

201 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 2; Magazine; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 7421 words

HEADLINE: Pro-Life Nation

BYLINE: By Jack Hitt. 
Jack Hitt is a contributing writer. He has written for the magazine on a number of topics, including the availability of abortion in the United States.

 BODY:
It was a sunny midafternoon in a shiny new global-economy mall in San Salvador, the capital city of El Salvador, and a young woman I was hoping to meet appeared to be getting cold feet. She had agreed to rendezvous with a go-between not far from the Payless shoe store and then come to a nearby hotel to talk to me. She was an hour late. Alone in the hotel lobby, I was feeling nervous; I was stood up the day before by another woman in a similar situation. I had been warned that interviewing anyone who had had an abortion in El Salvador would be difficult. The problem was not simply that in this very Catholic country a shy 24-year-old unmarried woman might feel shame telling her story to an older man. There was also the criminal stigma. And this was why I had come to El Salvador: Abortion is a serious felony here for everyone involved, including the woman who has the abortion. Some young women are now serving prison sentences, a few as long as 30 years. 
More than a dozen countries have liberalized their abortion laws in recent years, including South Africa, Switzerland, Cambodia and Chad. In a handful of others, including Russia and the United States (or parts of it), the movement has been toward criminalizing more and different types of abortions. In South Dakota, the governor recently signed the most restrictive abortion bill since the Supreme Court ruled in 1973, in Roe v. Wade, that state laws prohibiting abortion were unconstitutional. The South Dakota law, which its backers acknowledge is designed to test Roe v. Wade in the courts, forbids abortion, including those cases in which the pregnancy is a result of rape or incest. Only if an abortion is necessary to save the life of the mother is the procedure permitted. A similar though less restrictive bill is now making its way through the Mississippi Legislature. 
 In this new movement toward criminalization, El Salvador is in the vanguard. The array of exceptions that tend to exist even in countries where abortion is circumscribed -- rape, incest, fetal malformation, life of the mother -- don't apply in El Salvador. They were rejected in the late 1990's, in a period after the country's long civil war ended. The country's penal system was revamped and its constitution was amended. Abortion is now absolutely forbidden in every possible circumstance. No exceptions. 
 There are other countries in the world that, like El Salvador, completely ban abortion, including Malta, Chile and Colombia. El Salvador, however, has not only a total ban on abortion but also an active law-enforcement apparatus -- the police, investigators, medical spies, forensic vagina inspectors and a special division of the prosecutor's office responsible for Crimes Against Minors and Women, a unit charged with capturing, trying and incarcerating an unusual kind of criminal. Like the woman I was waiting to meet.
 I was on my sixth cup of coffee when I spotted my contacts -- two abortion rights advocates who work in the region and a local nurse who had heard this young woman's story. They entered the lobby surrounding another woman like Secret Service agents. A quick glance let me know that I shouldn't make a premature appearance. Even as I retreated to some large sofas, I could hear the Spanish flying -- words of comfort, of being brave, of the importance that others understand what is happening in El Salvador. At last the retinue approached. I was not quite ready for what I saw. The woman, I had been told, lived in a hovel in a very poor part of the town. Somehow that had put a certain picture in my head. I don't know, call it sexism. I just didn't expect to see a tall and strikingly beautiful woman with the kind of big grin that could very well appear in one of those full-page ads you might see in an airline magazine inviting people to ''Vacation in El Salvador!''
 We chatted briefly about the one thing I knew we had in common -- malls -- before we went up to a quiet hotel room, where she and I could talk. One intermediary acted as our interpreter. I agreed to call her by her initials, D.C.; she is afraid to be identified by name, though she did agree to be photographed. (While it was impossible to confirm every detail of her story, I did later see legal records that corroborated her description of events.) D.C. sat down, and now that we were ready to talk about her experience, she started to cry. She wiped her eyes several times with a paper napkin. She spent a few minutes folding and twisting it. D.C. crossed her ankles and stared down at the shrinking napkin, now tightly compacted into a large pill. Then she began to tell me her story. 
 I worked in a clothing factory two years ago. I have a son, 7 years old. Well, when I found out I was pregnant, I didn't know what to do. I told my friend. She told me if I was going to have it, I needed to think about that. I had a child already. I told the father. He said he didn't want another child. He didn't want to deal with problems like this. My mother told me she would kick me out if I ever got pregnant again.
 I started talking to my friend. Every day was so hard. I cried, and I didn't do anything. I didn't want to see anybody, and I didn't sleep. My friend told me to go to a man, and he gave me some pills. I was two months pregnant. He said that I could put them in my vagina. I did, and after that I just bled a couple of times. Two months more went by. I was still pregnant. I cried and didn't know what to do. When I was about four months along, my friend told me one of her friends lived near a house where there was a woman who did abortions. I felt so worried. I didn't know what to do, whether I should go talk to the woman. But then one day, I went. 
 With the signing of the Chapultepec Agreements in Mexico in 1992, El Salvador's civil war came to an end. As the nation turned away from its violent years, there were calls from both sides of the political divide that it was time to re-examine certain social issues. One of them was abortion. The country's abortion law, like the law in most Latin American countries at the time, was already a near-ban with only a few exceptions, specifically in cases of rape, serious fetal malformation and grave risk to the mother's life. For decades, the law was rarely discussed, and enforced quietly and somewhat subjectively. Once the issue was raised in the political arena, though, Salvadorans discovered that a brand-new kind of discourse on abortion had emerged in Latin America. 
 In El Salvador, a mostly Catholic country, abortion first surfaced as a potent political issue in 1993, when conservative members of the Assembly proposed that Dec. 28, the Catholic Feast of the Holy Innocents, be declared a national day to remember the unborn. In 1995, the FMLN -- the former guerrilla force that had transformed itself into the country's main left-wing party -- supported a very different proposal in the National Assembly. The proposal addressed a variety of women's issues, including domestic violence and rape. It also contained a provision to extend the abortion exceptions to include cases in which the mother's mental health was threatened, even if her life was not. This liberalizing proposal was rejected, but it provoked a debate, which in turn had the effect of raising the political heat around the subject of abortion. 
 Also in 1995, Pope John Paul II appointed a new archbishop for San Salvador, Fernando Saenz Lacalle. Archbishops in El Salvador inherit a potent history. During the civil war, many members of the clergy in El Salvador were proponents of liberation theology, a liberal -- some would say radical -- evangelical doctrine of social justice. The movement was despised by the country's right-wing leaders. In 1980, in a hospital chapel, Archbishop Oscar Arnulfo Romero, a proponent of liberation theology, was shot and killed by a right-wing death squad while celebrating Mass. His replacement, Arturo Rivera Damas, was also a supporter of liberation theology. 
 The pope's appointment of Lacalle 11 years ago brought to the Archdiocese of San Salvador a different kind of religious leader. Lacalle, an outspoken member of the conservative Catholic group Opus Dei, redirected the country's church politics. Lacalle's predecessors were just as firmly opposed to abortion as he was. What he brought to the country's anti-abortion movement was a new determination to turn that opposition into state legislation and a belief that the church should play a public role in the process. In 1997, conservative legislators in the Assembly introduced a bill that would ban abortion in all circumstances. The archbishop campaigned actively for its passage. 
 ''The ban was part of a backlash,'' I was told by Luisa Cabal, the legal consultant for Latin America at the Center for Reproductive Rights, an abortion rights organization based in New York. The proposed bill, Cabal said, was a result of ''the church's role in pushing for a conservative agenda.'' With the archbishop's vocal support of the ban and conservative groups fully energized, opposition soon became difficult. Any argument in favor of therapeutic abortion was met with a religious counterargument. 
 Julia Regina de Cardenal runs the Yes to Life Foundation in San Salvador, which provides prenatal care and job training to poor pregnant women. She was a key advocate for the passage of the ban. She argued that the existing law's exception for the life of the mother was outdated. As she explained to me, ''There does not exist any case in which the life of the mother would be in danger, because technology has advanced so far.'' De Cardenal was particularly vehement in responding in print to her opponents. As she wrote in one Salvadoran newspaper column in 1997, ''The Devil, tireless Prince of Lies, has tried and will continue to try to change our laws in order to kill our babies.''
 Positions on the strengthened ban essentially split along party lines, at least at first. ''The majority of our leadership came out in opposition,'' Lorena Pena, an FMLN representative in the Assembly, told me. But the FMLN held only a minority of the seats in the 84-member Assembly, and they were unable to stop the bill. The proposal to ban all abortions passed the Assembly in 1997 and became the law of the country in April 1998. 
 ''But that was not enough,'' de Cardenal later wrote in an article recounting the victory. In 1997, her foundation also proposed a constitutional amendment that would recognize the government's duty to protect life from the time of conception. 
 A proposed constitutional amendment in El Salvador has to pass two important votes. It must be accepted by a majority in one session of the Assembly and then, after a new election, ratified by a two-thirds vote in the next Assembly. During the first vote, in 1997, FMLN legislators stood against the amendment, but they were outvoted, and the amendment passed the first round.
 In January 1999, as the issue headed toward the second vote in the Assembly, Pope John Paul II visited Latin America. ''The church must proclaim the Gospel of life and speak out with prophetic force against the culture of death,'' he declared in Mexico City.''May the continent of hope also be the continent of life!'' De Cardenal says that the pope's visit re-energized supporters of the constitutional ban. As the vote neared, her group rolled out a series of radio ads in favor of the amendment and presented legislators with a petition of more than 500,000 signatures. At one demonstration, members of the group sprinkled the National Assembly with holy water. To punctuate her campaign, de Cardenal arranged to have two pregnant women come to the Assembly and have ultrasounds publicly performed on their fetuses.
 The leadership of the FMLN, afraid that the party would be trounced in the coming elections if they were on the record as opposing the amendment, freed its deputies from their obligation to follow the party's position and urged them to vote with their consciences. When the final vote was taken, the amendment passed overwhelmingly. 
 The legislative battle and its outcome did not escape the attention of leaders of anti-abortion groups in the United States. Rev. Thomas J. Euteneuer, the head of Human Life International, based in Virginia, is intimately familiar with the campaign in El Salvador and says that there are lessons for Americans to learn from it. For one thing, as Euteneuer sees it, the Salvadoran experience shows that all moves to expand abortion rights are pushed through by ''elite'' institutions of government (the U.S. Supreme Court, for example); by contrast, Euteneuer contends, when the laws are tightened, a grass-roots campaign is inevitably responsible. ''El Salvador is an inspiration,'' he told me recently, an important victory in what he called ''the counterrevolution of conscience.''
 Today, Article 1 of El Salvador's constitution declares that the prime directive of government is to protect life from the ''very moment of conception.'' The penal code detailing the Crimes Against the Life of Human Beings in the First Stages of Development provides stiff penalties: the abortion provider, whether a medical doctor or a back-alley practitioner, faces 6 to 12 years in prison. The woman herself can get 2 to 8 years. Anyone who helps her can get 2 to 5 years. Additionally, judges have ruled that if the fetus was viable, a charge of aggravated homicide can be brought, and the penalty for the woman can be 30 to 50 years in prison. 
 D.C.: When we got to the woman's house, there was so much disorder. It was all a mess. We talked, and she felt my stomach and said: ''Yeah, I can do it. Come back in four days.'' I asked how she would do it, and she said, With a probe. 
 On that day, I came in and was told to lie down. It was not even a bed. There was just so much disorder. She asked me to take off my clothes, and she put a shirt on me. She came with a piece of cloth and put it underneath my nose, and I felt a little numb. She came back with a long wire, like a TV antenna. It was not like a doctor's instrument. It was just a wire tube with another wire inside it. She put some oil on it and told me to breathe deeply. 
 She put it in. And she was scraping around. I was supposed to be asleep. But I felt pain. I told her it hurt. She said, ''Yeah, we're almost done.'' But she kept scraping around, and I said: ''No, no, stop. It's hurting me.'' Then she said, ''It's done.'' 
 She said I would have a fever and I should not go to the doctor or they would report me. That night everything was O.K. So I went to sleep.
 ''Back-alley abortion'' is a term that has long been part of the abortion debate. In the United States, in the years since Roe v. Wade, it has come to seem metaphorical, perhaps even hyperbolic, but it happens to conjure precisely D.C.'s experience. And it's easy in El Salvador to find plenty of evidence that D.C.'s story is neither isolated nor the worst case. A report by the Center for Reproductive Rights offers this grim list of tools used in clandestine abortions: ''clothes hangers, iron bars, high doses of contraceptives, fertilizers, gastritis remedies, soapy water and caustic agents (such as car battery acid).'' That list is meant to disgust a reader in the same way that imagery of mangled fetuses is meant to when employed by those who oppose abortion. But the criminalization of abortion in the modern age, in El Salvador at least, is not so simple as a grim return to the back alley. For the most part, the new law has not resulted in a spike in horror stories of painful and botched clandestine procedures.
 To begin with, when a woman might face jail time for an abortion, she's less likely to discuss her pregnancy at all. According to a study on attempted suicide and teen pregnancy published last year by academics at the University of El Salvador, some girls who poison their wombs with agricultural pesticide (its efficacy being a Salvadoran urban legend) would rather report the cause of their resulting hospital visit as ''attempted suicide,'' which is not as felonious a crime nor as socially unbearable as abortion. ''They don't want to be interviewed about abortion,'' Irma Elizabeth Asencio, one of the study's authors, explained to me. ''They know they have committed a crime.''
 Abortion as it exists in El Salvador today tends to operate on three levels. The well-off retain the ''right to choose'' that comes of simply having money. They can fly to Miami for an abortion, or visit the private office of a discreet and well-compensated doctor. Among the very poor, you can still find the back-alley world described by D.C. and the others who turn up in hospitals with damaged or lacerated wombs. Then there are the women in the middle; they often rely on home-brewed cures that are shared on the Internet or on a new underground railroad that has formed to aid them.
 ''I keep two telephones in my purse,'' I was told in San Salvador by one woman who wished not to be identified because her work is illegal. I'd heard of her through an abortion rights advocate, and I asked to meet her in person. ''One phone is for work and personal matters,'' she went on to explain in fluent English. ''The second one is for the other thing.'' Although she doesn't work directly in women's health care, her job keeps her traveling and in contact with people working for health groups and women's rights groups who do outreach throughout the country. ''I would estimate that there are about 20 people who are working in different and specific places who have this phone number,'' she said. They pass it along when they think it is necessary. 
 And so when the phone rings, she has to decide whether the woman seeking an abortion is legitimate or not. On occasion, she has turned off the phone after a suspicious call. ''You need to be careful, especially when the people who call are young people,'' she said. ''One day they think one thing and the next day another thing. And they know your information.'' Her practice is first to find out the crucial facts of the pregnancy; then, if she decides she's willing to help, she calls a doctor she knows who lives in a neighboring country. 
 ''When I'm calling the doctor, I never say on this telephone, 'Someone needs an abortion,''' she told me. ''Rather, I might say, 'We have a situation here.' When we talk about the details, like how many weeks along she is, the doctor might ask me, 'What time is it?' I might say it's 8 o'clock, meaning the patient is eight weeks along.'' After all the details are worked out in code, the doctor flies in. The abortion -- usually nonsurgical -- is performed without charge. 
 ''No one ever learns the doctor's name or where she's from,'' she said. 
 A doctor who works this underground circuit also agreed to meet me and discuss abortion. She seemed terrified the entire time we spoke. She constantly glanced around the cafe where we had coffee with an interpreter. She ended every paragraph with a plea not to reveal any details that might identify her. But she said she wanted to explain how abortions are done in El Salvador. Most women with some education or access to the Internet quickly learn about misoprostol, she said. It is an ulcer drug that, when inserted in the vagina, can provoke contractions and cause bleeding that looks, in an emergency room, just like a miscarriage.
 ''I show people how to put the misoprostol in and tell them that when they go to the hospital just to say, 'I started bleeding,''' this doctor explained. ''There is no way that can be detected.'' The only problem, she went on to say, was that ''some women go right to the hospital when there's initial staining.'' Then, if a doctor or nurse finds a half-dissolved pill during a pelvic exam, they are obliged to call the police. 
 According to nearly a dozen doctors and nurses I interviewed in San Salvador, there has been a decline in the incidence of harrowing coat-hanger/pesticide-type abortions in the time since the law was passed. (No official national statistics were available.) But the doctors I spoke to also noted -- again, anecdotally -- that there were still consistent numbers of pregnant women coming to the hospital with unexplained bleeding. The consensus was that more and more women were learning about misoprostol. In El Salvador, misoprostol is sold under the name Cytotec. Type that word alongside ''abortion'' into Google, and it becomes apparent that the old back alley of witch doctors with coat hangers could be deserted soon, replaced by online dealers peddling ulcer drugs.
 In some ways, D.C.'s personal story is a transitional tale between an old world and a new one. She apparently tried the misoprostol abortion but got the wrong information about the dosage. Her later desperation and confusion about how the drug worked is what drove her, at last, into the house of a traditional back-alley abortionist. 
 D.C.: At 2 a.m., I started to shake. I had a fever and convulsions. My mama came, and I told her I was cold. She put more clothes on me. The next day I was fine and went to work. I started to feel bad pain but kept working. That night another fever came, and shaking. Mama said she was taking me to the doctor, and I said no. That night I began to convulse again and the pain was stronger. I didn't go to work the next day. I went to the bathroom and bled heavily. 
 Two days later, on Friday, even my hands and feet were hurting. My kid was sick, he had a cold. I took my son to the doctor, who asked if it was me who was there to see him. I said it was my child, and he said, ''You're yellow, like hepatitis.'' Then I was crying because he touched me on the stomach and liver and it hurt a lot. He asked me if I was sure I was O.K. because I looked bad. When I left the clinic, I couldn't walk. My sister went to look for a cab.
 Several days later, I was back at the doctor. They did some tests and called an ambulance. At the hospital they asked me what I had. I didn't want to say. I said I felt bad. They did tests on my urine, blood and lungs and found I had a severe respiratory infection. They did an ultrasound and found my kidneys, lung and liver were infected. And the ultrasound showed something else. They asked me: ''Why do you have a perforated uterus? What have you done?'' Then they did a vaginal exam, and it was the most painful thing for me in the world. They put something in me, and I cried out. They had two doctors holding me down. They said they knew I had had an abortion because my uterus was perforated and big and they would have to operate immediately. All I remember was going to the operating room, and then I don't remember anything because for the next six days I was in a coma. 
 ''When we get a call from a hospital reporting an abortion,'' said Flor Evelyn Topez, ''the first thing we do is make sure the girl gets into custody. So if there is not a police officer there, we call the police and begin to collect evidence.'' Topez is a prosecutor in the district of Apopa in San Salvador, a part of town noted for its poverty, crime and gang violence. She is a compact and tense woman. She wears a beautiful silver cross around her neck with smaller matching crosses for earrings. Her hair is pulled into a tight narrow bun across her head, held in place by small plastic flowers. Her gaze beams from steady eyes, each haloed in cobalt mascara. 
 Nationwide, after the ban came into effect in 1998, the number of legal cases initiated nearly doubled, according to a study published in 2001 by the Center for Reproductive Rights. Today the number of abortion cases investigated each year averages close to 100, according to Luz McNaughton and Ellen Mitchell, policy consultants with Ipas, an abortion rights advocacy group in Chapel Hill, N.C., who gathered the statistics for a study to be published later this year by the American Journal of Public Health. In 2004, the most recent year for which any statistics are available, there were 93 investigations of people associated with a clandestine abortion. In 2003, there were 111 investigations; in 2002, there were 85. (El Salvador's population is 6.5 million, roughly that of Massachusetts.) The vast majority of charges are brought against the woman or the provider. In a few cases, the boyfriend or mother or someone else who has helped out is also charged. Typically, the woman can avoid prosecution altogether if, after she is arrested, she names the provider. 
 When the woman is first detained, the form of custody can vary. Wandee Mira, an obstetrician at a hospital in San Salvador, told me that she had seen ''a young girl handcuffed to her hospital bed with a police officer standing outside the door.'' In El Salvador, a person accused of a major crime is typically held in jail in ''preventative detention'' until the trial begins. Topez, who said she had prosecuted perhaps 10 or 15 abortion cases in the last eight years, said that she took the severity of the case into account and sometimes argued for ''substitutive measures instead of jail,'' like house arrest, while the accused was awaiting trial. My impression was that Topez was emphasizing such relative leniencies as house arrest instead of detention, as well as suspended sentences for women who report the abortionist, because, like most people, she was uncomfortable with the inevitable logic that insists upon making a woman who has had an abortion into a criminal. Even Regina de Cardenal, whose group was instrumental in passing the ban, could not quite square the circle. 
 ''I believe the woman is a victim,'' de Cardenal told me. ''The criminals are the people who perform the abortions.'' When pressed about the fact that the law she helped pass does treat the woman as a criminal, she said: ''Yes, it's part of the law of our country. Because the woman has murdered her baby -- and that's why she is sent to jail. But I believe that the woman who is sent to jail remains a victim of the abortion doctor, the abortionist, who knows exactly what he is doing.''
 In the United States, this conundrum is only beginning to emerge, as it did on ''Meet the Press'' in October 2004, when Tim Russert, the host, asked Jim DeMint, a South Carolina Republican representative then in the middle of what turned out to be a successful campaign for the U.S. Senate, to explain his position in favor of a total ban on all abortion procedures. DeMint was reluctant to answer Russert's repeated question: Would you prosecute a woman who had an abortion? DeMint said he thought Congress should outlaw all abortions first and worry about the fallout later. ''We've got to make laws first that protect life,'' he said. ''How those laws are shaped are going to be a long debate.''
 Russert refused to leave the congressman alone. ''Who would you prosecute?'' he persisted. 
 Finally DeMint blurted, ''You know, I can't come up with all the laws as we're sitting right here, but the question is, Are we going to protect human life with our laws?''
 In El Salvador, the law is clear: the woman is a felon and must be prosecuted. According to Topez, after a report comes in from a doctor or a hospital that a woman has arrived who is suspected of having had an abortion, and after the police are dispatched, investigators start procuring evidence of the crime. In that first stage, Topez has 72 hours to make the case to a justice of the peace that there should be a further investigation. If enough evidence is collected, she presents the case before a magistrate to get authorization for a full criminal trial before a judge. 
 During the first round of investigations, police officers interview the woman's family and friends. ''The collecting of evidence usually takes place where the events transpired -- by visiting the home or by speaking with the doctor at the hospital,'' Topez said. In some cases, the police also interrogate people who work with the woman. Topez added that that didn't happen very often because, she said, ''these are women who don't work outside the home.'' (Indeed, the evidence suggests that the ban in El Salvador disproportionately affects poor women. The researchers who conducted the Journal of Public Health study found that common occupations listed for women charged with abortion-related crimes were homemaker, student, housekeeper and market vendor. The earlier study by the Center for Reproductive Rights found that the majority were domestic servants, followed by factory workers, ticket takers on buses, housewives, saleswomen and messengers.)
 As they do in any investigation, the police collect evidence by interviewing everyone who knows the accused and by seizing her medical records. But they must also visit the scene of the crime, which, following the logic of the law, often means the woman's vagina.
 ''Yes, we sometimes call doctors from the Forensic Institute to do a pelvic exam,'' Topez said, referring to the nation's main forensic lab, ''and we ask them to document lacerations or any evidence such as cuts or a perforated uterus.'' In other words, if the suspicions of the patient's doctor are not conclusive enough, then in that initial 72-hour period, a forensic doctor can legally conduct a separate search of the crime scene. Topez said, however, that vaginal searches can take place only with ''a judge's permission.'' Topez frequently turned the pages of a thick law book she kept at hand. ''The prosecutor can order a medical exam on a woman, because that's within the prosecutor's authority,'' she said. 
 In the event that the woman's illegal abortion went badly and the doctors have to perform a hysterectomy, then the uterus is sent to the Forensic Institute, where the government's doctors analyze it and retain custody of her uterus as evidence against her.
 D.C.: After I came out of the coma, they moved me to the maternity hospital. My brother visited and asked me if the police had come to ask me questions. He said the police had come to our house and they had interrogated our relatives and neighbors. They had gone to where I worked. They asked everyone a lot of questions about me and who I was and if they knew whether I was pregnant and whether I'd had an abortion. 
 When I got home, the prosecutor came to see me, and he asked lots of aggressive questions. He talked to me like I was a criminal. I didn't want to answer because I was scared. He said if I didn't answer, even though I was in bad physical shape, he would put me in jail. He wanted me to tell him who the father of the child was and the name of the person who had done this to me. I didn't know her name. Then he made a date for me to come to the prosecutor's office.
 Doctors in El Salvador now understand that it is their legal duty to report any woman suspected of having had an abortion. Abortion rights advocates point out that Salvadoran law also spells out a conflicting responsibility: the doctor's duty to keep the patient's medical information confidential. What this blurring of medical and legal obligations means, in practice, is that doctors have to choose for themselves what to do. The result is a country in which some doctors eagerly report women, some eagerly search for loopholes to avoid having to report and some simply want to stay out of trouble. 
 ''Many doctors are afraid not to report,'' says Mira, the obstetrician I spoke to. This fear is heightened for doctors, she explains, by the fact that nurses also have a legal duty to report abortion crimes but are often confused about their obligation of confidentiality. So doctors are afraid that the nurses will report them for not reporting. ''The entire system is run on fear,'' Mira said. 
 One morning, I got permission to hang out all day at Hospital Nacional de Maternidad, a large public hospital in San Salvador, and talk with doctors there. Somehow the Salvadoran government learned of my visit, and the federal Ministry of Health dispatched an ''escort'' to accompany me the entire day. The chief of the OB/GYN residents was Carmen Vargas, a young doctor with a fondness for eyeliner and lipstick. Like that of many doctors in El Salvador, her sense of the whole issue is that, regardless of what she might think personally, the law obligates her to turn women in. In the last year or so, she reported one young woman herself and was present when another was reported. For Vargas, the cases were pretty cut and dried. ''When we see physical evidence, we are required to report,'' she explained, ''because the doctor and the institution can be charged.''
 The physical evidence in a case can be supported by other clues. Vargas said that in medical school she read in a gynecological textbook, published in the late 1990's in Chile, that the doctor should listen carefully to the patient's story. If the woman is ''confused in her narrative,'' Vargas said, that could well indicate that she'd had an abortion.
 Vargas offered me an example. ''Last year, in March, we received a 15-year-old who came referred from a hospital in an outer area,'' she said. ''She had a confused patient history. She had already been operated on and had a hysterectomy and had her ovaries taken out. She was in a delicate state, on respiratory assistance in intensive care. The doctors there said they had seen a perforation in the space beneath the cervix.
 ''This was around Eastertime last year, and the prosecutor's offices were closed,'' Vargas said. She had not seen any of the evidence herself, she said, but saw that the other doctors ''had tried to call the prosecutor's office, but it was closed. I came in, and on the chart what was pending was to call the police. So I called them.''
 Vargas remembered that the police interviewed her but asked only general questions. ''The hard part was when I was called as a witness,'' she said. ''That lasted a whole day. That was really ugly, and it was first time I ever testified. They asked me if I had noticed anything suspicious or if I had heard anything about the girl.''
 Vargas told the prosecutor that the girl's stepfather ''asked me not to call the prosecutor's office because it would be better for the girl if I didn't call.'' She fixed me with a look. ''I didn't think it was for the girl that he was asking me not to call.'' Vargas said her hunch was that the man was abusing his stepdaughter, and she said that she felt that she was doing the 15-year-old a favor by turning her in for felony abortion.
 ''It's a hard question as to whether I did the right thing,'' she said. ''I think part of it is not right, from the point of view that you can expose the life of the patient, and because it can cause women not to seek care. But at the same time, I felt I did the right thing. I suspect she was abused in her own house. I felt like it was helping her get away from a possible bad situation.''
 As it happened, I located this particular patient, who resolved her case without going to jail. Two of the activists I met made contact with her by cellphone. At first, the family agreed that I should meet this young woman, but at the last minute the stepfather intervened. He said he didn't think his stepdaughter should tell her story. After that, no one answered our calls.
 D.C.: At the prosecutor's office, I met a woman. She said if I talked, I might have a chance to stay free. She said there was no worse punishment than that I couldn't have any more children. So why not talk? Why defend this person? So she gave me another date to come back and talk. I told my mama, but she said that if I told them who the woman was, the woman could take revenge on my family. I didn't know what to do. But I decided to stay free and so I told her everything. 
 I went back to work, and everybody knew what I had done because the police had come. I was scared because I didn't know what they would say about me. A lot of people wouldn't talk to me, but some people said: ''Here's my little girl! My little girl has come back!'' I felt good. They loved me and they said, ''It was a mistake, and everybody makes mistakes.''
 Later the prosecutor called again and told me I would need to go to court and hear from the judge whether I would be free or go to jail.
 A policy that criminalizes all abortions has a flip side. It appears to mandate that the full force of the medical team must tend toward saving the fetus under any circumstances. This notion can lead to some dangerous practices. Consider an ectopic pregnancy, a condition that occurs when a microscopic fertilized egg moves down the fallopian tube -- which is no bigger around than a pencil -- and gets stuck there (or sometimes in the abdomen). Unattended, the stuck fetus grows until the organ containing it ruptures. A simple operation can remove the fetus before the organ bursts. After a rupture, though, the situation can turn into a medical emergency.
 According to Sara Valdes, the director of the Hospital de Maternidad, women coming to her hospital with ectopic pregnancies cannot be operated on until fetal death or a rupture of the fallopian tube. ''That is our policy,'' Valdes told me. She was plainly in torment about the subject. ''That is the law,'' she said. ''The D.A.'s office told us that this was the law.'' Valdes estimated that her hospital treated more than a hundred ectopic pregnancies each year. She described the hospital's practice. ''Once we determine that they have an ectopic pregnancy, we make sure they stay in the hospital,'' she said. The women are sent to the dispensary, where they receive a daily ultrasound to check the fetus. ''If it's dead, we can operate,'' she said. ''Before that, we can't.'' If there is a persistent fetal heartbeat, then they have to wait for the fallopian tube to rupture. If they are able to persuade the patient to stay, though, doctors can operate the minute any signs of early rupturing are detected. Even a few drops of blood seeping from a fallopian tube will ''irritate the abdominal wall and cause pain,'' Valdes explained. By operating at the earliest signs of a potential rupture, she said, her doctors are able to minimize the risk to the woman.
 One doctor, who asked to remain anonymous because of the risk of prosecution, explained that there are creative solutions to the problem of ectopic pregnancies: ''Sometimes when an ectopic pregnancy comes in, the attendant will say, 'Send this patient to the best ultrasound doctor.' And I'll say, 'No, send her to the least-experienced ultrasound doctor.' He'll say, 'I can't find a heartbeat here.' Then we can operate.''
 This doctor also told me that there are ways to avoid reporting an abortion. ''I can only say what I saw when I examined the patient,'' the doctor said. ''If I can see lacerations or cuts, I cannot say what that means if the patient says, 'I have done nothing.' I can describe what I saw, but I cannot say she has or has not had an abortion.'' 
 The doctor pondered a hypothetical situation: ''If the patient says, 'Yes, I did it, but please keep that between us'?'' There was a pause. ''I keep that promise. The confidentiality right is more important than the legal duty to report.''
 D.C.: A month later, I got my exact court date. I spent the day crying and crying. I took the bus from work to the court. I didn't tell my mom where I was going because she would want to come. I didn't know what was going to happen. I just told one friend, and she was waiting for me. I got there, and the judge began the proceeding, and he said I would go free, that what they were going to do was look for the person who had done this to me and that I had no reason to go to jail. I was so happy, so very happy.
 In prosecutors' offices in El Salvador, as in prosecutors' offices anywhere, longer sentences are considered better sentences. ''The more years one can send someone away for,'' I was told by Margarita Sanabria, a magistrate who has handled several abortion cases, ''the better it is for the prosecutors.'' She cited this motivation to account for what she has observed recently: more later-term abortions being reclassified as ''aggravated homicide.'' If an aborted fetus is found to have been viable, the higher charge can be filed. The penalty for abortion can be as low as two years in prison. Aggravated homicide has a minimum sentence of 30 years and a maximum of 50 years. 
 The issue of proving viability after an abortion is a tricky one, of course. There is no legal standard. But many of the people I talked to in El Salvador, including Topez, the prosecutor, said there was a rule of thumb: if an aborted fetus weighs more than 500 grams, or a little more than a pound, then you can argue that the fetus was viable. When I mentioned this to Judge Sanabria, she said she wished she had known more about the rule before. She recalled one case, that of a 20-year-old mother named Carmen Climaco, whose abortion of a fetus estimated at 18 weeks had been recast by the prosecutor as aggravated homicide. The judge admitted that if she had known this rule of thumb, she might not have sent the case to trial. ''I feel bad about it,'' she said. 
 But the case did go to trial, and the prosecutor won a conviction for aggravated homicide. At trial, the evidence included lifting Climaco's fingerprints from the fetus, which was found under her bed. The prosecutor's accusation was infanticide by strangling. 
 The women's prison where convicted murderers are sent is in the outer district of Tonacatepeque. I visited it in January. It's an old, creaky facility that inspires the kind of dread that comes of seeing concertina wire and much-painted cinder blocks, made all the creepier by a paint choice of baby-boy blue. Inside the first gate is a neutral area. It's filled with almond trees that provide a flickering shade on a hot winter afternoon. All the women are kept in a deeper jail, walled off inside. Through a small window, I could see an open area crisscrossed by laundry lines and arrayed by different women lying around smoking. 
 I was there to see Carmen Climaco. She is now 26 years old, four years into her 30-year sentence. She has three children, who today are 11, 8 and 6 years old. We talked about them for a while. Since she was the only person in the family who worked, her children's financial situation is precarious; they now stay with their grandmother. Climaco said she lives for their visits, which are brief and come only twice a month. She was dressed in red jeans and a white polo shirt. We sat with an interpreter in the half-shade in green plastic yard chairs. Climaco had a paper napkin with her that she folded and folded into a familiar-looking pill. She had light brown hair, and occasionally a smile steadied her trembling lips. 
 ''I became pregnant at a time when my smallest child was in the hospital,'' she said. ''I never thought I could get pregnant because I had been sterilized. Suddenly I saw two doors shutting at the same time. There was nothing I could do. My mother said she'd toss me out of the house if I got pregnant.''
 Her story came out in fits and starts. She said that she was innocent and had never done anything illegal. Then she said, ''I keep asking God to pardon me for what I've done.'' She said that the day it happened, she felt dizzy and collapsed at home. She woke up covered in blood. ''I stood up and it felt like something fell out of me.'' It took her a while to understand just what had happened. ''I put my hand on its throat to see if it was moving,'' she said, ''which is why my fingerprints were found on its neck.''
 I spent the better part of an hour watching Carmen Climaco's face, listening to her whimpering pleas to Jesus Christ for forgiveness and tiny prayers to me to believe in her innocence. Like anyone serving time in prison, she has inhabited the details of her story to the point that they no longer sound true or false. She has compressed her story into a dense, simple tale of innocence -- she just woke up covered in blood -- to hold up against the public accusation of baby-strangling. I kept looking at her face, incapable of seeing the innocent girl she described or the murderer the prosecutor sent to prison. The truth was certainly -- well, not in the ''middle'' so much as somewhere else entirely. Somewhere like this: She'd had a clandestine abortion at 18 weeks, not all that different from D.C.'s, something defined as absolutely legal in the United States. It's just that she'd had an abortion in El Salvador.


CORRECTION-DATE: January 7, 2007

 CORRECTION:
An article in The Times Magazine on April 9 reported on the effects of laws that make all abortions illegal in El Salvador. One case the article described was that of Carmen Climaco, who is serving a 30-year prison sentence in El Salvador. 
 The article said she was convicted in 2002 of aggravated homicide, and it presented the recollections of the judge who adjudicated Ms. Climaco's case during the pretrial stage. The judge, Margarita Sanabria, told The Times that she believed that Ms. Climaco had an abortion when she was 18 weeks pregnant, and that she regretted allowing the case to be tried as a homicide. The judge based her legal decision on two reports by doctors. 
 The first, by a doctor who examined Ms. Climaco after the incident, concluded that she had been 18 weeks pregnant and had an abortion. A second medical report, based on an examination of the body that was found under Ms. Climaco's bed, concluded that her child was carried to term, was born alive and died in its first minutes of life. 
 The three-judge panel that received the case from Judge Sanabria concluded that the second report was more credible than the first, and the panel convicted Ms. Climaco of aggravated homicide.
 The Times should have obtained the text of the ruling of the three-judge panel before the article was published, but did not vigorously pursue the document until details of the ruling were brought to the attention of editors in late November.
 A picture caption with the article also misstated the facts of the ruling. Ms. Climaco was sentenced to 30 years in prison for a case that was initially thought to be an abortion but was later ruled to be a homicide; she was not given 30 years in prison for an abortion that was ruled a homicide.
 Ms. Climaco is now preparing to appeal her conviction. The Times is continuing to investigate the case.

GRAPHIC: Photos: D.C. had a so-called back-alley abortion in El Salvador. She wound up in the hospital -- and in court.
The Doctor: Carmen Vargas, chief of OB/GYN residents at a maternity hospital in San Salvador. ''When we see physical evidence,'' she says, ''we are required to report.''
The Judge: Margarita Sanabria, a magistrate who has handled several abortion cases. ''The more years one can send someone away for, the better it is for the prosecutors,'' she says.
 The Incarcerated: Carla Herrera, 11, clutches pictures of her mother, Carmen Climaco (right, holding Carla's brother at his baptism). Climaco was given 30 years for an abortion that was ruled a homicide. (Photographs by Donna Ferrato for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (92%); WOMEN (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (88%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (86%); SEX OFFENSES (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); SENTENCING (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); VIOLENT CRIME (73%); FELONIES (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); PRISONS (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); FORENSICS (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (66%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); SHOE STORES (57%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (50%) Abortion; Abortion

PERSON: Jack Hitt

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) EL SALVADOR (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%) El Salvador

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



202 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 4; Magazine; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 4540 words

HEADLINE: Not Far From Forsaken

BYLINE: By Richard Rubin. 
Richard Rubin is the author of ''Confederacy of Silence: A True Tale of the New Old South.'' He last wrote for the magazine about the Emmett Till case.

 BODY:
It is as you imagine it: Vast. Open. Windy. Stark. Mostly flat. All but treeless. Above all, profoundly underpopulated, so much so that you might, at times, suspect it is actually unpopulated. It is not. But it is heading there.
In our national consciousness, America is a land of perpetual growth. But for the past half-century or more, much of the middle of the country has been slowly, quietly emptying out. A few people left, then more and more, until it started to resemble an organized exodus. For a while, it looked as if the area might indeed one day resemble the Great American Desert it was mistakenly labeled on early maps.
 That didn't happen. At some point, throughout middle America, the population hemorrhage stopped, bottomed out.
 But not here, in North Dakota. North Dakota has continued to lose people. And it didn't have that many to begin with. In 1930, its population peaked at 680,845. In 2000, it was down to 642,200, and by 2004, the last year for which statistics are available, it had dropped to 634,366. (By comparison, the national population more than doubled, to 294 million from 123 million, during the same period.) Of the 25 counties nationwide that lost the largest portions of their populations in the 1990's, 12 were in North Dakota. 
 Statistics are ethereal. For tangibles, all you have to do is drive the long, straight roads in the northwestern part of the state, the ones that run roughly parallel to the old railroad tracks and the Canadian border: Highway 5, Highway 50, U.S. 2. You won't pass many cars; depending upon where you're driving, and when, you may not pass any at all for a half-hour or more. What you will pass, in no small numbers, are the things left behind in the exodus: Abandoned houses. Empty stores. Churches without congregations. Community buildings gone dark. Closed schools, never to reopen.
 Wry North Dakotans have suggested that such sights are now so common that they should perhaps be represented in the state seal. All of them, that is, except for the schools. No one jokes about those. Empty houses and stores and community halls and even churches are signs of a fading past; empty schools are signs of a fading future.
 But even as the American small town continues what often seems like an irresistible decline, some in northwest North Dakota are mounting a resistance, an organized effort to draw people -- new people, young people, families -- to their small towns. And a few have taken things even further by reviving, in a fashion, the very institution that generated them in the first place: homesteading.
 In 1862, Abraham Lincoln signed into law the Homestead Act, which ultimately gave away 270 million acres of American land, one 160-acre parcel, or ''quarter section,'' at a time, to virtually anyone who agreed to build a permanent dwelling on it and spend at least five years living there and otherwise ''improving'' it. The act took effect at midnight on Jan. 1, 1863; the first claim was filed a few minutes later. But it would be another 40 years before people started homesteading in earnest in northwest North Dakota. When they did, the greatest number of them came from Norway, where, folks like to say, the soil was also frozen and the neighbors were also distant. This is true, but that didn't make homesteading any easier, not here. People, a lot of them, froze to death or starved or died of some ailment en route to the nearest doctor, who was often a day's ride away or more. A lot more perceived at some point that their choices came down to leaving or dying. They chose to live and left. The majority of those who filed claims did not last long enough to ''prove up'' those claims.
 But some did. They stayed, they farmed, they married and started families and subsisted, and some of them even thrived. Towns sprang up, their locations usually chosen by the railroads, which sometimes chose their names too. People opened shops. They built churches and schools and, often, good community-oriented Scandinavians that they were, music halls and dance halls and fellowship halls and opera houses.
 In 1862, when the Homestead Act was passed, a quarter section was considered to be about as much land as a farmer could be reasonably expected to work alone, given the state of technology. It wasn't easy, but people managed to live off that quarter section. Farmers grew wheat as a cash crop and raised chickens and cows and hogs to feed themselves. Loyd Olin, a farmer who is now 90 and lives in Crosby, N.D., can recall a time when ''there was someone here on every quarter'' -- that is, when every quarter section in the area had a different family living on it and off it. He was one of them, raised on land homesteaded by his parents. The years of his youth, the 1920's, are seen today as North Dakota's golden era, a time when towns grew and prospered, when the opera houses actually had operas and the dance halls were packed on Saturday nights, when the schools were full of children and every town had an amateur baseball league and when a lot of them had movie houses and newspapers and doctors and dentists and when the bigger ones like Crosby, the seat of Divide County, had several groceries and mercantile stores, several car dealerships and farm-implement dealerships and banks and several competing grain elevators.
 Then came what Olin calls the ''dry years,'' the decade commonly known here as the Dirty 30's. The drought that produced the Dust Bowl farther south hit North Dakota too, and many farmers who survived the first hard years of homesteading could no longer hang on. ''That's when so many people left here,'' Olin says. ''You could buy a quarter of land for six, seven hundred dollars. But there was no banks to borrow money from.''
 Those who could somehow get the money bought the quarters their neighbors gave up on, consolidating them into much larger farms that, with more modern technology, could be worked in the same time, at the same cost, as a much smaller farm. Producing a larger crop at a lower cost, they were able to sell it for less and thus drive down prices for everyone else. Eventually, it became impossible for a farmer to survive on a quarter section. Those who couldn't expand left; those who stayed bought up the abandoned acres and enlarged their own farms further, forcing prices even lower. As the cycle continued, the population plummeted. In 1930, the population of Divide County was 9,636. By 2004, it had fallen to 2,208, a decline of 77 percent.
 That was when David Olson, Divide County's director of economic development, hit upon an idea that he hoped might reverse that trend before it was too late. Olson discovered that the town had assumed ownership of five housing lots for back taxes; what if, he thought, instead of selling them at auction, the town of Crosby gave the lots away to people who would move there, build houses on them and stay a while, maybe longer? Not as a bribe, really, or even much of a financial incentive, since the lots were not worth much, but rather, as Olson explains, ''more of a nice gesture, to welcome people.'' Yet something else was already going on in the area, and it soon infused those five little nice gestures with a mission: to entice young people from other parts of the country to pick up and move to northwest North Dakota, settle down, start families and fill those empty schools again.
 In 2002, a few businessmen and civic boosters got together and founded the Northwest North Dakota Marketing Alliance. It was formed in the belief that the region -- with the exceptions of Minot, the state's fourth-largest city and home to a major Air Force base, and Williston, a town of about 12,000 -- was in danger of someday emptying out entirely and that the best way to prevent that would be to attract young men and women from other parts of the country, young men and women who would fall in love with the land and the people and the lifestyle and put down roots here and create a new generation, and future generations, of northwest North Dakotans.
 For the first year or so, that idea was about all they had. Then in 2003 Steve Slocum joined the effort. Slocum, who is 52, was born in Montana but grew up in Williston and is as fervent and tireless an ambassador for North Dakota as you are likely to meet. Marketing is Slocum's game -- he works as a marketing director for a local bank in Williston -- and he felt he had a great product to sell. People who see northwest North Dakota for the first time, he says, ''are blown away by the average-guy-on-the-street hospitality.'' The product, he says, ''is the people -- it's the sense of community.''
 Bernie Arcand, who is 58 and works for a telecom company in Ray, N.D., a town of about 500 some 35 miles northeast of Williston, agrees. North Dakotans, he says, are ''superfriendly, to where you say they're borderline nosy. A real tight sense of community.'' And even though he says so in his capacity as secretary of the Marketing Alliance -- an unpaid position, like every other one in the organization -- you need only spend a day or two in the area to see that he may, in fact, be understating the case. While there is no scientific apparatus for measuring such a thing, northwest North Dakotans might just be the friendliest people in America. It is rare, very rare, to pass someone on the road without receiving at least a finger wave, regardless of whether or not they have ever seen you or your car before. A stranger walking down the street of a small town will not only be smiled at but also approached and actually engaged in genuine conversation. And a stranger stopping into a small-town bar will be hailed instantly as an honored guest, even after he explains that he only came in to use the restroom.
 So why would anyone ever leave? ''It's a great place to raise your kids,'' Arcand says. ''But once the kids are graduated from college, there are no dang jobs for them.'' And the prospects of attracting large companies, the kind that might create a few hundred jobs and help lure those kids back home, are, he says, pretty poor, for a reason that should otherwise be a point of great pride. ''Our unemployment rate is so low'' -- 3.4 percent statewide, among the lowest in the nation -- ''if I were a businessman, I'd be reluctant to invest millions in a company here, knowing that there's no one to hire here.''
 This, then, is the problem: you have a great place with a lot to offer -- clean air, good neighbors, low cost of living, very little crime, great pheasant hunting, etc. -- but no jobs. How, then, do you get someone to move there? And not just any someone -- not, for instance, only retirees, some of whom, drawn by those same selling points, have already come. How do you attract the folks you really want, young people who will start families?
 If you view it that way -- that is, as a problem of long-distance, special-circumstance matchmaking -- the most logical place to turn is the Internet. And so in 2003 Slocum helped create PrairieOpportunity.com, a new kind of online personal -- State Seeks Residents.
 ''Do you have what it takes to be a 21st-century pioneer?'' the home page asks. ''Odds are,'' it continues, ''you are not a candidate for NW North Dakota. You have succumbed to the cities. All of your pleasure must be provided, and you gladly stand in long lines to receive them. But if you are one of those who is wondering what they are doing in that line, continue on.'' That page links to another, titled ''What It Takes,'' which is really just a list of selling points like ''We have front doors that are usually locked only at night or while on vacation'' and ''We have businesses that know your first name and use it'' and ''We have milk cartons without pictures of children.'' But, as another page warns: ''This is a very tough and unforgiving country to be waltzin' in because you are fed up with traffic. . .you need to make sure you can pay your bills without relying on NW North Dakota to provide you with an income. We have very low unemployment, and the folks up here expect everybody to pull their own weight. To support this philosophy, our convenience stores have the little penny bowls by their tills with a small sign by them reading: 'If you need a penny, help yourself. If you need two pennies, get a job.'''
 The Web site lists 86 eligible towns and communities in northwest North Dakota, though by its own accounting nearly half of them are either unincorporated or ghost towns. Visitors to the site are invited to fill out and submit a questionnaire. Slocum says the site typically attracts about 20 ''good'' e-mail inquiries a week.
 It is tough to say, exactly, how many families have actually picked up and moved to northwest North Dakota since all this began. There are no statistics, only anecdotes, and very few of those. Steve Slocum can list a few families, but even he gets a little fuzzy on whether all of them have actually moved to the area or merely intend to at some point. One thing he can tell you, though, with certainty and pride: a family from out West has moved to and is starting a business up in Crosby, the town where they're giving away the free land. What's more, that family, the Oehlkes, didn't even take advantage of that offer. That, they will tell you, is not why they came.
 Shawn Oehlke is 44 and grew up outside Chicago; his wife, Esther, is 46 and hails from Long Island. After a stint working for Boeing in Albuquerque, Shawn, an Air Force veteran with a technical background, decided to strike out on his own someplace where the costs of living and doing business would be much lower, the lifestyle much less frenetic. Esther stumbled upon PrairieOpportunity.com, and after a few phone calls, the Oehlkes decided to visit. They had planned to look at four small towns; Crosby, with about 1,050 residents, was by far the largest. They went there first and liked it so much they never bothered with the other three.
 The Oehlkes shared their plans with Olson and Divide County's Economic Development Council: they were going to start a company, SEO Precision, that would design and build electro-optic mechanisms, primarily for military applications. The E.D.C. was thrilled, acquired a 16,000-square-foot building in the middle of town -- an old J.C. Penney, built in 1917 -- so they could to lease it to the Oehlkes and, as Esther recalls, said all the right things. ''We were told, point-blank, by one of the town leaders, 'We have three banks and all the money you need.''' They were, she says, ''very persuasive.''
 And so in August 2004 the Oehlkes packed up and moved, with their two school-age sons, from New Mexico to North Dakota. They turned the old department store's massive basement into Shawn's lab and workshop and assumed management of the rest of the building. The ground floor now has a community room with a television, a kitchen and wi-fi, a tech center where locals can take computer classes and commercial space that houses a clothing boutique, a tanning salon and a coffee bar. The second floor has eight apartments, only two of which were already rented out -- one of them by David Olson, who is 30 and a bachelor -- when the Oehlkes arrived; they rented out the others within a month and lived in one themselves until they bought a house on the edge of town. None of this may sound particularly revolutionary, but the Oehlkes are pioneers no less than the old homesteaders, and they know it. ''What we're realizing,'' Esther says, ''is we're probably the only ones from out of state who've come here to try and prove the experiment.''
 How that experiment is turning out is a matter of some dispute. Throughout northwest North Dakota, folks with ties to the marketing alliance cite the Oehlkes as a great success story, even though most have never met them. The Oehlkes, however, have their doubts. Sometimes, in fact, they feel downright frustrated. The banks, they say, have not come through with all the loans they promised and are, the Oehlkes perceive, holding them to much more rigorous standards than they apply to natives; town and county committees that were supposed to approve tax credits and variances have dithered or, worse, failed to meet at all. By last November, Esther was so discouraged that she wrote an open letter to the town that was published in The Journal, Crosby's weekly newspaper. ''Is Crosby's existence important?'' she asked. ''Are you interested in seeing it survive and grow? We heard that North Dakota wanted small businesses, and to attract their young people back to the local towns.. . .So we believed you.'' She lamented: ''We're happy to be here, but some of you, even those of you in decision-making positions that affect the future of the town, aren't happy we're here.. . .Meetings put off, lack of vision in planning ahead, burdensome regulations that are used arbitrarily, counting cost instead of counting value -- these are why businesses and people leave this town.''
 Steve Andrist, the publisher of The Journal, finds himself caught in the middle of the debate. ''I'm acutely aware that there are people who are an impediment to progress,'' he says. ''I think they're in a minority. If I thought they were a majority, I'd leave myself.''
 Andrist, who is the third generation of his family to run the paper -- his father represents the area in the State Senate -- actually did leave Crosby for nearly 20 years. He graduated from Divide County High School in 1972, left for college, then spent a decade and a half working as a reporter and editor outside the state, mostly in Minnesota, which seems to draw a lot of people from North Dakota. He returned in 1991 with a different perspective and a wife who grew up elsewhere in the Midwest. This last fact is perhaps what enables him to understand why so many non-Crosbyites see the place as isolated (it's 6 miles from the Canadian border, 70 from the nearest American McDonald's or Wal-Mart, 120 from the nearest shopping mall), insular and clannish. Asked if his wife is now regarded by natives as a Crosbyite, he replies, candidly: ''I think she is to the people who are important to her. And I think she'd have a hard time fitting in with other people.''
 As for the Oehlkes, Esther says that the response to her open letter has been mostly positive, although she also received critical letters that she characterizes as ''Survival, yes. Crosby wants survival. But no growth.'' Their feelings for the town, however, are far from ambivalent. Asked if they'll stay, both respond, without hesitation, ''Oh, yes.'' Esther adds, ''I'd do it again.'' She and Shawn say again and again how much they love Crosby and its people. They have found what they sought here: Small Town America.
 And yet, in doing so, they have exposed the paradox at the heart of this transaction. On the one hand, what towns like Crosby are actually selling -- really, all they have to sell -- is atmosphere, an idyllic image of a place and a way of life most Americans believe is already gone. On the other hand, if these places are truly successful in attracting new people, that atmosphere will, necessarily, change.
 Despite the unease that paradox engenders here, Crosby's real choice is not between growth or stasis; it is between growth or decline and, ultimately, death. For his part, Loyd Olin says: ''I think it'll get smaller. Of course, you don't like to see it, but then what are you going to do?''
 Those in Crosby who want a glimpse of what their future may hold should they choose to do nothing need only drive 12 miles west on Highway 5 to the town of Ambrose. Founded in 1906, Ambrose was the first county seat and once bore the nickname the Queen City of Divide County. The ''W.P.A. Guide to North Dakota,'' first published in 1938, recounts that Ambrose ''in its early history was one of the greatest primary grain markets in the Northwest. With 5 elevators, and many hawkers buying on the track, as many as 300 grain wagons often crowded the streets.'' In 1920, Ambrose's population was 389. As of 2004, it was 23.
 Forty-two miles south and west of Ambrose, you'll find Hanks, N.D. Once upon a time, according to the W.P.A. guide, as many as 30,000 cattle used to pass through Hanks in a single season on their way to Chicago. Hanks was founded in 1916; in 1926, the town claimed a population of 300. And in 1991, that number was down to 11, and Hanks voted itself out of existence.
 To be more precise, the citizens of Hanks voted 7-2 to unincorporate (two residents abstained). The vote, like many previous elections, was held in Lloyd and Avis Kohlman's kitchen and merely confirmed what everyone in town had known for years: Hanks was finished. It is a story that had been playing out quietly for years in scores of towns across the state, but Hanks garnered a little bit of attention by making it official. To the residents, it only made sense: incorporated towns have certain obligations and responsibilities -- they need mayors and city councilmen and city auditors and election judges and election clerks -- that are difficult to fulfill when the whole town doesn't have a dozen people in it. Still, the dissolution caught a lot of people by surprise. ''North Dakota made it very easy to incorporate a town, but very difficult to dissolve one,'' explains Richard Stenberg, a history professor at Williston State College.
 By 1991, Lloyd Kohlman had served on Hanks's town board for decades; Avis had been city auditor since 1953. They raised two sons there, both of whom ended up in Williston -- Roger as a pharmacist, Dennis as a high-school teacher. At a certain point, Dennis says, all the young people left Hanks. ''If you weren't involved in farming, there was nothing else,'' he explains.
 Dennis is 65 now. When he was a child, he recalls, Hanks still had about 150 people. ''It's just been a gradual decline all along,'' he says. ''Mostly, it's just been that people have gotten old and passed away.'' That would include his parents, who stayed on in Hanks until they died, two days apart, in June 2004. Their deaths reduced the local population to 1.
 Hanks sits on Highway 50 in northern Williams County. It is six miles west of the community of Zahl, where the population, according to an informal census, is 8; back in the 1920's, 250 people lived there. Seven miles west of Hanks is the town of Grenora -- its name is a contraction of Great Northern Railroad, a branch line of which terminated there -- with a population of 195, down from a peak of 525. Grenora still has a functioning school and a few stores and shops and a grocery and a cafe and a bar and even a credit union, but despite that, and the fact that it's the biggest town for more than 40 miles, it just doesn't look like the kind of place that will be around that much longer.
 Hanks, on the other hand, doesn't really look like a ghost town, at least not from a distance. Many of its houses appear well kept, as does its old school, which now houses a museum, albeit one that's open only in the summer and then only by appointment. ''It'll be closed here not too long,'' Dennis Kohlman says, ''like everything else.'' It is painful to compare this Hanks with the town Dennis's father first saw as a child. ''When we came here in 1921,'' Lloyd Kohlman told The Williston Daily Herald 70 years later, ''there wasn't room for another business on Main Street.'' Today, Main Street is overgrown; you wouldn't be able to find it at all unless someone who knew showed you where it used to be. The stores have all been torn down or carted off, used for storage or lumber. Only the old State Bank of Hanks building, weather-beaten and crumbling, still stands -- and next to it, an old red gasoline pump.
 The only person left in Hanks is Debra Quarne. She lived there as a child, moved to Montana when she was 10 and then returned in 1981 and moved into her grandmother's old house; it was built in 1914 by a man named Alfred Karlson, who dug out the basement by hand. There were no usable springs in Hanks -- the groundwater was too high in salt and nitrates -- so people hauled in their water from other towns and kept it in basement cisterns. ''You can imagine what it was like hauling that water when it was 18, 20 degrees below zero,'' Quarne says. In 1991, shortly before the town unincorporated, the other residents asked her if she wanted to be mayor. She declined.
 Still, she stayed after everyone else left or died. Asked what it's like to be the only person left in Hanks, Quarne, who raises horses, says: ''Quiet. You got to stock up on groceries. You get snowed in, it could be four days before someone gets you out.'' She says she likes the seclusion but admits: ''It's sad. It is, you know.''
 In 1991 Avis Kohlman told The Herald: ''We don't have anything anymore. We don't have a church. Everything is gone.. . .We aren't on the map because we don't have a post office. So you kind of lose your identity.'' After she and Lloyd died, her son sold their house. ''I had a hard time with that,'' he confesses. ''But I didn't want it to end up like that place,'' he adds, gesturing at the old bank. He is not sure what the buyer, a man in Williston, plans to do with it; the house next door, once the home of a family named Rodvold, is now being used by others from Williston as a hunting lodge.
 The railroad branch line that gave birth to Hanks and Zahl and Grenora and nearly a dozen other towns shut down in 1998; the company even pulled up its tracks. Hanks, everyone agrees, will never come back. ''It'll never be anything more than it is now,'' Kohlman says.
 ''And the same thing'll happen to Grenora,'' Quarne adds.
 ''It'll just take a little longer,'' Kohlman concludes. And that, he says, is just the surface view of things. ''Our perception of what a small town is has changed,'' he says. ''Today, Williston is a small town. Just like our perception of small farms has changed. It used to be one quarter. Today, 10 quarters is a small farm.''
 Professor Stenberg agrees. And when it comes to predictions, he says the area will either redefine itself and rebound or it will be ''last one out, shut the lights off.'' Like many other people in the area, he's doggedly optimistic. Or at least he wants to be. But pressed to say what he thinks northwest North Dakota's small towns are going to look like in 20 or 50 years, he sighs and answers: ''I don't think they're going to be there. There may be a historic marker there, but that's it.''
 Tourism, which has been a savior of sorts for so much of rural America in decline, has never been as big in North Dakota as it has been elsewhere; the least-visited state in the nation, North Dakota's biggest draws are sites that Lewis and Clark passed through 200 years ago. But folks who are nostalgic for Small Town America might want to consider taking their next vacation in northwest North Dakota, where, if they visit soon, they can see such places before they disappear forever, where they can walk the streets and chat with the few folks who remain and drop in on quaint little establishments like the Centennial Bar in Grenora, where they happen to serve excellent hamburgers. Get one while you still can.


GRAPHIC: Photos: American Exodus: An abandoned house just outside Corinth on Highway 42 in northwest North Dakota. Staying Put: From left: Debra Quarne of Hanks. David Olson, director of economic development. Main Street in Crosby. Loyd and Janice Olin of Crosby.
Left Behind: Another house that is no longer a home, this one on Highway 42 near Corinth. Moving On: The railroad first brought life to northwest North Dakota
 now those trains that still have tracks have fewer reasons to stop. (Photographs by Eugene Richards for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (91%); POPULATION DECLINE (76%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); LEGISLATION (68%); STATISTICS (67%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (62%) Population Shifts

PERSON: Richard Rubin

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%) South Dakota

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



203 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFFICE SPACE: THE BOSS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: Diplomacy Over Diplomas

BYLINE: By KLAUS PETER LOBBE; As told to Claudia H. Deutsch.

 BODY:
I'D always expected that I'd get a doctorate degree and end up running a big company. I reached that end through very different means. Along the way, I found out what it is like to be a high school graduate surrounded by Ph.D.'s. 
 I was born in Berlin in 1946, just after the war. Berlin was a bombed-out, rough place. I grew up in the American sector, and the American soldiers always seemed to be a protective, friendly presence. But I still have pictures in my head of the airlift of 1948-49, the long queues of people waiting for food and something to drink. 
When I was about 12, we moved to Mannheim, across the river from BASF headquarters. I went to high school, fully expecting to study economics at the university and then to get a position of responsibility at an international company like BASF or Siemens. But then my father died, and I had to take care of my mother. University was out; my dream was destroyed. 
 I applied for a two-year commercial training program that BASF ran for people without university degrees. It was pure survival of the fittest. There were 20 of us in the program; only 10 of us were offered jobs. I made it through, and got a sales job in one of our core organic chemistry groups. 
 I was surrounded by Ph.D. chemists who thought their products were so good they could sell themselves. I figured the highest I could ever rise was middle management, tops. But slowly I realized I had skills that don't come from books: I dealt easily with people, and I had a flair for marketing.
 I decided I wouldn't just push products at customers. I would find out what new products our customers would like us to produce, and I would persuade the chemists to develop them. 
 So I set about teaching myself chemistry. I made friends with production people and lab technicians, and I studied chemistry books on weekends. Part of it was ego. I wanted to show those Ph.D.'s that we commercial guys weren't dumb, and that customers found integrity and reliability just as important as book knowledge. But a bigger part was wanting to be able to explain to customers how our products could make their products better.
 I was successful, and in 1975 I was sent to Japan to develop BASF executives there. I was up against real culture differences. Our Japanese colleagues liked their BASF salary, but they did not want to do anything to hurt Japanese competitors like Mitsui or Mitsubishi. 
 I didn't speak Japanese, they didn't speak German, but we all spoke enough English for me to make it clear that their careers depended on our getting market share from competitors. I taught them that it was not impolite to ask for an order. But I also learned from them. We'd have meetings where everyone talked about mistakes they'd made, so no one else made the same one. In Germany, admitting mistakes is not exactly supportive to your career. 
 I went back to Germany in 1979 and got promoted up through lots of jobs. In 1993 I was named head of our global industrial chemicals division, and for the first time, most of the people who reported to me were university-trained. By then it no longer bothered me. I knew the chemists didn't need my help running their labs. But I knew how to listen to customers and to create and price products to meet their needs. 
 When I moved to the United States in 2002 to head up the BASF subsidiary here, I used the same techniques. We went from a $500 million loss in the U.S. in 2001 to more than $1 billion in profit last year. 
 I'm still surrounded by college graduates. My wife has a university degree in graphic design. And since 2000 I've been a member of the BASF Wine Commission, a group of six people who find good wines and sell them at cost to employees and friends. This is not a profit center; it's just been part of the BASF culture for decades. And yes, four of the six have university degrees.

KLAUS PETER LOBBE
Chairman and chief executive, the BASF Corporation

AGE
60

FAVORITE FOODS
Sushi and sashimi

WHAT HE DRIVES
A Mercedes. ''I had a Cadillac, but I've returned to the reliable German car.''

HOME
Morris Township, N.J.

FAVORITE CITY
New York, but not as a place to live.


GRAPHIC: Photo: KLAUS PETER LOBBE

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); CHEMISTRY (88%); CHEMICALS (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (77%); MARKET SHARE (76%); SALES & SELLING (71%); SALES FORCE (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); NEW PRODUCTS (63%) Biographical Information

COMPANY: SIEMENS AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Basf Ag

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (56%); SIE (LSE) (56%); SIE (FRA) (56%); SIE (BIT) (56%); SI (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: Klaus Peter Lobbe; Claudia H Deutsch

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%) MANNHEIM, GERMANY (53%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



204 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1517 words

HEADLINE: Like the Fund. Love the Fund Company.

BYLINE: By DANIEL GROSS

 BODY:
THE stock market rose in each of the last two years -- and climbed again in the first quarter of 2006 -- so mutual fund shareholders have been doing quite well. But shareholders of the companies that own and manage mutual funds have generally been doing much better. 
 Matt Snowling, an analyst at Friedman, Billings, Ramsay, follows a basket of six mutual fund companies: Federated Investments, Franklin Resources, Janus Capital, Legg Mason, T. Rowe Price and Waddell & Reed Financial. The group rose 22 percent last year, he said, and 8.9 percent in the first quarter this year, far ahead of the broader indexes, he said.
And over the last three years, several mutual fund companies have provided stellar returns. According to Morningstar Inc., the stock of Legg Mason, for example, has returned about 58 percent, annualized, since March 2003, while the comparable figure is 44 percent for T. Rowe Price and 49 percent for BlackRock, a bond specialist. 
 In most instances, the stock gains have been greater than those notched by the families of mutual funds they offer. Indeed, ''over the past 20 years, you have been better off owning the asset management companies than owning their services,'' said Don Phillips, a managing director at Morningstar in Chicago.
 The comeback for mutual fund stocks has been an unlikely one. The industry had tremendous growth throughout the 1980's and 1990's. At the beginning of this decade, mutual funds were a $7 trillion industry whose products could be found in half of all households in the United States. But the juggernaut hit a brick wall in 2001 and 2002, as fund companies were pummeled by the brutal bear market. In some parts of the industry, investigations into practices like late trading resulted in much negative publicity, as well as costly settlements and new regulations. And investors began to turn to low-cost alternatives like index funds and exchange-traded funds.
 But since the markets bottomed out, fund companies have been thriving, because of three major factors. 
 First, as the stock market returned to health, cash began to flow back in. Net inflows to stock, bond and hybrid mutual funds were $216 billion in 2003 and $210 billion in 2004, nearly double the figures from 2001 and 2002, according to the Investment Company Institute, the mutual fund trade group.
 FOR the industry, which collects fees as a percentage of assets under management, the combination of high inflows and rising markets is a double blessing. ''If the market does well, their assets under management increase two ways: through appreciation and new flows,'' said Craig Woker, associate director of equities research at Morningstar.
 Companies with a broad range of highly ranked funds in hot areas have done the best. Mr. Snowling of Friedman, Billings, Ramsay rates Franklin Resources in San Mateo, Calif., whose Templeton unit is one of the largest international mutual fund families, as a buy.
 Franklin Morton, senior vice president for portfolio management at Ariel Capital Management of Chicago, said that international funds ''typically bring in the highest fees for a mutual fund company.'' 
 T. Rowe Price has also benefited from having a diversified portfolio of solidly performing funds. Of the group, ''the stock of T. Rowe Price has the most upside, due to broad diversification between equity and growth, fixed income and money market, some international,'' said Michael Carrier, an analyst at UBS. On a five-year basis, he added, almost 90 percent of its funds outperform their peers in the database of Lipper, the fund tracker. 
 Second, despite higher costs imposed by regulatory issues and pressure to reduce fees, operating margins for mutual fund companies are still remarkably healthy. Mr. Snowling says fund companies have operating margins of 30 percent to 35 percent, more than twice the rate for the typical company in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. 
 Mr. Phillips of Morningstar said: ''If you can get to critical mass, say $50 billion or more, the asset management business is a tremendous business. The marginal cost of letting another shareholder in the fund is next to nil, so every additional dollar that comes in is extremely profitable.'' 
 If a fund's assets rise to $6 billion from $3 billion, the fees it collects will double while its costs rise minutely. 
 Analysts also cite a third factor in keeping mutual fund stocks buoyant: mergers and acquisitions. In February, Merrill Lynch, the Wall Street giant, agreed to sell its mutual fund assets to BlackRock in exchange for a minority stake of just under 50 percent -- a deal that propelled BlackRock's highflying stock even higher. And last year, Legg Mason traded its brokerage unit to Citigroup for Citigroup's asset management business. ''A number of the smaller asset management firms have performed well, because some investors believe that there might be more consolidation to come,'' said Mr. Morton of Ariel Capital Management. 
 Janus Capital, which specializes in growth and technology stocks, has benefited from all three factors. ''The Nasdaq, where their funds have been more concentrated, has been doing well, and cost-reductions programs have helped boost their profit margins,'' said David Anthony, senior securities analyst at the Argus Research Corporation in New York. Last fall, with Janus's stock at about $19 a share, its management hired Morgan Stanley to advise it on a potential management-led buyout. The speculation about a potential acquisition helped to push the stock higher, to $23.17 a share at the end of March, up more than 66 percent from a year ago. 
 So what's not to like? For one thing, buying mutual fund companies instead of mutual funds deprives investors of the benefits of diversification. ''These are good companies, but I prefer to use their underlying funds,'' said Vern Hayden, a certified financial planner at the Hayden Financial Group in Westport, Conn., who manages portfolios of mutual funds. ''I just think chances for long-term growth are significantly better with a diversified portfolio like a mutual fund than with a fund company.''
 What's more, mutual fund companies are effectively leveraged bets on the markets. Both earnings and multiples -- the amount that investors are willing to pay per dollar of earnings -- expand when the market is doing well, as it has for the last two years. But when the market performs poorly, as it did in 2001 and 2002, asset values decline, investors pull money out and earnings multiples contract. That hits mutual fund stocks with a triple whammy.
 Mr. Carrier, the analyst at UBS, noted that in the last 12 months, price-to-earnings multiples on asset management companies have expanded to about 21 from around 16. ''Historically, over the past 15 years, 21 times has been at the top of the range,'' he said. ''So on a valuation perspective, the group is relatively expensive.'' Calamos Asset Management, whose stock at the end of the first quarter was worth more than twice its value at its October 2004 initial public offering, traded at about 30 times earnings on March 31. 
 Investors may also want to be wary of buying at a time when the S.& P. 500 is at a five-year high. Historically, Mr. Morton of Ariel said, ''the best time to buy mutual fund stocks is when the markets aren't doing so hot.'' He said that Ariel began to accumulate shares of Janus in the fall of 2002, when it had plummeted to about $12 a share, from $55 in late 2000. Ariel is now the largest single holder of Janus stock, with about 14 percent of the company.
 Mr. Morton said that his firm had also bought shares of T. Rowe Price after the stock market crash of 1987, when asset managers were out of favor. He said T. Rowe Price, which went public in 1986, has been the second-best long-term performer of all 1986 offerings, after Microsoft.
 Mr. Morton and several other analysts recommend holding on to Janus and to other asset managers, despite their comparatively high prices. They say that the trends propelling the industry's recent growth seem to be intact. As baby boomers age and as more defined-benefit pension plans are terminated or frozen, more investors may well be turning to mutual funds for retirement savings. ''I think the mutual fund product itself is certainly here to stay,'' Mr. Snowling said.
 Brian Reid, chief economist at the Investment Company Institute, said that the proportion of households that hold mutual funds had remained steady for the last few years, at about 50 percent. Even so, mutual funds are gaining market share. By sifting through data from the Federal Reserve, Mr. Reid concludes that mutual funds' share of household financial assets -- apart from homes -- is around 20 percent, up from 19.5 percent in 2004 and 18 percent in 2000. 
 The trends and economics of the business make it likely that the strong performance of mutual fund companies will continue through 2006. As for the stocks, investors should remember the same caveat that accompanies virtually every mutual fund advertisement: history is no guarantee of future performance.


GRAPHIC: Photos: E. Stanley O'Neal, the chairman of Merrill Lynch, which agreed to sell its mutual fund assets to BlackRock. The deal sent BlackRock's highflying stock even higher. (Photo by David Karp/Bloomberg News)(pg. 27)
 Laurence D. Fink, the chief executive of BlackRock. The company's stock has returned 49 percent, annualized, over the last three years. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. 35)Chart: ''Invest in the Fund, or Its Parent?''Over the last five years, the gains on stock in mutual fund companies have generally been much higher than the returns from the funds they offer.SELECTED MUTUAL FUND COMPANIESAverage annual returns on the shares of mutual fund companies . . .AS OF APRIL 5, 2006Blackrock88.77%: 1 YR49.42: 3 YR32.18: 5 YR. . . and on the funds they offerEQUITY FUNDS10.46%: 1 YR21.85: 3 YR3.84: 5 YRBOND FUNDS0.97 %: 1 YR3.35: 3 YR4.65: 5 YRLegg Mason61.18: 1 YR57.91: 3 YR35.91: 5 YR. . . and on the funds they offerEQUITY FUNDS9.33: 1 YR20.61: 3 YR8.97: 5 YRBOND FUNDS1.41: 1 YR4.95: 3 YR5.05: 5 YRJanus Capital Group66.52: 1 YR27.02: 3 YR-2.66: 5 YR. . . and on the funds they offerEQUITY FUNDS11.06: 1 YR18.30: 3 YR0.94: 5 YRBOND FUNDS1.78: 1 YR4.37: 3 YR5.13: 5 YRFederated Investors40.46: 1 YR17.09: 3 YR7.89: 5 YR. . . and on the funds they offerEQUITY FUNDS6.87: 1 YR16.78: 3 YR0.80: 5 YRBOND FUNDS2.27: 1 YR5.82: 3 YR6.06: 5 YRFranklin Resources37.79: 1 YR44.20: 3 YR20.71: 5 YR. . . and on the funds they offerEQUITY FUNDS9.51: 1 YR18.99: 3 YR6.36: 5 YRBOND FUNDS2.98: 1 YR5.32: 3 YR5.59: 5 YRT. Rowe Price Group33.20: 1 YR44.37: 3 YR22.10: 5 YR. . . and on the funds they offerEQUITY FUNDS10.83: 1 YR20.51: 3 YR5.80: 5 YRBOND FUNDS2.52: 1 YR5.08: 3 YR5.93: 5 YR(Source by Morningstar, Inc.)(pg. 35)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); FAMILY (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); INDEX FUNDS (78%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); DIVESTITURES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); EQUITY RESEARCH (71%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds; Stocks and Bonds; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Brokers and Brokerage Firms

COMPANY: JANUS CAPITAL GROUP INC (84%); MORNINGSTAR INC (83%); FRANKLIN RESOURCES INC (57%); WADDELL & REED FINANCIAL INC (57%); WADDELL & REED INC (57%); LEGG MASON INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Friedman Billings Ramsey Group; Federated Investors Inc; Franklin Resources Inc; Janus Capital Group Inc; Legg Mason Inc; Price, T Rowe, Co; Waddell & Reed Financial Inc; Merrill Lynch & Co Inc; Blackrock Investments; Citigroup Inc

TICKER: JNS (NYSE) (84%); MORN (NASDAQ) (83%); BEN (NYSE) (57%); WDR (NYSE) (57%); LM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: STAN O'NEAL (56%); LAURENCE D FINK (52%) Matt Snowling; Daniel Gross

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



205 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DIGITAL DOMAIN; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: Looking at the Free Market, and Seeing Red

BYLINE: By RANDALL STROSS. 
Randall Stross is a historian and author based in Silicon Valley. E-mail:ddomain@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
LOU DOBBS is a master of the sinister tease. Last month, he was in top form. Previewing a story, he told viewers of his nightly CNN newscast that when the State Department seeks secure network communications, it ''turns to Communist China,'' and thus renders the United States ''perhaps more vulnerable than ever.''
 The story turned out to be another Lou Dobbs exercise in bashing immigrants, or, more precisely, bashing a single immigrant: Lenovo, the PC maker originally based in China that last year acquired I.B.M.'s PC division and is now based in Raleigh, N.C. Lenovo recently won a competitive bid to sell the State Department $13 million worth of personal computers. Mr. Dobbs, like some politicians on Capitol Hill, suggests that those PC's could provide shadowy spooks in the Chinese government with an ideal means of conducting espionage.
Merely hinting at such a possibility is enough to hurt Lenovo's reputation. This is a potentially serious impairment in the highly competitive, commoditized PC business. What is happening to Lenovo, the most internationalized company in the industry, is a drive-by smearing. 
 Mr. Dobbs is not the only practitioner of the hit-and-run attack. In his segment about Lenovo he called upon Michael R. Wessel, a member of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, an advisory body to Congress. Mr. Wessel said that the State Department would use the Lenovo computers in offices around the world, potentially providing China access to ''some of our deepest secrets,'' a ''treasure trove of information they could use against us.''
 Mr. Wessel's segment was too brief to explain how China's agents would be able to grab hold of the machines to install the software for clandestine data transmission back to the party's Central Committee. The Lenovo desktops headed for the State Department will be assembled in facilities in North Carolina, not a People's Liberation Army compound in China. Also unexplained was how infected machines would meet General Services Administration security standards and get past the State Department's two computer security groups, which oversee the administration of their own test suites and install firewalls and other security software. 
 Last week, I spoke with Mr. Wessel to learn more about the basis for his alarm. It turned out that he was not able to describe how Chinese agents could gain access to the Lenovo machines, undetected, while they were being assembled. 
 When I asked why he thought the State Department's security procedures were inadequate, he suggested that he could not say because the State Department had been less than forthcoming with him. ''We don't fully know'' what the procedures are, he said. But when I asked him if he had requested information from the department about its protocols before he publicly voiced his concerns about the Lenovo deal, he said he had not.
 Larry M. Wortzel, the chairman of the security review commission on which Mr. Wessel serves, was even more animated in asserting that there were security risks in the Lenovo sale to the State Department. When I spoke with him, he professed to be mystified as to ''why the State Department would take the risk.'' What had the State Department told him about its security procedures? He, too, had yet to speak with anyone there; the commission's request for a briefing had been drafted but not yet sent.
 Both commissioners assume that Lenovo is managed by puppets whose strings are pulled in Beijing. Mr. Wessel said he was certain that ''a major portion'' of Lenovo was ''controlled by the Chinese government.'' State enterprises are placed in the hands of ''princelings,'' who are the children of government leaders, he began to explain before I interrupted. 
 Princelings installed at the meritocratic Lenovo? When I asked Mr. Wessel to identify a Lenovo princeling, he said, ''I haven't done a research of Lenovo.'' He said he had merely ''raised questions'' and had ''never purported to have answers.'' This was similar to the reply from Mr. Wortzel when he was asked to substantiate his allegations with details.
 The fact is that Lenovo is a living repudiation of the system that these critics assume it represents. It was born in 1984 from un-Communist entrepreneurial impulses among a group of Chinese computer scientists who wanted to start their own company. Their employer, the Chinese Academy of Sciences, gave them $25,000 in venture capital, and off they went. It was among the first Chinese companies to issue employee stock options. 
 The Academy of Sciences retains a minority ownership position, but so do I.B.M. and three American private-equity firms. The largest block of shares is owned by public shareholders. (Its shares are traded on the Hong Kong exchange.) Lenovo is headed not by a princeling but by an American, William J. Amelio -- a former senior vice president for Dell, as it happens.
 Perhaps the security concerns could be validated by an authority on China's military. I spoke with James C. Mulvenon, deputy director of the Center for Intelligence Research and Analysis, which is based in Washington and run by Defense Group Inc.
 Dr. Mulvenon said he had many concerns about China's state-sponsored espionage activities, but Lenovo was not on his list. He described the controversy about Lenovo as ''xenophobia and anti-China fervor dressed up as a technology concern.'' 
 Rob Enderle of the Enderle Group, a technology consulting firm in San Jose, Calif., said he also saw the criticism of Lenovo as lacking in substance. With an executive staff split between Chinese and Americans, Lenovo is the most global company in the PC industry, he said. The real story, he said, was that these critics were ''really torqued that China is out-executing the U.S.''
 Lenovo is an inviting magnet for all sorts of free-floating American anxieties about global competition. The visceral nature of these concerns can be seen in other remarks by Mr. Wortzel of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission. He said, ''As a taxpayer, I have a serious concern about why my tax money is spent on a computer made by a company owned by the government of the People's Republic of China.'' Why, he asked, couldn't the State Department place its order with a ''100 percent American-owned company''? 
 The cold-war template of us versus them, capitalist versus Communist, does not fit the geography of the globalized supply chain that underpins the computer industry. All players, even the ''100 percent American-owned'' vendors, have a major presence in China. Roger L. Kay, the president of Endpoint Technologies Associates, a consulting firm in Natick, Mass., said China had attracted so many companies based in the United States that the PC ecosystem there had reached a critical mass. Low-cost production is not the draw. ''Now the reason you want to be in China,'' he said, ''is because that's where everyone else is.''
 Wishing wistfully for a return to the past -- in which I.B.M. was still in the PC business -- is not likely to improve American competitiveness here and now. Mr. Enderle said that ignoring the discomfiting fact that technology companies based in the United States are losing leadership positions to their counterparts in east Asia -- not just China, but also Taiwan and South Korea -- does not make the problem go away. ''It's still going to hit us,'' he said.
 NEVERTHELESS, Mr. Dobbs and members of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission have tarred Lenovo with suspicion of espionage -- and the State Department with being their willing dupe. Mr. Kay says the damage to Lenovo has been done, even if the State Department purchase proceeds. 
 ''The next time,'' Mr. Kay predicted, ''the government bureaucrat will say: 'Do I want to go through this? No, I'll go with the company that is perceived as American.' '' 
 The smears will linger, he fears. ''Facts don't matter,'' he said. ''Perception matters.''


GRAPHIC: Photo (Illustration by The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (89%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (77%); FIREWALLS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); IMMIGRATION (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (75%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (65%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%) Computers and the Internet; Espionage; Intelligence Services; United States International Relations

COMPANY: LENOVO GROUP LTD (92%)

ORGANIZATION: International Business Machines Corp; Lenovo Group; State Department; Endpoint Technologies Associates

TICKER: 0992 (HKSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%)

PERSON: Randall Stross; Lou Dobbs; Roger L Kay

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%) China; China

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



206 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS: VOWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Campbell Brown and Dan Senor

BYLINE: By LOIS SMITH BRADY; Frank Bruni contributed reporting from Beaver Creek for this article.

 BODY:
WHEN Campbell Brown, a spunky-yet-shrewd weekend co-anchor of the ''Today'' show, and Dan Senor, a Republican strategist and Fox News analyst, first started dating, they seemed the way Andre Agassi and Steffi Graf once did: a surprising yet obvious couple. 
 ''There are some relationships where you have to readjust your eyes to the pairing,'' said John Dickerson, the chief political correspondent for Slate and a friend of Ms. Brown and Mr. Senor. ''It's like looking at an Escher print. You have to go, 'O.K., right, now I see how this might work.' I didn't go through that with them. I remember thinking, 'This makes total sense.' '' 
Friends describe Ms. Brown, who is 37 and who until last week had been on the short list of Katie Couric replacements, as both book smart and street smart. She grew up in a big Catholic family in Ferriday, La., full of hunters, politicians and good cooks. ''It was all about Cajun food and tight-knit families and big parties,'' said Ms. Brown, who has an ankle tattoo of a banana and spent her postcollege years as a Colorado ski bum. 
 Yet once she started covering television news in Topeka, Kan., it became clear she was ambitious. She eventually joined NBC, covering George W. Bush's 2000 presidential campaign, during which she became known among other things for expertly applying mascara just as the plane was landing. And she never tried to sneak back home to Washington for rest and relaxation. ''I came home once, to change my clothes from fall to winter,'' said Ms. Brown, who has been married and divorced. 
 Mr. Senor, 34, was born in upstate New York but grew up in Toronto, in a big Jewish family of passionate talkers and passionate cooks. Each evening, they spent hours in the dining room, surrounded by photos of family members who were all part of the conversations about the world and its politics. For them, ''extended family'' meant extended into the afterlife too. 
 After working for six years as a press secretary to Senator Spencer Abraham, Republican of Michigan, Mr. Senor got an M.B.A. at Harvard and then led -- and loved -- the cushy life of a venture capitalist. But when he was offered the job as spokesman for the Coalition Provisional Authority in Baghdad, it took him 60 seconds to accept, he said. For his first days on that job, he slept on the floor of a former palace of Saddam Hussein, taking showers with bottles of water. In March 2004, Ms. Brown appeared in the crowd of journalists covering one of his daily news conferences. She was doing a story on Abu Ghraib prison for NBC. Each was too busy tracking down information and drinkable coffee to get acquainted then. 
 But when Mr. Senor returned to Washington in 2004, she called him. ''I was wildly, wildly curious about his experience in Iraq,'' she recalled. Their first date was a group dinner, with Tom Brokaw and another journalist. They were all discussing Iraq while Ms. Brown and Mr. Senor flirted. ''There was clearly a lot of energy and electricity between us,'' Mr. Senor recalled. 
 Their early dates were like being on the campaign trail: full of debates and cheap food. ''We would mostly get sandwiches and sit in the park and talk,'' she said. ''We're both passionate about the Middle East. We never ran out of things to talk about.''
 Mr. Senor especially liked the fact that she could discuss serious subjects but not take herself seriously and that she had such a carefree attitude about her perfect-seeming appearance. ''A couple of months ago, she was subbing for Brian Williams, and she came home from work wearing this suit and the price tags were dangling from it,'' he said.
 He said he knew he wanted to marry her a few months after they started dating when he was waiting with an injured ankle in the emergency room of St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital. ''She just comforted me, and we waited and laughed and joked for hours,'' he said. ''That afternoon in the emergency room was one of my best dates ever.''
 He added that ''she makes me smarter; she makes me defend my views, which reminds me of home.''
 Ms. Brown, in a Vera Wang gown wed Mr. Senor last Sunday at the Beaver Creek Chapel in Beaver Creek, Colo. Before their guests arrived they signed a civil marriage certificate, marrying themselves under Colorado law. In the ceremony that followed, the couple vowed before 150 guests not only to stay together forever but ''to repair one small piece of the broken world.'' 
 Guests spoke later about how much the couple have in common. Whether they've been crying or sleeping on a plane, both can compose themselves quickly. Both have allowed friends going through divorces or unemployment to live on their couches for months. 
 ''It's the perfect meeting of hearts, minds and talking heads,'' said Richard Wolffe, senior White House correspondent at Newsweek and a friend.


GRAPHIC: Photos: BEAVER CREEK, COLO., APRIL 2: The couple and their guests outside the Beaver Creek Chapel, and in a limousine after the ceremony. (Photographs by Denis Reggie)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); FAMILY (87%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (77%); WRITERS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); SKIING (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); VENTURE CAPITAL (50%) Weddings and Engagements; News and News Media

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%)

PERSON: KATIE COURIC (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%) Lois Smith Brady; Campbell Brown; Dan Senor

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (65%); TOPEKA, KS, USA (54%) KANSAS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (65%) Beaver Creek (Colo)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



207 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL/2007 Honda Fit and Toyota Yaris; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1497 words

HEADLINE: Small but Tasty Portions For a Land of Gluttony

BYLINE: By CHERYL JENSEN

DATELINE: NEEDLES, Calif. 

 BODY:
ATTENTION, Americans: This is a test. Now that even President Bush has pronounced the nation ''addicted to oil,'' and even as hybrid-car sales boom while S.U.V.'s swoon, here come new opportunities to test your willingness to use less gasoline. You can now drive the latest wave of smaller, fuel-efficient vehicles, the so-called ''B class'' cars that are popular in most of the rest of the world.
 Two fine examples are the Toyota Yaris, which went on sale a few weeks ago, and the Honda Fit, which becomes available next week. Set aside any lingering pint-size prejudices -- these new subcompacts are not stripped-down penalty boxes like the economy cars of yesteryear. They are neither cramped nor bereft of creature comforts. They are even a bit stylish.
With prices in the $12,000 to $15,000 range, the Fit and Yaris -- along with Chevrolet's Korean-built Aveo, Nissan's coming Versa and redesigned small cars from Hyundai and Kia -- offer an alternative to gas gluttons, or simply a way to save some money. 
 To get acquainted with the new Honda and Toyota, I and my husband -- also an auto writer -- drove them back-to-back for two days across Southern California. We darted through bustling Santa Monica streets, along crowded Los Angeles freeways and up lonely two-lanes to Joshua Tree National Park. At night, we sped across the flats to Needles, near the Arizona border, before high-tailing it back to Los Angeles.
 The Fit and Yaris are new to America but familiar to much of the rest of the world. Honda introduced the Fit in Japan in June 2001. About six months later it went on sale in Europe with a different name, the Jazz. Now the Fit/Jazz has been redone for the American market, growing 6.6 inches longer to meet United States crash-protection standards. Tetsuya Nomura, the car's chief engineer, said the suspension was reworked to improve ride and handling.
 The Fit comes in one body style: a hatchback with four doors. The smallest and least expensive Honda car in America, it slots below the Civic (which has grown considerably over the years). The Fit is nearly 20 inches shorter and 3 inches narrower than the Civic, but it is 3.5 inches taller.
 The first-generation Yaris went on sale in Europe in 1999. Called the Vitz and the Platz in Japan, it was sold in the United States as the Echo, though with its odd-shaped high-set body it never found much of a following. The redesigned 2007 Yaris is longer, wider and much more stylish, and it has new mechanical underpinnings.
 Positioned below the Corolla, the Yaris comes as a two-door hatchback or a four-door sedan. The Yaris hatchback is 14 inches shorter than the Echo and about 20 inches shorter than the Yaris sedan. 
 Both the Yaris and Fit have 1.5-liter 4-cylinder engines, with the Fit rated at 106 horsepower and the Yaris at 109. Both come with five-speed manual transmissions, though the Fit we tested had the optional five-speed automatic; the Yaris had a four-speed automatic. 
 The cars look quite different. I preferred the Yaris, with its simple, rounded and calm lines. Visually, the Fit seemed busy. 
 To me, the Yaris's design edge continued inside. Toyota's finely textured seat fabric seemed more sophisticated than Honda's. The Yaris's center-mounted gauges looked cleaner and more modern than the Fit's stacked controls.
 In both vehicles, front occupants sit somewhat high, providing a good view down the road by small-car standards. But the Yaris's roof pillar impedes over-the-shoulder visibility.
 It didn't take long in the Fit to realize that Honda is one of the few automakers to master the art of electric power steering, which saves weight and improves fuel economy by using an electric motor instead of a hydraulic pump and hoses. While electric steering usually feels light and numb, the Fit's seemed natural. With just the slightest turn of the steering wheel, the Fit responded. The car felt playful and eager. 
 The Yaris was slower to react and felt softer and less agile over all, even though it is 225 pounds lighter than the Fit. But the Yaris's ride was smoother, with a suspension that did slightly better at isolating the driver from the knocks of broken pavement.
 Both test cars had 15-inch wheels and tires, although 14-inchers are standard. We tested the Fit Sport, but Honda said its suspension was tuned no differently than other versions.
 When it came time to slow down, the brake pedals of both cars were softer than I like, but I grew accustomed to them.
 While the two cars have small engines, their sophistication helps to compensate for their size. Still, there were times when merging onto a busy freeway, or trying to switch lanes, that I wished the cars had a bit more oomph. Once on the freeway both merrily cruised with the flow of traffic, at 75 to 85 m.p.h.
 The Fit's five-speed automatic transmission was a bit quicker to downshift than the Yaris's four-speed unit. Our Fit also had an entertaining feature: paddles behind the wheel let the driver upshift and downshift manually.
 Despite their size, these hatchbacks are models of functionality and flexibility. The Fit, with four doors, was far easier to load and unload than the two-door Yaris. 
 Toyota says the cargo capacity of both the Yaris hatchback and sedan is 12.8 cubic feet, though the hatchback space swells to nearly 26 cubic feet when the split back seat is folded flat. (The rear seat also reclines and slides forward and backward.)
 That movement makes the Yaris quite flexible, though with the back seat in the far-forward position only a child could sit there comfortably. 
 As good as the Yaris is in many respects, the Fit is the hands-down winner in space flexibility and cargo hauling. The Honda has a lower floor, which helps to explain its larger space (42 cubic feet) when the rear seat is folded.
 The Fit's split rear seat works four ways in addition to the standard upright position. The rear seats can ''dive'' down to the floor, creating a flat cargo space without any need to remove the head restraints. The right-side seatback can be flipped forward, in tandem with the front passenger seat, to create a long, flat space that can accommodate items nearly eight feet long. And the bottoms of the rear seats can be flipped up against the backrest to make space for tall items (up to 50 inches high).
 Honda has been promoting its ''safety for all'' initiative, and even the relatively inexpensive Fit comes with antilock brakes and six air bags (including side-protection curtains). Also standard are air-conditioning; power windows, mirrors and locks; and an audio system with a CD player.
 The Fit starts at $14,400, including shipping. The Fit Sport test car was fully equipped at $16,520. 
 Toyota takes a different approach by making most safety features optional, which helps to explain why the Yaris's base price is much lower. It also means that some people who might not be able to afford a Fit could own a Yaris. 
 The base price of the Yaris hatchback is $11,530 with a manual transmission (and a quaint throwback, crank windows, which provide a great upper-body workout).
 Our Yaris test car was equipped much like the Fit Sport, with the $1,680 power package (power locks, windows, and mirrors, and the multifunction rear seat); the $650 air bag package (side bags and side curtains) and $300 antilock brakes. The sticker price was $15,400. 
 Since small cars tend to suffer in crashes with bigger vehicles, I would choose all the air bags I could get, especially the air curtains. The Insurance Institute for Highway Safety has found that in a side impact the curtains cut the risk of death by about 45 percent.
 The Environmental Protection Agency rated our Yaris at 34 m.p.g. in town and 39 on the highway. The Fit's rating was 31 in town and 37 on the highway. Figures for manual transmissions are slightly higher. 
 In our testing, we chose to go with the traffic flow rather than make an effort to coax the best mileage out of the cars. Still, when we calculated our actual mileage, it came pretty close to the E.P.A. estimates: 37.4 for the Yaris and 35.5 m.p.g. for the heavier Fit, in which we also used the manual-shifting paddles to rev the engine up for an occasional bit of hot-rodding.
 So after covering 600 miles in each car, which is better over all? 
 The Yaris felt more polished, was more comfortable on bad pavement and seemed quieter. I also give it points for style.
 But the Fit was far more fun to drive and much more functional. For a small car, it can carry a lot of stuff. So if I had the extra $1,000 to $3,000 to spend, I'd take the Fit.
 Still, whichever you prefer, the Yaris and Fit represent the American debut of a new type of small car from two big-league automakers. These are economy cars that don't make you feel as if you're in economy class. 
 The question is this: Are Americans, with their bigger-is-better mindset, willing to adjust their attitudes just a little?

INSIDE TRACK: Downsizing done well.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Honda Fit, left, has four doors and a hatch. The Toyota Yaris comes as a two-door hatchback, right, or four-door sedan. (Photo by Christopher Jensen for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Honda Fit, left, and Toyota Yaris. (pg. 4)Chart: ''Small Hatchbacks Are Back in a Big Way'' lists features and specifications for selected vehicles with hatchbacks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); NATIONAL PARKS (64%) Automobiles; Reviews

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Honda Motor Co; Toyota Motor Corp

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (55%)

PERSON: Cheryl Jensen

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (91%); EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



208 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 2; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 345 words

HEADLINE: Nissan Is Next to Step Up to the Small-Car Plate

BYLINE: By CHERYL JENSEN

 BODY:
THE Honda Fit and Toyota Yaris may represent a new generation of super subcompacts, but they are not the last word on the subject.
 In June, Nissan will bring its own small hatchback, the Versa, to the growing party. A sedan arrives later this year. 
At 169 inches long, about the size of a Ford Focus, the Versa hatchback is considerably larger than the Fit and especially the Yaris. But it is some eight inches shorter than the Nissan Sentra.
 Like the Fit and Yaris, the Versa has a four-cylinder engine, but with more horsepower (120) and more transmission choices: six-speed manual, four-speed automatic or continuously variable automatic.
 With a price likely to start around $13,000, the Versa will come with many safety and convenience features. Fuel economy of CVT-equipped models is expected to reach 38 m.p.g. in combined city-highway driving.
 Like Honda and Toyota, Nissan will move its existing entry-level car, the Sentra compact, up the scale in size, price and power. While that should make Sentras more profitable, there is more to the strategy. Toyota's rivals would like to duplicate the success of its Scion brand at using inexpensive cars to lure in young customers -- who will presumably then stay in the corporate family as they become older and richer.
 Further, there is little risk involved, since the companies already sell versions of these models on other continents and need not spend much on product development or new assembly plants.
 While Americans have long resisted hatchbacks despite their space efficiency, small car sales are expected to grow over all. J. D. Power & Associates, the big market research firm, expects some growth in the broader segment that includes both subcompact and compact cars.
 While sales fell from 2000 to 2005, to 2.4 million last year, the firm expects an increase to 2.5 million this year and to 2.7 million by 2010. 
 Tina Jantzi, manager of North American forecasting at J. D. Power, said the growth was expected to come from first-time car buyers, not from existing owners reacting to high fuel prices.


GRAPHIC: Photo: 2007 Nissan Versa

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); SEDANS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); SALES PROJECTIONS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (71%); SALES FIGURES (69%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (68%); MARKET RESEARCH (66%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (66%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (66%) Automobiles

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (95%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Nissan Motor Co

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (95%); HMC (NYSE) (95%); 7267 (TSE) (95%); TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

PERSON: Cheryl Jensen

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



209 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: HUNTS POINT; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: Plenty of Fish, But Not Much Custom

BYLINE: By STEVEN KURUTZ

 BODY:
The other day, John Robert, the district manager of Community Board 2 in the Bronx, stopped by one of the dozens of auto shops in Hunts Point, near the new site of the Fulton Fish Market. At one point during the visit, a mechanic asked Mr. Robert, ''Oh, by the way, when is the market opening?'' 
 Mr. Robert replied, ''It's been open for two months.''
When it was first announced that the fish market would be moving to Hunts Point, the business owners there expected a boom. It made sense. There would be 700 new workers to buy doughnuts and sandwiches, get their cars fixed, open bank accounts. 
 Three months later, merchants are wondering, where's the windfall?
 ''Business is nowhere near to what we expected,'' said Paul Cavounis, the manager of Twin Donut, which is on Hunts Point Avenue half a mile from the market. Across the street at the Blue Eagle Restaurant, the story is much the same, as it is at the new branch of Signature Bank. 
 At first, people blamed the nocturnal hours kept by the market workers. The market operates from roughly 1 to 9 a.m. Who is on hand to whip up a slice of pizza at Fratelli's Pizza Cafe at 4 a.m.? But Twin Donut is open 24 hours, as is the Blue Eagle.
 Matters are not helped by the market's $5 entrance fee. Restaurants do not want to pay $5 every time they send a delivery person to the market, and the workers do not want to pay $10 for a $5 sandwich. 
 But there may be a simpler explanation for the sluggish start. The Hunts Point economy is narrowly focused, consisting mainly of junkyards and auto shops and the diners and banks that cater to their workers. Inside the fish market there is a full-menu cafe, one that doesn't smell strangely of paint primer like the Blue Eagle. There are also two coffee trucks, moved up from the old location on South Street, and an onsite bank, a branch of North Fork. It is perhaps the only bank in the city where you can cash a check at 2 a.m.
 If the market brought in an auto repair shop and a junkyard, it would have the whole of the Hunts Point economy under its roof. 
 For the merchants, there is disappointment. ''We thought business was going to boom, expected it to,'' said Mr. Cavounis of Twin Donut.
 But George Maroulis, who manages the fish market, says he believes that in time the market will integrate into the local business community. ''We moved an entire industry with all its employees up here,'' he said. ''There are ties to the old market. It's an evolutionary process, but it will happen.'' STEVEN KURUTZ


GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul Cavounis, manager of Twin Donut, expected a boom in business. (Photo by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); FISH & SEAFOOD STORES (77%); BANK BRANCHES (74%); BAKED GOODS (74%) Fish and Other Marine Life

ORGANIZATION: Fulton Fish Market (NYC)

PERSON: Steven Kurutz

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Hunts Point (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



210 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1931 words

HEADLINE: Schools Practice Higher Math To Pay Leaders

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

 BODY:
THE president of the Commack School Board, Mary Jo Masciello, likes to hear her district mentioned in the same breath with Jericho's and Great Neck's, two highly regarded Nassau school districts that churn out Intel scholars and Ivy Leaguers every year.
 Indeed, Commack, a mid-Island district of high ranches and colonials, has credentials: It is now in the top three on Long Island in the proportion of students who earn a Regents diploma, up from 28th in 1989 -- an accomplishment Ms. Masciello unambiguously credits to the stable leadership of its top administrators.
Those administrators have also put Commack into a league that not even Nassau's elite districts have reached: Two of them, Superintendent James H. Hunderfund and Associate Superintendent James A. Feltman, have salary and benefit packages that now exceed $300,000 a year. 
 Commack, in fact, is the only district in the state thus distinguished, according to reports filed with the State Education Department. 
 But Ms. Masciello says it is a distinction she does not find hard to explain to residents, who have had to swallow a 34 percent increase in school tax levies since 2001. 
 The district's students achieve, she said, and its overall administrative burden is not high, in part because the board combined two former jobs at the assistant-superintendent level to create Dr. Feltman's position. 
 ''We have always felt that we needed quality leadership, and reinforced that with salary,'' Ms. Masciello said.
 Commack is also emblematic of a rapid inflation in the pay scales of suburban school administrators. Districts competing to give the children of their affluent residents every advantage have helped create a seller's market for management talent, pushing some superintendents into the rarefied air of the $300,000 salary-and-benefit package.
 The $200,000 milestone has become the floor for superintendents' pay deals, and it is increasingly common among deputy and assistant superintendents. 
 In all, at least 114 school administrators in Nassau and Suffolk are making $200,000 or more in salary and benefits combined, and 28 of them are assistant, associate or deputy superintendents. 
 In a handful of districts in the heart of Nassau County -- Hewlett-Woodmere, Jericho, Great Neck and Massapequa -- there are four administrators who are each making $200,000 or more.
 Under pressure to deliver higher test scores, board members like Ms. Masciello say they must agree to pay enough to lure and retain good candidates for top jobs. ''We as a board take the tax burden very seriously,'' she said, ''but we also keep in mind that our community expects the children to have a quality education and succeed in the future.'' 
 Critics point to the salaries as evidence that costs are spinning out of control.
 ''The districts play musical chairs -- one district offers this much, then the next district has to offer more,'' said Laurann Pandelakis of Manhasset, a former teacher and administrator who is now active in an advocacy group called Long Islanders for Educational Reform. ''Is it really a supply and demand issue? I wonder if it's an artificial market.''
 The median increase in total compensation of superintendents on Long Island was 6 percent last year, according to figures reported to the State Education Department. That was well above the 3.3 percent increase in consumer prices last year. 
 Under a 1996 state law, school districts must report information to the state about any administrator they paid more than a certain figure, which this year is $104,000. 
 Even so, some do not report. Some of those nonreporting districts agreed to provide figures to The New York Times, and they were included in calculations for this article. State officials say they have no authority to compel districts to file the reports.
 Total district spending on the pay of assistant and deputy superintendents rose about 6 percent on average as well. Principals' pay also advanced, but it is more difficult to say by how much, because some principals are paid less than the threshold amount and are not included in reports to the state.
 School boards and their supporters say the districts are caught in a squeeze only partly of their own making. For one thing, demand is high now, because a wave of educators who began teaching in the great baby-boom expansion of the Island's school systems in the late 1960's, and then became administrators after a decade or two in the classroom, are now retiring. 
 Across the state, about 80 of the state's 750-odd superintendents have been retiring each year recently, double the usual rate of 40 or 45 a year, according to Thomas Rogers, executive director of the New York State Council of School Superintendents.
 At the same time, the supply of candidates has diminished, the boards and superintendents say, because the job has become more demanding and less attractive, especially compared with the security, shorter hours and high pay for teaching in New York's suburbs.
 ''The job has become incredibly complex,'' said Vincent T. Beni, a recruiter and former superintendent in Irvington, in Westchester. ''The imposition of mandates from state and federal government are not funded and require you to go out and ask people to raise their taxes to pay for them. When I first started, we were education leaders of the community. Now, you've become a fund-raiser.''
 In a 2003 survey, the school superintendents' council found that on average, superintendents were first taking a top district job at the age of 48, compared with 38 in the early 1990's.
 Mr. Rogers said that change was partly a result of demographics: women, who tend to move into administration later in life than men, now account for 22 percent of superintendents in the state, up from 12 percent in 1997. 
 But Mr. Rogers said it was also a barometer of reluctance: Not that many people want the job, especially in the small suburban districts where residents expect a lot and costs are skyrocketing.
 ''The environment is more hostile,'' he said. ''The tension has never been greater, because the demand has never been greater and the costs have never been greater.'' 
 Part of the reason for the scarcity of administrators at all levels, authorities say, is that teaching has become such a well-paid profession. Teachers have better job security and work shorter hours with generous pension and insurance benefits, and thousands of them now make six-figure salaries of their own. In the Central Islip district, the highest-paid school principal makes $160,000 a year; the highest-paid teacher makes $134,000. Those figures do not include benefits.
 ''It used to be that principals made 1.5 times the median teacher,'' Mr. Rogers said. ''Now the differential is nowhere near that. You're asking someone to give up a 10-month job for a 12-month job, for not that much more money.''
 Donna Walsh, president of the Katonah-Lewisboro School Board in Westchester, recalled a different atmosphere in the early 1990's. ''We recently lost an elementary school principal,'' she said. ''I remember when we hired him 15 years before -- we sent out notices and got 150 applicants. Now, if we get 12 qualified, appropriate applicants, we're lucky.''
 In Mineola, the school board hired Superintendent Lorenzo Licopoli at a salary of $160,000 in 2001, but agreed to big raises every year so that his salary, relative to other superintendents on the Island, would catch up with the district's highly paid teachers. By last year, Mr. Licopoli was making $224,576, excluding benefits. 
 This year he volunteered to reduce his contracted increase of 4 percent by half, and now makes $229,068. With benefits included, his package is $288,401. 
 ''My teachers and administrators are among the top 10 highest paid in the county,'' Mr. Licopoli wrote in an e-mail message. ''The board, based on my performance, agreed to incrementally increase my salary so that I would be around the top-15 ranking among the superintendents -- which I am now -- based on my performance.''
 Mr. Beni said the recent run-up in administrators' salaries had begun to rebuild the job's pay premium over teachers. 
 ''The gap has been growing again,'' he said ''We think the compensation is becoming more attractive. It's more appropriate for the complexity of the job.''
 Critics, though, dismiss the talk of low supply and high demand and say that cozy relationships between boards and administrators are responsible for the large pay packages. 
 ''To imply there is not a tremendous number of people interested in 126 jobs that are the highest-paid jobs on Long Island, in an industry that is protected by contracts, is a joke,'' said Fred Gorman, a tax protester in Nesconset, referring to the number of school districts in Nassau and Suffolk.
 Ms. Pandelakis of Manhasset noted that an apparently plentiful supply of teachers had not depressed their salaries, and she suggested that school boards have simply been too lenient. 
 But the groups that represent school boards and superintendents say that elected board members are too worried about their increasingly rebellious taxpayers to collude with administrators over pay.
 ''Everyone is obsessed with property tax rates,'' said David Ernst, spokesman for the New York State School Boards Association. ''I don't see where it works to a district's advantage to go wild in bidding up the contracts of superintendents. It's just not what they're thinking about.''
 Still, board members acknowledge they feel constant pressure to retain top administrators and rapidly fill vacancies, and that pressure is not likely to abate soon. The stakes are high: As emphasis on measurable achievement grows, they want administrators who can raise test scores. 
 ''There are a lot of headhunters out there, don't let anyone kid you,'' said Donna Strein, the president of the Mineola School Board. Dr. Licopoli, the district's superintendent, is partway through a long-term plan to improve accountability, she said, and the board is eager to keep him. ''He's a prize commodity,'' she said.
 Ms. Masciello of the Commack School Board said the district put together a $300,000-plus package for its associate superintendent because it is promoting him to superintendent next year when the incumbent retires, sparing the district a search for a successor. 
 ''The scarcity is troubling many districts,'' Ms. Masciello said. ''I've been to many conferences where people say we are so lucky, because we don't have that challenge of hiring inexperienced people at $200,000-plus and not knowing if they're going to fit in.''
 Mr. Ernst also pointed out that the bill for central administrators -- superintendents and their deputies and assistants -- is lower on average in New York districts than in other states. 
 ''There are a lot of highly paid administrators, but there are not a lot of administrators, so people are being required to earn their money,'' he said.
 Dr. Hunderfund, the Commack superintendent, said he has received 7-percent raises in each of his 12 years on the job, but only because he met the expectations of the school board. The share of Commack graduates earning Regents diplomas rose to 94 percent in 2004, from 49 percent in 1989. Most districts in the state improved their Regents diploma rates over that time, but only a few others showed the jump that Commack did.
 ''In any corporate body, there's one person responsible for everything,'' Dr. Hunderfund said. ''You take the reward, but you take the grief also. That's pressure and stress that few people aspire to.''


GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''Top Pay for Top Jobs''On the map, each school district is shaded based on its concentration of high-salaried administrators, meaning any superintendents, assistant and deputy superintendents, principals, assistant principals and department heads whose annual salary and benefits exceed $104,000. Though state law requires all school districts to report information about such employees, some districts do not comply.Chart/Map of Long Island and Westchester indicating salary level of school administrators.(Sources by New York State Department of Education
 school districts)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); SUBURBS (67%); TAX LAW (66%) Education and Schools; Wages and Salaries

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (58%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: mary jo masciello; Ford Fessenden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Commack (NY); Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



211 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Eminent Good Sense

 BODY:
Eminent domain, the ability of government to take private property for public use, is like any heavy-duty power tool: It can do a lot of damage if mishandled. But wielded cautiously and wisely, it can do much to advance the public interest. 
 A compelling example of the latter approach is the recent decision by the Town of Brookhaven to use its eminent-domain powers to take 40 acres of land away from a housing developer to preserve it for farming.
The action was a striking reversal of the old Long Island way of doing things. Typically it is sprawl and well-connected developers that win out over open space and farmers, and when the Democrats who control the town board prevailed in a 4-3 party-line vote, officials there rightly called it a historic moment. Their goal is to add the plot to the Manorville Farmland Protection Area, a 500-acre swath of undeveloped Brookhaven that has been protected from the relentless incursion of suburbia. The land will be leased to private farmers.
 The decision prompted a howl from at least one property-rights advocate, a newspaper columnist who went so far as to revive the old ''Crookhaven'' label to condemn what he called an act of thievery by the town's new Democratic administration and its supervisor, Brian Foley.
 But that recklessly applied smear is grossly unfair to Mr. Foley, who rightly points out that the eminent-domain decision was made only after careful consideration and after repeated efforts to reach an agreement on a sale price with the housing developer collapsed.
 Mr. Foley also makes a compelling argument that in a region where McMansions are sprouting like toadstools, preserving open spaces and a rural character are an important priority of any responsible government. 
 Brookhaven's efforts, in fact, dovetail neatly with those of other towns and of Nassau and Suffolk Counties, which have dedicated millions of dollars to buying up and preserving undeveloped parcels. Long Island has sprawled almost to its limits, and while the need for housing remains dire, the best direction for new construction is not outward but inward -- in old downtowns and on distressed properties and reclaimed brownfields.
 People are right to be on guard whenever government uses its power of eminent domain to transfer land from one private owner to another. The attachment to property rights runs deep, as the most recent Supreme Court decision on eminent domain vividly demonstrates. By upholding the right of the City of New London, Conn., to seize private homes for economic development, the court has provoked a nationwide scramble by state legislatures to refine and restrict their states' ability to exercise eminent-domain powers. 
 Yet the courts have long held that eminent domain need not always be restricted to public amenities like roads and bridges, and they have given governments wide discretion in deciding how to define a valid public use. If taking land for a private project provides a clear public benefit, if it is not done merely to make a private landowner richer or to discriminate against a specific class or group of people, and is a last resort when all other attempts at striking a fair deal fail, it can be justified. 
 The development needs of New London, a desperately down-and-out city, met those criteria, and it is clear that Mr. Foley's administration is also on the right, responsible track. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMINENT DOMAIN (91%); PROPERTY LAW (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); LITIGATION (76%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); SUBURBS (70%); POLITICS (69%); WRITERS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); APPEALS (50%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (50%) Eminent Domain; Agriculture ; Editorials; Land Use Policies

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Brookhaven (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



212 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Compassion That Hurts

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
In 1951 America welcomed an East European refugee who spoke no English. His first job in the U.S. was at a logging camp in Oregon, and I suppose that if that job hadn't gone to my father, it would have gone to an American.
 That's the nub of the problem: it's hypocritical of us to close the doors behind us (unless you're a pure Navajo), yet there's a genuine problem with the impact of immigration on the poorest Americans. 
I used to favor a program to allow in guest workers, thinking it would be good for them and also great for America by providing a source of low-cost labor -- just as it was good for America to admit our own ancestors. And illegal immigrants overwhelmingly are hard-working people who keep the economy humming, so they deserve respect rather than xenophobic resentment and a marginalized life in the shadows.
 But I've changed my mind on a guest worker program, because of growing evidence that low-wage immigration hurts America's own poor. 
 The most careful study of this issue, done by George Borjas and Lawrence Katz and published by the National Bureau of Economic Research, found that the surge of immigration in the 1980's and 1990's lowered the wages of America's own high school dropouts by 8.2 percent. ''The large growth and predominantly low-skilled nature of Mexican immigration to the United States over the past two decades appears to have played a modest role in the widening of the U.S. wage structure,'' the study concluded.
 Another study, by Steven Camarota of the Center for Immigration Studies, reached similar conclusions. Between 2000 and 2005, he found, immigrant workers with a high school degree or less rose by 1.5 million, while employment of native workers at that education level fell by 3.2 million. 
 It's often said that immigrants take jobs that Americans won't take. But look at employment statistics, and you see that even among maids and agricultural workers, only four out of 10 people are immigrants.
 I can't write about this issue without thinking of Elmer, a neighbor when I was growing up. He's a high school dropout now in his 50's, but when I met him in 1971, he was earning $26 an hour in a union job. He's very hard-working, but for the last decade he's been reduced to janitorial jobs paying not much over minimum wage. People like Elmer haven't been heard from in the immigration debate, but they have the most at stake.
 The 1986 immigration amnesty ended up bringing in waves of unskilled workers. They care for our children and mow our lawns. But as they raise living standards for many of us, they lower the living standards of Americans like Elmer.
 That's a trade-off we need to face squarely. The impulse behind immigration reforms is a generosity that I admire. But the cold reality is that admitting poor immigrants often means hurting poor Americans. We can salve the pain with job programs for displaced Americans, but the fundamental trade-off is unavoidable.
 Children are hit particularly hard, because they are disproportionately likely to be poor. Nearly half of American children depend on a worker with a high school education or less.
 The broader problem is that our immigration program is structured so as to bring in cheap laborers more than brilliant minds. At last count, only 16 percent of admissions for permanent residence went to those with employment qualifications, while the great majority went to applicants on the basis of family ties.
 When I lived in China, American diplomats complained that under the law they had to deny visas to brilliant physicists while granting immigrant visas to elementary-school dropouts who had a relative in Chicago.
 So let's go ahead and regularize longtime illegals, rather than leaving them forever in the shadows. But instead of bringing in a new flood of guest workers, let's recast our generosity more toward biologists and computer programmers. The H1-B visa program enriches America by bringing in high-tech workers, but the nominal ceiling on these visas has dropped to 65,000, after temporarily rising to 195,000 in the 1990's. That's the immigration flow to expand.
 In contrast, bringing in 325,000 or more guest workers annually (as various versions of the current Senate bills provide) would be particularly tough on America's poor at this time. They are reeling from Bush program cuts and the fraying of medical safety nets. An influx of hundreds of thousands more unskilled laborers would impoverish them further -- and to me, that does not feel like compassion. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); REFUGEES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (86%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); FARM LABOR (76%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (70%); IMMIGRATION LAW (70%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (69%); AMNESTY (68%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (67%); AGRICULTURE (50%) Immigration and Refugees; Foreign Labor; Labor; Wages and Salaries; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (55%)

PERSON: Nicholas D Kristof

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



213 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 256 words

HEADLINE: Health Care, the Massachusetts Way

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Your reports about Massachusetts' health reform legislation treat politicians' overblown claims as gospel. 
 The legislation completely ignores one-third of the uninsured, dismissing the Census Bureau's estimate that 748,000 lack coverage in Massachusetts in favor of an estimate of 500,000 derived from a phone survey. 
The linchpin of the promised coverage is a requirement that most of the uninsured buy their own coverage, and assurances that private insurers will offer affordable, comprehensive policies. 
 But already reports have surfaced that these new policies will be far costlier than promised, putting them out of reach of most of the uninsured and sharply raising the costs of state subsidies to help the very poor.
 Predictably, rising costs will force more employers to drop coverage, while state coffers will be drained by the continuing cost increases in Medicaid. When the next recession hits, tax revenues will fall just as a flood of newly unemployed people join the Medicaid program or apply for the insurance subsidies promised in the reform legislation. 
 The program is simply not sustainable over the long or even short term. In contrast, a single-payer reform could save $9 billion a year on bureaucracy in Massachusetts, more than enough to cover the uninsured and to upgrade coverage for the rest of us.

David U. Himmelstein, M.D.
Steffie Woolhandler, M.D.
Cambridge, Mass., April 6, 2006

The writers, associate professors of medicine at Harvard, co-founded Physicians for a National Health Program.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); CENSUS (88%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); INSURANCE (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (67%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (54%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

PERSON: David (Prof) Himmelstein; Steffie (Dr) Woolhandler

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



214 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 108 words

HEADLINE: Health Care, the Massachusetts Way

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 I applaud Massachusetts for addressing the health care problem.
The Massachusetts plan focuses on forcing individuals and businesses to buy health insurance, with government subsidies to private insurance plans allowing more of the working poor to buy insurance.
 The one issue not adequately addressed was health care cost.
 Federal and state governments can do more to control health care and prescription drug costs, perhaps by tying them to inflation.
 Health care is not and cannot be a competitive business, and where there is no competition, there needs to be regulation to control greed. 

Frank O'Brien
Utica, N.Y., April 5, 2006 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (88%); POOR POPULATION (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (87%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (87%); LEGISLATION (86%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (85%); BUDGETS (85%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Law and Legislation

PERSON: Frank O'Brien

GEOGRAPHIC: UTICA, NY, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



215 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; IN BRIEF; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 219 words

HEADLINE: Hitchcock Stores to Close April 26

BYLINE: By DICK AHLES

 BODY:
The Hitchcock Chair Company will close its remaining stores in Glastonbury and Riverton on April 26 and its New Hartford factory on May 12, putting a total of 55 people out of work, while it continues what has been a futile search for a buyer, according to Ronald Coleman, Hitchcock president. 
 The company has been for sale since the fall of 2005. The company had already closed its wholesale outlet in North Carolina and stores in Orange and Wilton.
Mr. Coleman said Hitchcock was ceasing production because of competition from inexpensive furniture made overseas, particularly in Asia.
 ''Unfortunately, Hitchcock will join a long list of furniture manufacturers that have dissolved over the past few years,'' Mr. Coleman said.
 The company was founded by Lambert Hitchcock in what is now Riverton in 1825 and went out of business in the 1850's. It was revived in 1946 and has been owned by the Faccenda Group, a British poultry processor, since 1989.
 The loss of Hitchcock will have an economic impact on the village of Riverton, but Leslie DiMartino, owner of the Riverton General Store and president of the Riverton Merchants Association, said she was confident the nearby state parks and the Farmington River, where fishing season begins Saturday, will continue to attract visitors and business.
 DICK AHLES

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); FURNITURE MFG (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); POULTRY PROCESSING (73%); STATE PARKS (65%) Furniture; Shutdowns (Institutional); Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Factories and Industrial Plants; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: HITCHCOCK CHAIR CO LTD (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Hitchcock Chair Co

INDUSTRY: NAICS337121 UPHOLSTERED HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2512 UPHOLSTERED WOOD HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE (93%)

PERSON: Dick Ahles

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (69%) Glastonbury (Conn); Riverton (Conn); New Hartford (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



216 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Mushroom Grower to Move Out of State

BYLINE: By JEFF HOLTZ

 BODY:
AFTER growing mushrooms in the town of Franklin for more than 25 years, Franklin Farms has announced that it will move most of its operations to Pennsylvania in June and lay off most of the company's approximately 380 employees. 
 The company said it reached an agreement with the Giorgio Fresh Company in Reading, Pa., on March 31 to grow and package its mushrooms. The company said it would continue to produce organic mushrooms at Franklin Farms. 
 Wilhelm Meya, the owner of the company, said he was moving most of the business because of the high costs of transportation and energy.
 ''This is not a major agricultural area,'' he said, referring to Connecticut. ''We have to import the materials that we use to grow the mushrooms a long distance. And the high cost of diesel fuel has made that expensive.
 ''Also, my energy costs have doubled in two years from $2 million to $4 million.''
 Mr. Meya said most of Franklin Farm's employees would be laid off in early June. He said they had been offered jobs in Pennsylvania, but none accepted. He said a few would remain to run the organic operations, but he didn't know how many.
 Following a meeting with Mr. Meya on Monday, Gov. M. Jodi Rell said in a statement that she was upset that the company did not consult with the state before deciding to move.
 ''Corporations are obviously free to make their own business decisions,'' she said. ''However, I am extremely disappointed that Franklin Farms did not contact the state at the start of the negotiations to see how we may have assisted in keeping the business and jobs in eastern Connecticut. Even if energy costs were given as part of the reason, this was a done deal before anyone could intervene.''
 James Watson, a spokesman for the State Department Economic and Community Development, said the state could have offered Franklin Farms low-interest loans and grants to modernize its equipment.
 But Mr. Meya said it would not have made a difference.
 ''Our system is very energy-dependent,'' he said. ''We sometimes burn 30,000 gallons of oil in a week, and the state cannot control how much a barrel of oil costs.'' He said the equipment used at Giorgio Fresh was more energy efficient.
 Richard Matters, the first selectman of Franklin, said the town would lose about $90,000 a year in taxes because of the move. He said it would also affect other businesses.
 ''Naturally, the workers at the farm spend money at the convenience stores and the gas stations,'' Mr. Matters said. ''It's going to have a trickle-down effect.'' 
 Franklin would offer tax credits to a company willing to locate there, Mr. Matters said.
 Mr. Meya said he would work with local and state officials to find a business that could move into the part of the farm left unoccupied. He said deciding to move was a difficult choice.
 ''The hardest thing is what this means for the employees who have worked with me, and were so dedicated, and built the Franklin name up,'' he said. ''It's not a pleasant ending for anyone who worked there.''
 The State Department of Labor was expected to send a team to Franklin to help the workers find new jobs and offer job training.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Franklin Farms has announced that it will move most of its operations to Pennsylvania in June, though its organic mushrooms will still be produced in Franklin. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSHROOM PRODUCTION (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (75%); GASOLINE PRICES (75%); GAS STATIONS (73%); RELOCATIONS (73%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (70%); CONVENIENCE STORES (70%); DIESEL FUEL (68%); TAX INCENTIVES (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); TAX LAW (60%); RETAILERS (50%) Mushrooms; Relocation of Business; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions

ORGANIZATION: franklin farms (franklin, conn); giorgio fresh co

PERSON: M JODI RELL (54%) Jeff Holtz

GEOGRAPHIC: READING, PA, USA (91%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) Reading (Pa); Franklin (Conn); Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



217 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: FRICTIONS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1820 words

HEADLINE: U.S. STUDY PAINTS SOMBER PORTRAIT OF IRAQI DISCORD

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT and EDWARD WONG; Eric Schmitt reported from Washington for this article, and Edward Wong from Baghdad. Jeffrey Gettleman contributed reporting from Hilla, Iraq, and Abdul Razzaq al-Saiedi from Baghdad.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 8 

 BODY:
An internal staff report by the United States Embassy and the military command in Baghdad provides a sobering province-by-province snapshot of Iraq's political, economic and security situation, rating the overall stability of 6 of the 18 provinces ''serious'' and one ''critical.'' The report is a counterpoint to some recent upbeat public statements by top American politicians and military officials. 
 The report, 10 pages of briefing points titled ''Provincial Stability Assessment,'' underscores the shift in the nature of the Iraq war three years after the toppling of Saddam Hussein. Warnings of sectarian and ethnic frictions are raised in many regions, even in those provinces generally described as nonviolent by American officials.
There are alerts about the growing power of Iranian-backed religious Shiite parties, several of which the United States helped put into power, and rival militias in the south. The authors also point to the Arab-Kurdish fault line in the north as a major concern, with the two ethnicities vying for power in Mosul, where violence is rampant, and Kirkuk, whose oil fields are critical for jump-starting economic growth in Iraq. 
 The patterns of discord mapped by the report confirm that ethnic and religious schisms have become entrenched across much of the country, even as monthly American fatalities have fallen. Those indications, taken with recent reports of mass migrations from mixed Sunni-Shiite areas, show that Iraq is undergoing a de facto partitioning along ethnic and sectarian lines, with clashes -- sometimes political, sometimes violent -- taking place in those mixed areas where different groups meet. 
 The report, the first of its kind, was written over a six-week period by a joint civilian and military group in Baghdad that wanted to provide a baseline assessment for conditions that new reconstruction teams would face as they were deployed to the provinces, said Daniel Speckhard, an American ambassador in Baghdad who oversees reconstruction efforts.
 The writers included officials from the American Embassy's political branch, reconstruction agencies and the American military command in Baghdad, Mr. Speckhard said. The authors also received information from State Department officers in the provinces, he said.
 The report was part of a periodic briefing on Iraq that the State Department provides to Congress, and has been shown to officials on Capitol Hill, including those involved in budgeting for the reconstruction teams. It is not clear how many top American officials have seen it; the report has not circulated widely at the Defense Department or the National Security Council, spokesmen there said. 
 A copy of the report, which is not classified, was provided to The New York Times by a government official in Washington who opposes the way the war is being conducted and said the confidential assessment provided a more realistic gauge of stability in Iraq than the recent portrayals by senior military officers. It is dated Jan. 31, 2006, three weeks before the bombing of a revered Shiite shrine in Samarra, which set off reprisals that killed hundreds of Iraqis. Recent updates to the report are minor and leave its conclusions virtually unchanged, Mr. Speckhard said. 
 The general tenor of the Bush administration's comments on Iraq has been optimistic. On Thursday, President Bush argued in a speech that his strategy was working despite rising violence in Iraq. 
 Vice President Dick Cheney, on the CBS News program ''Face the Nation,'' suggested last month that the administration's positive views were a better reflection of the conditions in Iraq than news media reports. 
 ''I think it has less to do with the statements we've made, which I think were basically accurate and reflect reality,'' Mr. Cheney said, ''than it does with the fact that there's a constant sort of perception, if you will, that's created because what's newsworthy is the car bomb in Baghdad.'' 
 In their public comments, the White House and the Pentagon have used daily attack statistics as a measure of stability in the provinces. Maj. Gen. Rick Lynch, a senior military spokesman in Baghdad, told reporters recently that 12 of 18 provinces experienced ''less than two attacks a day.'' 
 Gen. Peter Pace, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said on the NBC News program ''Meet the Press'' on March 5 that the war in Iraq was ''going very, very well,'' although a few days later, he acknowledged serious difficulties.
 In recent interviews and speeches, some administration officials have begun to lay out the deep-rooted problems plaguing the American enterprise here. At the forefront has been Zalmay Khalilzad, the American ambassador, who has said the invasion opened a ''Pandora's box'' and, on Friday, warned that a civil war here could engulf the entire Middle East. 
 On Saturday, Mr. Khalilzad and Gen. George W. Casey Jr., the senior military commander in Iraq, issued a statement praising some of the political and security goals achieved in the last three years, but also cautioning that ''despite much progress, much work remains.''
 Mr. Speckhard, the ambassador overseeing reconstruction, said the report was not as dire as its assessments might suggest. ''Really, this shows there's one province that continues to be a major challenge,'' he said. ''There are a number of others that have significant work to do in them. And there are other parts of the country that are doing much better.'' 
 But the report's capsule summaries of each province offer some surprisingly gloomy news. The report's formula for rating stability takes into account governing, security and economic issues. The oil-rich Basra Province, where British troops have patrolled in relative calm for most of the last three years, is now rated as ''serious.'' 
 The report defines ''serious'' as having ''a government that is not fully formed or cannot serve the needs of its residents; economic development that is stagnant with high unemployment, and a security situation marked by routine violence, assassinations and extremism.'' 
 British fatalities have been on the rise in Basra in recent months, with attacks attributed to Shiite insurgents. There is a ''high level of militia activity including infiltration of local security forces,'' the report says. ''Smuggling and criminal activity continues unabated. Intimidation attacks and assassination are common.'' 
 The report states that economic development in the region, long one of the poorest in Iraq, is ''hindered by weak government.'' 
 The city of Basra has widely been reported as devolving into a mini-theocracy, with government and security officials beholden to Shiite religious leaders, enforcing bans on alcohol and mandating head scarves for women. Police cars and checkpoints are often decorated with posters or stickers of Moktada al-Sadr, the rebellious cleric, or Abdul-Aziz al-Hakim, a cleric whose party is very close to Iran. Both men have formidable militias. 
 Mr. Hakim's party controls the provincial councils of eight of the nine southern provinces, as well as the council in Baghdad.
 In a color-coded map included in the report, the province of Anbar, the wide swath of western desert that is the heart of the Sunni Arab insurgency, is depicted in red, for ''critical.'' The six provinces categorized as ''serious'' -- Basra, Baghdad, Diyala and three others to the north -- are orange. Eight provinces deemed ''moderate'' are in yellow, and the three Kurdish provinces are depicted in green, for ''stable.'' 
 The ''critical'' security designation, the report says, means a province has ''a government that is not functioning'' or that is only ''represented by a single strong leader''; ''an economy that does have the infrastructure or government leadership to develop and is a significant contributor to instability''; and ''a security situation marked by high levels of AIF [anti-Iraq forces] activity, assassinations and extremism.'' 
 The most surprising assessments are perhaps those of the nine southern provinces, none of which are rated ''stable.'' The Bush administration often highlights the relative lack of violence in those regions. 
 For example, the report rates as ''moderate'' the two provinces at the heart of Shiite religious power, Najaf and Karbala, and points to the growing Iranian political presence there. In Najaf, ''Iranian influence on provincial government of concern,'' the report says. Both the governor and former governor of Najaf are officials in Mr. Hakim's religious party, founded in Iran in the early 1980's. The report also notes that ''there is growing tension between Mahdi Militia and Badr Corps that could escalate'' -- referring to the private armies of Mr. Sadr and Mr. Hakim, which have clashed before. 
 The report does highlight two bright spots for Najaf. The provincial government is able to maintain stability for the province and provide for the people's needs, it says, and religious tourism offers potential for economic growth. 
 But insurgents still manage to occasionally penetrate the tight ring of security. A car bomb exploded Thursday near the golden-domed Imam Ali Shrine, killing at least 10 people and wounding dozens.
 Immediately to the north, Babil Province, an important strategic area abutting Baghdad, also has ''strong Iranian influence apparent within council,'' the report says. There is ''ethnic conflict in north Babil,'' and ''crime is a major factor within the province.'' In addition, ''unemployment remains high.''
 Throughout the war, American commanders have repeatedly tried to pacify northern Babil, a farming area with a virulent Sunni Arab insurgency, but they have had little success. In southern Babil, the new threat is Shiite militiamen who are pushing up from Shiite strongholds like Najaf and Karbala and beginning to develop rivalries among themselves.
 Gen. Qais Hamza al-Maamony, the commander of Babil's 8,000-member police force, said his officers were not ready yet to intervene between warring militias, should it come to that, as many fear. ''They would be too frightened to get into the middle,'' he said in an interview.
 If the American troops left Babil, he said, ''the next day would be civil war.''


Economy
1 -- Critical: No infrastructure or government leadership to support development.
7 -- Serious: Economic development is stagnant with high unemployment.
7 -- Moderate: Developing slowly, but unemployment still a serious concern.
3 -- Stable: Strong economic development that supports job creation.

Maps of Iraq highlight provinces (provinces are sized roughly in proportion to their populations).

(pg. 14)

Map of Iraq highlights the overall stability in each province, ranking them as follows:
Critical
Serious
Moderate
Stable

A recent assessment by American officials in Baghdad of the situation in Iraq. Provinces are sized roughly in proportion to their populations.

(pg. 1)


GRAPHIC: Photo: A report on Iraq's stability cited serious concerns in Basra, above, where residents recently gathered to pray and to demand security and services. (Photo by Atef Hassan/Reuters)(pg. 14)Chart: ''A Provincial Report Card''Based on a recent assessment by American diplomatic and military officials in Baghdad.NUMBER OF PROVINCES IN EACH CATEGORYGovernment0 -- Critical: Not functioning, not formed or only has a single strong leader.5 -- Serious: Not fully formed or not capable of serving needs of the population.8 -- Moderate: Functions, but has areas of concern like ability to deliver services and sectarianism.5 -- Stable: Fully functioning.Security1 -- Critical: High levels of insurgent activity, assassinations and extremism.6 -- Serious: Routine insurgent activity, assassinations and extremism.5 -- Moderate: Under control, but could quickly become unstable.6 -- Stable: Local security forces maintain the rule of law.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); WRITERS (88%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); IRAQ WAR (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); TERRORISM (66%) Shiite Muslims; Sunni Muslims; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Eric Schmitt; Edward Wong; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (96%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



218 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: Denver Board Gives Approval To Transit Deal

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: DENVER, April 8 

 BODY:
The executive board of the city's mass transit system unanimously approved a new labor contract Saturday, clearing the way for all bus and train service to resume by the work week. 
 Striking bus drivers, train operators and mechanics overwhelmingly approved the contract on Friday. ''I think they're very happy to be back to work,'' said Yvette Salazar, president of Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1001. Ms. Salazar said 82 percent of the union voters supported the agreement.
Gilbert G. Sisneros, 58, a 30-year transit agency employee who voted in favor of the contract, said, ''It is as well as can be expected for the economy that we're in today.'' 
 Although the latest deal was worth the same as previous offers -- $15.3 million -- workers will get more of it in the first part of the three-year contract, officials said. Union officials said workers wanted more upfront money built into the contract because their wages had been frozen for three years.
 ''My main issue was they asked us for a three-year freeze, and then we took that,'' said George Abraham, a 37-year-old bus operator. ''We've sacrificed a lot for the company, and we deserve more than what we're getting.''
 Under terms reached Wednesday in a session with a federal mediator, workers will get a wage increase of $1.80 an hour over three years. The agency will increase its contribution to health insurance by $20 a month and pay more into a health-and-welfare trust fund.
 About 1,750 members of the Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1001 walked off the job on Monday after rejecting a previous proposal.
 Although the transit agency operated about 45 percent of its bus service during the strike, thousands of commuters resorted to alternate transportation to get around. The additional traffic clogged major interstates. 
 The five-day strike was the Denver area's first in 24 years. The transportation district averages about 275,000 rides a day on bus and light-rail routes in the area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (92%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (90%); TRAINS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); STRIKES (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (64%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%) Transit Systems; Strikes ; Organized Labor; Labor; Wages and Salaries

ORGANIZATION: AMALGAMATED TRANSIT UNION (83%) Amalgamated Transit Union

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (94%) COLORADO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Denver (Colo)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



219 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: French Unrest Reflects Old Faith in Quasi-Socialist Ideals 

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH

DATELINE: PARIS, April 8 

 BODY:
Standing amid the chaos of the protests here this week, Omar Sylla, 22, tried to explain why the French are so angry about what seems to many people like such a small thing: the French government's attempt to loosen labor laws a bit by allowing employers the right to fire young workers without cause during a trial period on the job.
 Even after President Jacques Chirac promised to shorten the period to one year from two, the protests continued, and French students and unions have vowed to keep demonstrating until the law is repealed.
''We need less precariousness, not more,'' said Mr. Sylla, the son of immigrants from Ivory Coast, who still lives with his parents in a government-subsidized apartment in a working-class suburb of Paris. 
 Mr. Sylla said he had searched for years for a job before finding work about a month ago as a baggage handler at Charles de Gaulle International Airport. Even then, he said, he only got the job because his sister works at the airport and pulled strings on his behalf. 
 But Mr. Sylla could secure only a three-month contract, with the promise of a six-month contract to follow if he did well. After that, he said, he will be on the street again, looking for a job.
 ''We only want to work,'' he muttered, as younger men in hoods charged past toward a confrontation with riot police. The demonstration soon deteriorated into flying bottles, stones and tear gas and clubs.
 France's government has argued that the hotly contested new labor law will encourage companies to hire more young people, giving them a chance to prove themselves and land permanent jobs. 
 But opponents say the new measure will just make it easier for employers to hire cheap, disposable labor and keep young people like Mr. Sylla turning in an unsteady netherworld of partial employment.
 That may sound like basic market economics to Americans, but while most of the world struggles to cope with the shifting threats and opportunities of an increasingly global economy, much of Europe, and France in particular, remains devoted to a quasi-socialist ideal.
 Few French people say they want a major change, arguing that their approach, cumbersome and costly as it may be, makes for a healthier, more humane society. 
 Bad as France's recent unrest has been, for example, some people argue that it has never reached the level of violence seen during periods of unrest in American cities. A more equitable social welfare system could be one reason, they say.
 France's defenders argue that its great successes are overlooked; the country continues to draw large amounts of foreign direct investment -- in 2003, it received more than the United States, Britain, Germany or Japan, according to figures from the Organization for Economic Development and Cooperation. 
 The organization also ranked France at the top in terms of productivity -- economic output per hour worked -- among the Group of 7 industrialized nations in 2004. 
 The World Health Organization rated the French health care system the best of any of its members in 2000.
 ''We are not ready to give it up,'' said Sylvie Goulard, a political science professor at France's Center for International Studies and Research. ''The only thing is, we cannot afford it in this form.''
 France's biggest problem has been persistent and high unemployment, particularly among the country's new minorities, which include people like Mr. Sylla.
 French society is far more tightly regulated than American society, and for most people the worker-employer relationship is defined by one of more than a dozen kinds of contract. The contracts, meanwhile, refer to a larger body of labor laws and collective bargaining agreements that have been developed through decades of negotiation among France's unions, its employers and its government.
 The legal protections and generous benefits afforded under the multilayered labor laws and contract agreements have made companies reluctant to take on new workers.
 Many companies prefer instead to hire young people on short-term contracts of up to 18 months to avoid giving them the full benefits and job protections due permanent employees.
 But short-term contracts cause employers other problems: companies can only offer the same employee two such contracts in a row, after which they must wait a period before hiring the person again. And firing workers hired under the contracts is prohibited except in cases of gross misconduct. Employers must also pay short-term workers a ''precariousness premium'' of 10 percent of their wages.
 Worse for employers, because the short-term contracts are legally only intended for temporary jobs, companies run the risk of an employee's declaring that the contract has been abused and demanding that he or she be reclassified as a permanent employee, making them expensive and hard to get rid of.
 Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin intended to align the law with reality by giving employers a simpler and more legally sound way to hire young workers on a trial basis without immediately exposing companies to the costly benefits and protections that make hiring and firing in France so daunting.
 First he created the ''new employment contract,'' which gives companies with 20 employees or fewer the right to fire new workers without cause during their first two years on the job. When it met only moderate resistance, he introduced the ''first employment contract,'' which was identical except that it could be used by all companies and applied only to employees 25 or younger.
 That woke people up.
 The French youth, angry at being singled out, quickly built a nationwide protest movement, and the unions have fallen into formation behind them.
 ''For the employees concerned, these contracts effectively annul the collective bargaining agreements during this new legal trial period, and that is something very new in French law and very shocking for the unions,'' said Isabelle D'Aubenton, a lawyer who helps companies navigate French labor laws. 
 The laws defining the contracts represent two steps backward from the secure and benevolent working environment that the French have labored so long to create.
 For many people, the changes also represent a betrayal by the French state. Ever since the French Revolution, the state has been expected to ensure equality among its citizens and protect the rights of its lower classes -- even though it continues to be controlled by the social elite.
 ''The role of the state isn't to liberalize the market, but, on the contrary, to make sure that workers are taken care of,'' said Jean-Daniel Levy, a director at the polling company CSA. ''In France, what we ask for is not that the state withdraw, but that it be as present as possible.''
 The fact that someone has the right to fire a worker or that workers serve at someone else's pleasure resonates uncomfortably with absolute monarchy, some experts say. 
 ''There remains in the French imagination a sense of the sans-culotte against the castle,'' said Philippe d'Iribarne, author of ''French Strangeness.'' ''It's tied to the national mythology.''
 ''In the American imagination, the relationship between a worker and employer is that of a supplier and a client,'' Mr. d'Iribarne said. ''It's normal for there to be a trial period during which the supplier must prove to a new client that he can deliver.''
 But he said the French do not share that vision. 
 ''In France, when people work,'' he said, ''they say they have a 'situation,' which they expect to endure for life.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); RIOTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (77%); IMMIGRATION (74%); CHILDREN (74%); AIRPORTS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (54%) Labor; Demonstrations and Riots; Law and Legislation; Unemployment; Children and Youth; Hiring and Promotion

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (58%) Craig S Smith

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%) France

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



220 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Senate's Failure to Agree on Immigration Plan Angers Workers and Employers Alike

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH and JENNIFER STEINHAUER; Abby Goodnough reported from Immokalee, Fla., for this article, and Jennifer Steinhauer from New York. Terry Aguayo contributed reporting from Immokalee, Brenda Goodman from Georgia and Chris Maag from Ohio.

 BODY:
Until it collapsed on Friday, a compromise immigration plan in the Senate offered Rigoberto Morales a chance to reach his dream of becoming an American citizen. 
 Mr. Morales had worked eight years in the sun-baked fields of Immokalee, Fla., in the southern part of the state, picking tomatoes, evading the authorities, and sending most of his earnings to his mother and daughter in Mexico. The Senate plan would have allowed Mr. Morales, 25, to apply for permanent residency because he has lived here more than five years.
But as tantalizing as the possibility was, Mr. Morales said he never really believed Congress would solve his plight. 
 ''It's a very bad thing because we're working very hard here and there's no support from the government,'' he said, standing outside a dreary shack where he lives with his wife and three other tomato pickers, all illegal immigrants from Mexico. ''We're only working. We're not committing a sin.'' 
 Many of the nation's approximately 11 million illegal immigrants -- as well as their employers -- have long sought some of the major provisions in the Senate proposal, which failed amid partisan rancor. 
 In interviews, employers and illegal workers said the bill would have offered significant improvement, and several said the failure of the compromise was a lost opportunity.
 ''This is disappointing,'' said Edward Overdevest, president of Overdevest Nurseries in Bridgeton, N.J. ''I think it is a setback for reason, it is a setback for common sense.''
 Mr. Overdevest said the Senate had failed to solve a problem that has been festering for years. 
 Mr. Overdevest and other employers who rely on an existing guest worker program that is smaller than what was proposed had hoped that the Senate would address the reams of red tape they say have plagued the program. 
 Antonia Fuentes, a Mexican who has picked tomatoes in Immokalee for two years, said legal status, even as a guest worker, would have allowed her to breathe easier even though life would have remained hard. ''We live here in fear,'' said Ms. Fuentes, 18. ''We fear Immigration will come, and many people just don't go out.'' 
 Yet she and others were wary of a provision in the Senate plan that would have forced illegal immigrants who have been here from two to five years to return home and then apply for temporary work in the United States. A million immigrants who have been here illegally for less than two years would have had to leave with little promise of returning. 
 Paulino Pineda, a community college custodian in Perrysburg, Ohio, outside Toledo, said any bill that did not provide amnesty to all illegal immigrants was flawed.
 ''It's not a democratic solution,'' said Mr. Pineda, 65, who moved to the United States from the Dominican Republic in 1992 and sends money home to his 11 children. ''If people come here, work very hard, do everything they're told to do, and then when they're not needed anymore they're told to take your things and go back, they might as well be slaves.''
 According to the Department of Labor, the United States economy will add about five million jobs in businesses like retail, food service and landscaping over the next decade, with not enough American workers to meet the need.
 Many employers -- especially in industries that rely on large numbers of unskilled laborers -- had embraced the idea of a guest-worker program. They said it would stabilize the workforce, reduce the high cost of turnover and perhaps increase the number of workers available. 
 But others said an expanded guest-worker program would bring higher costs and more paperwork, and were cheered by the Senate bill's defeat. 
 ''Yay!'' said Jay Taylor, president of Taylor & Fulton, a tomato grower in Florida, Maryland and Virginia, who said that the bill was too hastily drafted and that Congress had not grasped the complexity of the issue. Mr. Taylor said guest workers should be able to come and go as they pleased, with freedom to earn wages in this country but no promise of citizenship or benefits.
 ''It was a dinner cooked in a pressure cooker,'' said Mr. Taylor, who employs nearly 1,000 immigrants. ''What we need is something that comes out of a crock pot. We need something that is well thought out, well planned and well executed, and in the atmosphere we are in today on this subject, we're not going to get that kind of situation.''
 Judith Ingalls, a vice president at Fortune Contract Inc., a carpet maker in Dalton, Ga., did not find many of the provisions in the Senate bill practical, particularly those that would have required longtime immigrants to learn English and to pay fines.
 ''It is crazy to listen to this whole debate when you live here and see what is happening,'' Ms. Ingalls said. ''Nothing I have heard out of Washington works.''
 Many employers, too, oppose any provision that would penalize them for hiring illegal workers, knowingly or not. Some expressed concern about the provision that would have granted citizenship to immigrants who had been in the United States for at least five years, saying it might have encouraged them to quit or be less productive. 
 ''The illegals are probably better workers than the legal ones,'' said Mike Gonya, who farms 2,800 acres of wheat and vegetables near Fremont, Ohio. ''The legal ones know the system. They know legal recourse. The illegal ones will bust their butts.''
 Some employers, especially in agriculture, say keeping full operations in the United States will not be viable without an overhaul of the system. 
 Jack Vessey, who runs a garlic-production company in El Centro, Calif., said stricter border enforcement and competition with other agriculture businesses had lengthened his harvest season by months and left him shorthanded.
 ''We don't have the people to work,'' Mr. Vessey said. 
 Agricultural businesses, with their mostly migrant workforce, are the proverbial canaries in the coal mine of immigration. With some local governments searching for ways to stem illegal immigration, other businesses fear that time is running out. 
 ''Disruptions in agriculture could cause disruptions in our own workforce,'' said John Gay, vice president for government affairs at the National Restaurant Association, which said it did not have enough workers to deal with the industry's projected growth over the next few years. ''We have been muddling through with this don't-ask-don't-tell policy we've had, but it's not sustainable.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: THE EMPLOYER -- Mike Gonya, a farmer in Ohio, said amnesty would only make immigrants less productive. (Photo by Amy E. Voight for The New York Times)
IMMIGRANT WORK FORCE -- Luis Palacios, Margarita Espinosa and Gloria Rodriguez work at a poultry processing plant in Gainesville, Ga. (Photo by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)
SEEKING RESPECT -- Paulino Pineda, 65, a janitor in Perrysburg, Ohio, said illegal workers ''might as well be slaves'' if they did not receive amnesty. (Photo by J. D. Pooley for The New York Times)
 FLORIDA MIGRANTS -- Celestino Gonzalez Montezuma lives at a camp for agriculture workers in the tomato-farming region of Immokalee, Fla. (Photo by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (96%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); REFUGEES (78%); FARM LABOR (77%); INTERVIEWS (70%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (69%); AMNESTY (68%) Immigration and Refugees; Law and Legislation; Illegal Immigrants; Law and Legislation; Law and Legislation; Labor; Citizenship; Immigration and Refugees

PERSON: Abby Goodnough; Jennifer Steinhauer

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (50%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (93%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



221 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Oxford Journal; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: An Iowa Town's Story Told In Portraits 21 Years Apart

BYLINE: By NINA SIEGAL

DATELINE: OXFORD, Iowa 

 BODY:
Ben Stoker was only a few weeks old when Peter Feldstein took his picture in 1984, so tiny that his father held him aloft, head cradled in one palm. In another portrait by Mr. Feldstein, taken last year, Ben stands at more than six feet tall, a lanky man in long, baggy shorts, a T-shirt and a backward baseball cap.
 ''When I was 10 the man holding me -- my dad -- died,'' reads the text that accompanies the photographs. ''He was an architect and had renal failure; he was a fantastic father. Pretty much I think about my dad every day. I remember feeling his beard against my face as a little boy.''
 ''Two years ago when I was 19, my mother died of cancer. She was my guiding light,'' the text continues. 
 ''I'd be a liar if I said that everything is all right.''
 Mr. Stoker is one of 670 people Mr. Feldstein photographed in 1984 as part of the Oxford Project, an effort to document small-town Iowa life through the images and words of its people. At the time, Oxford, a town in eastern Iowa, had 676 residents. Last year, Mr. Feldstein picked up his camera again, beginning a new series of portraits of the same people -- or, at least, those who had not died or moved away.
 ''Iowa is always the butt of the jokes when people think of country folk or hicks,'' said Mr. Feldstein, 63, who grew up in New York but has lived in Oxford for 27 years. ''I think people in Iowa defy those stereotypes. The people here have much more breadth to them than that.''
 Mr. Feldstein plans to show parts of the Oxford Project at the Des Moines Arts Center next February.
 Oxford now has a population of about 725. Strangers driving into the town center -- off Iowa Highway 6, past the rippling American flag and the dilapidated barn -- will be noticed immediately, if not by sight then by the sound of their unfamiliar car. For many people here, familiarity does not breed contempt, but rather a sense of security.
 ''A lot of people don't like small towns because they're so tight knit,'' Mr. Stoker said in an interview. ''But that's what makes the place so great. You know who's sleeping with whom, but when your mother dies you know there will be 28 people at your door with casseroles.''
 Mr. Feldstein says he was originally inspired by the 1940's and 1950's photographs of Mike Meyer, also known as Mike Disfarmer, who, Mr. Feldstein said, ''took straightforward, no-frills, but generous portraits of local farmers.'' Mr. Feldstein's pictures are full-body portraits set against a plain backdrop -- a gray dropcloth in 1984, a concrete wall in the recent shots, in which the subject stands casually facing forward. 
 Stephen Bloom, 54, an author and journalism professor at the nearby University of Iowa, has conducted interviews with Mr. Feldstein's subjects, distilling their comments into short prose poems. He said his model for the text came from ''Let Us Now Praise Famous Men,'' the 1941 photojournalistic account by James Agee and Walker Evans of three Depression-era Southern sharecropper families.
 The project has brought to light several personal histories.
 One lifelong Oxford resident, Jim Hoyt, who lives on the same plot of land where he was born, was one of the first four American soldiers to liberate the Nazi concentration camp at Buchenwald on April 11, 1945. As the replacement radio operator for the Sixth Armored Division, Mr. Hoyt went unawares into the death camp, and radioed back to his commander just one word: ''Horror.''
 Mr. Hoyt, the only surviving member of that reconnaissance team, still has nightmares about what he saw that day, including a lampshade made of human skin that the wife of an SS officer had made after admiring a tattoo on a living inmate's chest. Before being drafted into the Army, Mr. Hoyt had never left the state of Iowa. 
 ''The farthest I got to go was to Des Moines for the county spelling bee -- I fell down on either 'archives' or 'irascible,' I don't remember,'' he said.
 Darrel Lindley, 73, was not born in Oxford, but he has become as much a part of the landscape as the russet haystacks that squat like cats in these empty winter fields. As Oxford's primary livestock butcher, Mr. Lindley has slaughtered hogs, cattle, goats and buffalo for local farmers for 30 years -- about 3,000 a year at his peak.
 ''I shoot 'em, bleed 'em, then skin 'em,'' reads the text between Mr. Feldstein's 1984 portrait of Mr. Lindley, in jeans and a cowboy hat and a dark mustache, and the 2006 image of him with salt-and-pepper hair, in billowy camouflage pants that emphasize his larger belly. ''One thing I do if kids are around is I cut out the eye (it's a little smaller than a golf ball) and I swish it around in my mouth.''
 Changes in the rural economy since the farm crisis of the 1980's have changed more than just Mr. Lindley's looks. ''That farm butchering hasn't ever recovered,'' said his wife, Kathleen, 72, over salmon casserole and lima beans at a weekly dinner at St. Mary's Roman Catholic Church. ''A lot of people just got out of the livestock business. They got completely out of hogs, or they stopped slaughtering on the farm. Darrel still went to work, but he didn't do near as many heads.''
 Mr. Lindley said farm consolidation had indeed taken some of his business. Still, there is work to be had. ''Sometimes I get a critter with a broken leg so I go out and do it,'' he said. ''Sometimes, they call me if one gets away from them, wild or something. I shot one at 60 yards the other day. I've shot them at 110 yards, but not recently.''
 One of the town's oldest residents is Iowa Honn, who turned 96 on April 1. Mrs. Honn was born in Oxford, and she said her father named her Iowa because ''he said I was the prettiest girl in the prettiest state.'' She has only lived outside of Oxford for three years, when she moved to Iowa City, about 15 miles east, with a current population of about 60,000. 
 ''I hated every minute of it,'' Mrs. Honn said. ''I hated city life. I traveled some with my husband, but I liked best when I got home and I could kiss the ground here.''
 Mr. Bloom said he hoped the Oxford portraits would give voice to a forgotten population. ''So many people call this flyover country,'' he said. ''No one listens to rural America. They are the ignored. My hope is that this project will be able to show that there's great rural poetry and rural wisdom.''
 To Mr. Lindley, the logic of living in a town like this is simple: ''There's just good people here. Most of all, they've got a minute for you, even if it takes an hour.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Photographs of Ben Stoker, taken in 1984 when he was just a few weeks old and in 2005, after he turned 21. Both his parents have died. ''I was very angry with God,'' Mr. Stoker wrote in an essay with the portraits. ''He came in and took my father and then he took the other person I loved most in the world.'' (Portraits by Peter Feldstein)
 Peter Feldstein photographed the residents of Oxford, Iowa, in 1984. He began doing it again last year. (Photo by Jason A. Cook for The New York Times) Map of Iowa highlighting Oxford: Oxford, Iowa, population about 725, has grown little since 1984.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (75%); CITY LIFE (71%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (70%); INTERVIEWS (60%) Photography

PERSON: Nina Siegal; peter feldstein

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) oxford (iowa); Iowa

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



222 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Class-Action Lawsuit to Be Filed Over SAT Scoring Errors

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON

 BODY:
Three Minnesota law firms have begun a class-action lawsuit against the College Board and one of its contractors over scoring errors for thousands of students who took the SAT last October.
 Papers were served Friday for a suit in state court in Hennepin County, Minn. Officials say it is the first legal action in the matter; a handful of other firms have expressed interest in the case.
 The College Board disclosed last month that 4,411 students out of about 500,000 who took the SAT reasoning test in October received incorrect scores. The errors were partly due to moisture that interfered with the scanning of the students' answer sheets by Pearson Educational Measurement, the company that handled that part of the scoring for the College Board. Pearson's parent company, NCS Pearson Inc., is based in Minnesota. 
 ''The College Board contracted with Pearson despite the fact that Pearson is no stranger to botching test scores,'' the 48-page complaint said.
 The board said most of the students received scores that were too low, some by as much as 450 points of a maximum possible 2,400, and those scores were being corrected. It also said that about 600 students received scores that were too high, by as much as 50 points, but that under board policy, those scores were not corrected.
 Some college admissions officers have criticized that policy, which the board has said it is reviewing.
 Chiarra Coletti, a spokeswoman for the College Board, and David R. Hakensen, a spokesman for Pearson, said yesterday that they could not comment on the suit.
 T. Joseph Snodgrass, a partner at Larson King in St. Paul, one of the three firms bringing the suit, said the lead plaintiff was a high school senior from Dix Hills, N.Y., on Long Island, who received an incorrect score when he took the exam. The student was not identified in the suit.
 Mr. Snodgrass said yesterday that the firms planned to seek an injunction requiring the College Board to correct the inflated scores as well as those that were too low.
 ''It is unfair that regular students have to compete against those students with inflated scores for admission, scholarships and financial aid,'' Mr. Snodgrass said.
 The suit defined two classes of students: those who received mistaken scores ''and everybody else who has to compete against the students with inflated scores,'' he said. That may amount to millions of students who applied to college this year, he said.
 Robert A. Schaeffer, public education director for FairTest, a group that says standardized tests are relied on too heavily, said more than half a dozen other law firms were working on similar suits.
 ''Our hope is that this lawsuit will finally get to the bottom of what really happened,'' Mr. Schaeffer said, ''and why it took so long for the College Board to make the problem public.''
 The board has said it was alerted to the problem by two students who questioned the scores they received in December; after finding that their tests were misscored, the board investigated and learned the problem was widespread.
 The three law firms -- Larson King, and Zimmerman Reed and McSweeney & Fay, both of Minneapolis -- joined in another suit against Pearson over a misscored state test in 2000 that kept some students from graduating with their class. In 2002, Pearson settled it for $12 million, with about $7 million for students and $4.5 million in lawyers' fees.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 11, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about a class-action lawsuit over the faulty scoring of some October SAT exams misspelled the given name of a spokeswoman for the College Board. (The error also occurred in an article on March 23.) The spokeswoman is Chiara Coletti, not Chiarra.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (93%); CLASS ACTIONS (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); LAWYERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); GRADE INFLATION (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); INJUNCTIONS (73%) Colleges and Universities; Tests and Testing; Suits and Litigation; Sat (College Admission Test)

COMPANY: PEARSON VUE (69%)

ORGANIZATION: THE COLLEGE BOARD (94%) College Board; Pearson Educational Measurement Co; larson king (law firm); zimmerman reed (law firm); mcsweeney & fay (law firm)

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (69%)

PERSON: Karen W Arenson

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



223 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: A 1965 Trailer Goes on the Road, and Catskill Residents Go on the Air

BYLINE: By MICHELLE YORK

DATELINE: ROSCOE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Just after dawn on a recent misty morning, dozens of fishermen were pulling on their waders and gathering their poles along the banks of the Beaverkill River to prepare for the opening of trout season. In a parking lot across the road, a conversation was emanating from speakers hung outside a little vintage trailer.
 A woman walked by, and a voice from the speaker beckoned: ''Lisa Lyons, come on in here.'' 
Ms. Lyons obeyed. She strode past red-and-white lawn chairs arranged in front of the red-and-white trailer and went up to the plastic welcome mat outside its door, remarking, ''Have you ever walked down the street and heard your name called over a loudspeaker?''
 Increasingly, the people of the Catskills have. One of its residents, Sabrina Artel of Liberty, is the voice from the speaker. She travels about with her 1965 Bee Line trailer to create her independent, on-location radio program, ''Trailer Talk'' -- an unusual blend of theater, activism and broadcast journalism that, has drawn in celebrities and townspeople alike. 
 Ms. Artel schedules many of her guests in advance. Some, like Ms. Lyons, an acquaintance, she spots through the windows. Often, curious passers-by linger outside until she invites them in, and they become part of the show. 
 Once inside, she has the guest sit across from her at the small kitchen booth. Studio microphones and homemade brownies sit on the table between them. Then she interviews them, recording the conversations so they can be broadcast later on the community radio station called Radio Catskill, WJFF-FM (90.5).
 Her live audiences, gathered outside where speakers broadcast the dialogue, range from a handful of people to hundreds, depending on the weather and location.
 Richard A. Bradley, a master fishing reel-maker and Trailer Talk guest, said he had seen the trailer around and wondered, ''Who is she talking to?''
 Ms. Artel calls Trailer Talk a ''performative interview.'' Much of her work is done in the Catskills, where she focuses on events that highlight small-town struggles. But Ms. Artel has taken her trailer around the country and to Washington, D.C., for demonstrations including an antiwar protest last fall, when she used her forceful personality to persuade the police to let her little trailer stay among the network satellite trucks on Constitution Avenue.
 It is easier for her to travel to New York City. She has parked her trailer outside theaters, once luring an interview from Rosie O'Donnell, who had peeked in the window, and at protests at the 2004 Republican National Convention. Ms. Lyons assessed Ms. Artel's role. ''At first you see her as a journalist,'' she said, ''but as you become more aware of the events she chooses, you understand her as an activist.''
 Ms. Artel, who declined to give her age, is an actress by training. After growing up in the San Fernando Valley of California, she moved to the East Coast to study and begin her career. ''Sabrina has a gift for making people feel comfortable,'' said her sister, Renee Petropoulos, an artist in Los Angeles. ''Whenever she was traveling and would get on a bus, she would get to know all of the stories of the people around her.''
 But it was the experience of working with a theater artist, Reza Abdoh, from 1990 until his death of AIDS in 1995, and putting on performances in unusual spaces, including storefronts, warehouses and side streets, that greatly influenced her.
 Ms. Artel bought a weekend home in Liberty, in the Catskills about 85 miles northwest of Midtown Manhattan, nearly 13 years ago and gradually became more involved in the community, eventually deciding to live there full time.
 She began her relationship with WJFF by working on two talk shows. About four years ago, she spotted the little trailer, which is charming in a Herbie-the-Love-Bug sort of way. ''I just knew I needed it,'' she said. 
 Ms. Artel added studio-recording equipment and took ''Trailer Talk'' on the road in 2003. As an independent producer, she pays for production through her own funds and private sponsors. Earlier this year, she received a $10,000 grant from the New York State Council on the Arts. 
 ''Trailer Talk'' is included on ''Making Waves,'' one of her weekly radio programs, which is broadcast on Mondays at 8:30 p.m. Though Ms. Artel's ability to talk is the stuff of family legend, she was able to do more listening on her program in Roscoe on a recent Saturday. The conversations were as varied as the flies used by the fishermen downstream, touching on environment policy, the Catskill economy, race relations, the secrets of staying upbeat in later life, and ''the crazy Allie'' -- the name Allie Phelan, at 7 the youngest fisherman in sight, gave to her homemade trout-fishing flies.
 Allie did not appear daunted by the radio interview. ''It was good,'' she said afterward, adding, ''But I've been in newspapers since I was five.''
 Later, the actor Rip Torn, who was fishing nearby, dropped by to talk about his love of fishing and how he writes a clause into movie contracts allowing him to fish when he is not needed on the set. ''It's miserable be on the Snake River in Yellowstone'' and not fish, he said, adding that assistants have fretted that he will fall in the water. ''No, I won't fall in the water,'' he said he tells them. ''It's in my contract.''
 After nearly three hours of nonstop interviews, Ms. Artel packed up and headed to nearby Liberty for her next event.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sabrina Artel, wearing headphones, spends some time with peace activists in Liberty, N.Y., for a broadcast of her show, ''Trailer Talk.'' People often gather outside the trailer to listen to the show. (Photo by Bill Wingell for The New York Times)Map of New York State highlighting Roscoe: Roscoe was the site of a recent ''Trailer Talk'' radio show.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (87%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (87%); INTERVIEWS (87%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); MOUNTAINS (73%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); PUBLIC RADIO (72%); JOURNALISM (72%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (67%); WRITERS (66%); CITY LIFE (66%); CITIES (66%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (64%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (50%) Radio; Mobile Homes and Trailers

PERSON: Sabrina Artel; Michelle York

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (87%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Catskill Mountains; New York State

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



224 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; COLLEGE FOOTBALL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: For the People or the Powerful? Skybox Plan Divides Michigan

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE

 BODY:
Bill Martin, the director of athletics at the University of Michigan, does not like the term ''luxury boxes.'' He said he did not necessarily want to build private rooms of elite seats atop the flowing rows of bleacher benches that rise gently skyward from the football field of Michigan Stadium in Ann Arbor.
 ''I use the term 'enclosed seating,' '' Martin said in a recent interview. ''It doesn't have to be all a bunch of little cubicles. The motivation to build enclosed seating is to pay for fixing the infrastructure of the bowl itself and updating this 80-year-old grand old lady. It's not to build luxury boxes.''
But opponents of the renovation say that enclosed seating is simply a euphemism for luxury boxes. They say that adding such seating would amount to a small neighborhood of exclusive little cottages atop what is affectionately called the Big House, which has a seating capacity of 107,501. 
 They say the renovation would permanently change the egalitarian personality of one of the nation's most famous college sports stadiums. No formal proposal has been presented on the public agenda before the university's eight-member Board of Regents, although ideas have circulated and debate has been spirited behind closed doors.
 Most members of the Big Ten Conference, and many other colleges, have added exclusive and high-priced football seating in recent years, part of a trend to find ways to add revenue in college sports. Opponents of the installation of exclusive seating at Michigan Stadium said it was a drift toward professionalism and commercialism, all the more reason to oppose it.
 John Pollack, a New York City resident who is the son of a Michigan professor, is leading the opposition with a grass-roots campaign called Save the Big House. Among his allies are Fielding H. Yost III, the grandson of the legendary Michigan football coach, and James J. Duderstadt, a former president of the university and a current professor of science and engineering.
 ''You are taking the classic football stadium in America and turning it into every N.F.L. venue,'' said Pollack, a former speechwriter for President Bill Clinton. ''It will ruin the stadium architecturally. To enshrine wealth and power in glass and steel at the leading public institution totally undermines the values of the university itself.''
 On March 23, the debate intensified when a letter from 33 current and former faculty members was sent to the Regents. It warned of ''lavish entertainment facilities for a privileged few'' and of ''the growing stratification of our society and a sad corruption of our university's defining traditions.''
 Duderstadt, who was president of the university from 1988 to 1996, was among those who signed the letter. He said Friday in a telephone interview from Ann Arbor that the university was founded ''primarily to serve the working class'' and that exclusive seating would send the wrong message.
 Rather than add boxes, Duderstadt said, Michigan Stadium could expand upward with more rows of common seating, similar to what was done to Notre Dame Stadium a few years ago. John Heisler, a senior associate athletics director at Notre Dame, said in an e-mail message that Notre Dame ''made a conscious decision not to enter into the sky-box business'' because it is a professional sports concept.
 Martin, Michigan's athletic director, said revenue from covered seating would finance a major renovation needed throughout the stadium, which opened in 1927.
 Last year, Michigan began to sell seat licenses for prime locations. This fall, the top price for a seat license will be $500. 
 ''When I came in six years ago, we had a deficit of $5 million,'' Martin said of the athletic budget. ''I fixed it through bells and whistles.''
 Martin said the stadium, despite its mystique and history, was ''economically and functionally obsolete.'' He said that the revenue from new seating would pay for construction of wider aisles, more restrooms, better concession stands and improved access for the handicapped. He said surveys showed that fans want these amenities.
 ''We have to update the infrastructure,'' Martin said, adding that his department is spending $8 million for routine repair of concrete. Work has been going on at the stadium; a few large cranes and several sections with benches removed were visible on a recent visit.
 ''We want to improve the environment and the game-day experience for everyone who attends the games,'' Martin said. ''I do have to pay for updating Michigan Stadium, and there is no other economic model that I know of to do it.''
 No cost estimate has been made public, although Duderstadt said he had heard the project could cost as much as $300 million.
 Mary Sue Coleman, president of the university, said: ''There's been no serious investment in the infrastructure in 50 years. We don't have a workable plan yet. There are a lot of options on the table.'' 
 The Regents, who are publicly elected, meet April 21.
 Athletic departments at other Big Ten universities reported generally favorable results from their new seating and said they had little opposition to their construction. Bill Jones, the senior director of ticketing at Ohio State, said it was an ''unbelievable success'' to build 81 suites. Each suite has as many as 16 seats and leases for as much as $75,000 a season.
 ''The suites generate $6.5 million annually,'' Jones said, adding that ''club seats,'' which are outside the suites, generate $4.5 million. He said the biggest demand on the waiting list is for the suites, which are mostly isolated from the public concourses.
 ''You don't have every Tom, Dick and Harry walking down the hall just trying to see who they know,'' Jones said.
 Ron Mason, the athletics director at Michigan State, reported less success. He said that 17 of 24 new suites were sold last season, but only 277 of 830 club seats. Mason said he expected sales to improve this fall.
 He said an unforeseen bonus was the popularity of the restaurant area attached to the club seating. The restaurant is rented year-round for corporate parties and wedding receptions and will eventually generate $250,000 in revenue outside football, Mason said.
 One contentious issue, he said, was alcohol, which is banned in the common seating but allowed in the boxes. Opponents of suites at Michigan have predicted that the university will face pressure to allow alcohol there and that it could alter the atmosphere in the stadium.
 Tim Curley, director of athletics at Penn State, said that a $93 million renovation of Beaver Stadium, which was completed in 2001, included 60 new suites. He said that ''it went very smoothly,'' with little opposition.
 At Wisconsin, the associate athletic director John Chadima said that 72 new suites were sold out and that there was a waiting list.
 ''There are liquor sales throughout the premium seating areas,'' he said, adding that money from leasing the suites helped pay for a renovation that included making wider concourses. He said that Scott Draper, an assistant athletic director for football at Michigan, had visited Wisconsin to study the renovations.
 Chadima said that Wisconsin fans ''were very thrilled'' because they knew Camp Randall Stadium in Madison was in need of a face-lift.
 ''There was not much talk about haves and have-nots,'' Chadima said. When told of the opposition at Michigan, Chadima said that he understood the feeling but that private luxury seating was ''the way of the world'' in modern sports, and that includes college stadiums.
 Pollack, who is leading the Michigan opposition, remains undeterred. He said support for Save the Big House had grown since it began in July. He produced a sheaf of printed e-mail messages generated by his Web site, savethebighouse.com.
 During an interview on a snowy spring afternoon, Pollack ate a cheeseburger and sipped a soda at a pub near his home in Greenwich Village. He had a book with him, ''The Big House: Fielding H. Yost and the Building of Michigan Stadium'' by Robert M. Soderstrom, which was published last year.
 Pollack, a season-ticket holder for Wolverines football, traces his loyalty to his days at the university's nursery school, which was part of the education department at the time. Both sides in this debate want what is best for Michigan, he said, and opponents have been civil despite their disagreement.
 Referring to his allies, who signed the letter that urged the Regents to reject the idea of luxury boxes, Pollack said that ''these guys are old-school Michigan in the best sense'' and that they ''want to protect the character of the stadium we love.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Construction workers rebuilding sections of Michigan Stadium. John Pollack of New York, a football season-ticket holder, is leading the opposition to skyboxes. (Photo by Ruby Washinton/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (63%); US PRESIDENTS (61%) Football; Stadiums and Arenas

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); BIG TEN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (54%) University of Michigan

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (52%) Joe Lapointe

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



225 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: 2 Banks Agree To Swap Units In Deal Worth $3.1 Billion

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
J.P. Morgan Chase said yesterday that it had agreed to swap its corporate trust business for virtually all of Bank of New York's branches in the metropolitan area. The $3.1 billion deal highlights the appeal and the challenges of the country's wealthiest banking market. 
 The deal will give J.P. Morgan 338 additional branches, solidifying its dominance in the area at a time when rivals like Citigroup and Bank of America are aggressively trying to expand their market share. The branches will be turned into Chase branches starting next spring. 
Bank of New York, meanwhile, will nearly double the size of its corporate trust business, which handles record-keeping for corporate debt issues. The unit has become a major part of the bank's strategy as its retail operations have struggled. 
 The transaction, which was widely expected and will be completed in the third or fourth quarter, underscores how big a battleground for deposits the region has become. 
 Banks are increasingly focused on their branches because they offer a face-to-face opportunity pitch other products to customers, like home equity loans. But rising interest rates, slowing deposit growth and competitive price pressure have made it tough for smaller banks to compete. 
 Bank of America, Wachovia and Commerce Bank have all moved aggressively into the area. And when it announced its $14.6 billion purchase of North Fork Bancorp last month, Capital One Financial said the New York market would be its focus as it moved away from credit cards to become a retail and commercial bank. 
 Bank of New York, which has not invested heavily in its branches, said that it wanted out. 
 ''When you look at the national banks competing in this marketplace and those who look to enter this marketplace,'' said Gerald L. Hassell, Bank of New York's president, ''we thought it was strategically important for us to focus'' on the trust and private banking businesses. 
 He added: ''We were going to be at a competitive disadvantage long-term.'' 
 J. P. Morgan, which already has 836 Chase branches in the region, wanted to add more. ''Retail is a very important part of the business, and it just doesn't stand on its own,'' said Charles W. Scharf, the head of retail banking. ''This is a business where market share does help you grow.''
 About 50 of the banks' branches are too close together, so many of those will likely shut down, but J. P. Morgan executives said they expected minimal job cuts.
 The move comes as James Dimon, J. P. Morgan's chairman and chief executive, is still trying to integrate systems and overhaul its branches after a 2004 merger with Bank One. ''It's a little bit early,'' Mr. Scharf conceded. ''A couple of months later would have been preferable, but we think we can get it done.'' 
 The deal gives Bank of New York a bigger overseas presence, with 15 offices abroad. ''We get very good value for our retail franchise, and we pick up a very good business that replaces the earnings that we give up,'' said Bruce W. Van Saun, Bank of New York's chief financial officer.
 Bank of New York expects a gain of $1.3 billion from the sale, with transaction costs of about $120 million; the deal will hurt earnings until 2009. J.P. Morgan anticipates an after-tax gain of between $600 and $700 million.
 To orchestrate the swap, the banks assigned values of $2.3 billion to the Bank of New York unit and $2.15 billion to the J.P. Morgan unit. J.P. Morgan will pay another $150 million in cash to make up the difference, and potentially $50 million more based on customer retention levels.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW ISSUES (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); BANK BRANCHES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); RETAIL BANKING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CITIES (77%); MARKET SHARE (75%); MERGERS (73%); CORPORATE BONDS (73%); DIVESTITURES (73%); PRIVATE BANKING (72%); DEBT FINANCING (69%); LAYOFFS (68%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (52%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) Banks and Banking; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Banks and Banking

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (92%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Morgan, J P, Chase & Co; Bank of New York

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (92%); BK (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (59%) Eric Dash

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



226 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EXECUTIVE PAY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1484 words

HEADLINE: Spotlight on Pay Could Be a Wild Card

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
THE power of sunlight as an antiseptic will be put to the test in the coming months, as the Securities and Exchange Commission completes its most significant overhaul in 14 years of the rules governing what companies must disclose about their compensation of top executives.
 Tomorrow, the commission closes the window for companies and experts to comment about the new rules, which it has promised to enact in time for the 2007 proxy season. If adopted as proposed, they would require disclosure of far more details about how compensation committees set pay for top corporate officers. They also would force companies to provide more comprehensive information about the perks, retirement packages and post-employment compensation they award to companies' most senior employees.
So far, the comments have not challenged the view that additional disclosure is needed -- no surprise, since the ideal of transparency has become as patriotic as apple pie in the post-Enron era. The big debate is not over whether to have the rules, but over how far they should go. In particular, business groups are resisting a requirement to disclose pay for highly compensated nonexecutive employees. They say that this proposed requirement -- the so-called Katie Couric clause, because it would affect many television personalities, professional athletes and other celebrities -- would be unfair and needlessly disruptive. 
 The main figure behind the rules, Christopher Cox, the S.E.C.'s chairman, has said repeatedly that the government should stay out of the business of setting executive compensation. But he says that at the very least, the new rules are likely to change the way companies go about doling out everything from bonuses to severance and retirement packages.
 ''I have a feeling that when people are forced to undress in public, they'll pay more attention to their figures,'' Mr. Cox told a meeting of the Council of Institutional Investors two weeks ago. ''When all is said and done, all of you will have far more useful tools to exercise your rights and responsibilities as shareholders.''
 But others are predicting that, despite the improved transparency, there will still be many instances of executive pay that is way out of line with performance.
 They point to such evidence as a recent poll by Watson Wyatt Worldwide, the human resources consulting firm, which found that most American companies did not have plans to change their compensation programs in response to the proposal. In the poll, of 112 compensation and human-resources executives at large public companies in February, 7 out of 10 companies said they did not plan to change their programs, 1 in 10 said they would make changes, and the rest were unsure. 
 Paula Todd, an executive compensation consultant at Towers Perrin, noted that every time disclosure has increased, ''pay has increased as well.''
 ''A lot of people intuitively believe the sunshine will reduce pay,'' Ms. Todd said. ''But many also believe the so-called Lake Wobegon effect may kick in,'' she said, referring to the observation by Garrison Keillor that all children in that mythical town are above average.
 ''The point is, if you shine a lot of light on, say, perquisites and require extensive details about corporate airlines and so forth, then suddenly every executive in America will want one,'' she said. ''That could be one of the unintended consequences of this.''
 But she added that the proposal would inevitably stimulate important discussions about compensation issues at many companies that had not considered them. Among the issues that many companies have not addressed, she said, are whether executives may buy options to hedge the value of their company stock and whether companies should impose so-called claw-back provisions that seek reimbursements from executives of performance-based bonuses when the companies are forced to restate their earnings.
 Lucian A. Bebchuk, the director of the corporate governance program at Harvard Law School who has been sharply critical of many compensation practices, says that at the very least, the near term will reveal more exorbitant pay packages, and that this may provoke a reaction from large shareholders.
 ''Because there are so many employment contracts and arrangements in place already, this is a large boat that can turn only slowly, so in the short run I expect things will look worse rather than better because a lot of stuff will come out that had not been transparent,'' said Professor Bebchuk, who has documented how executive pay is often hidden and has far outpaced compensation for other employees as well as company performance.
 Still, Professor Bebchuk predicted that over the longer term there would be changes in the way companies pay executives, in part because some kinds of compensation make little economic sense but may have been engineered to avoid the kinds of public disclosure that may soon be mandatory.
 ''Companies may stop forms of compensation that they had been doing mainly because they didn't have to disclose them,'' he said. ''Things like deferred-compensation arrangements and postretirement checks. They don't make much economic sense, and firms don't use them for other employees, including highly compensated employees. Much of those kinds of things will be reduced and moved to other forms of compensation, which would be a useful change.''
 The current rules, which last had major modifications in 1992, require companies to disclose the compensation of the chief executive and the next four highest-paid executives in management. While companies must disclose the cost of perks, there have been numerous instances in which they have been underestimated -- for example, in the use of company aircraft for personal reasons. 
 The proposed rule would require companies to disclose the pay, severance, bonus, stock and option grants and retirement packages of the chief executive, the chief financial officer, the next three highest-paid executives, and as many as three other employees who receive more than any of the first five.
 It is supposed to prod companies into providing more justification for pay packages, retirement plans, severance agreements and so-called golden parachutes -- large payments to executives when control of a company changes hands. And it would require companies to place a precise dollar value on grants of stock options and restricted stock.
 While some large investors applauded the plan, others were disappointed because it fails to give a greater voice to shareholders in setting some pay packages. And it proposes to loosen at least one area of disclosure by raising the threshold to $120,000 for reporting a business transaction between a company and an executive or relative. Such disclosures are now required for transactions of $60,000 or more.
 ''Nobody has come out against what the S.E.C. wants to do,'' said Mark Borges, a principal at Mercer Human Resource Consulting. ''The business community is supportive, but wants to make sure that the numbers that come out are right and most meaningful to investors.''
 The Business Roundtable, a group of chief executives from big companies, has endorsed the principle of greater transparency. But it is also preparing to raise concerns about several central provisions of the new rules, including the way the plan would value stock options granted to top officials and the disclosure of compensation to the company's highest-paid employees who are not members of the management team.
 ''We want to encourage the commission to develop a methodology that is fair and doesn't overstate the value of options,'' said Thomas J. Lehner, director of public policy at the Business Roundtable. ''We think if it is not done carefully it can obviously mislead people and it will generate a fair amount of attention.''
 Mr. Lehner said the roundtable would propose dropping the requirement about disclosing the income of top employees who are not part of management but receive more compensation than company leaders because it would be both disruptive inside a company and could involve the disclosure of proprietary information.
 ''The spirit of the proposal is designed to get at disclosure of compensation for senior executives,'' he said. ''If you are talking about scientists, entertainers or salesmen, they are not executives.''
 But some commission officials disagree. They say the current reporting requirements may be viewed as misleading because they suggest to investors that the listed executives are the highest-paid employees. They said that investors wanting to know how corporate money was being spent would certainly want to know who was getting the highest compensation, even if the recipients were outside senior management. And, they said, the new rule would make it difficult for companies to hide big compensation packages by changing a person's job title.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Christopher Cox (Photo by J. Scott Applewhite/A.P.)(pg. 1)
 Lucian A. Bebchuk of Harvard Law School says the short-term effect of the pay rules would be the disclosure of some exorbitant packages. (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); HUMAN RESOURCES (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ETHICS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (75%); CELEBRITIES (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%) Executives and Management; Ethics; Wages and Salaries; Pensions and Retirement Plans

COMPANY: TOWERS WATSON & CO (63%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (92%) Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: TW (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (63%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (63%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER COX (74%); KATIE COURIC (50%) Stephen Labaton

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



227 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EXECUTIVE PAY: A SPECIAL REPORT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2861 words

HEADLINE: Off to the Races Again, Leaving Many Behind

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH; Amanda Cox contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: OMAHA 

 BODY:
IN 1977, James P. Smith, a shaggy-haired 21-year-old known as Skinny, took a job as a meat grinder at what is now a ConAgra Foods pepperoni plant. At $6.40 an hour, it was among the best-paying jobs in town for a high school graduate. 
 Nearly three decades later, Mr. Smith still arrives at the same factory, shortly before his 3:30 a.m. shift. His hair has thinned; he has put on weight. Today, his union job pays him $13.25 an hour to operate the giant blenders that crush 3,600-pound blocks of pork and beef.
His earnings, which total about $28,000 a year, have not kept pace even with Omaha's low cost of living. The company eliminated bonuses about a decade ago. And now, almost 50, Mr. Smith is concerned that his $80,000 retirement nest egg will not be enough -- especially since his plant is on a list of ones ConAgra wants to sell. 
 ''I will probably have to work until I die,'' Mr. Smith said in his Nebraskan baritone.
 Not so for Bruce C. Rohde, ConAgra's former chairman and chief executive, who stepped down last September amid investor pressure. He is set for life. 
 All told, Mr. Rohde, 57, received more than $45 million during his eight years at the helm, and was given an estimated $20 million retirement package as he walked out the door. 
 Each year from 1997 to 2005, when Mr. Rohde led ConAgra, he was awarded either a large cash bonus, a generous grant of stock or options, or valuable benefits, such as extra years' credit toward his guaranteed pension.
 But the company, one of the nation's largest food companies with more than 100 brands, struggled under his watch. ConAgra routinely missed earnings targets and underperformed its peers. Its share price fell 28 percent. The company cut more than 9,000 jobs. Accounting problems surfaced in every one of Mr. Rohde's eight years. 
 Even when ConAgra restated its financial results, which lowered earnings in 2003 and 2004, Mr. Rohde's $16.4 million in bonuses for those two years stayed the same.
 Mr. Rohde turned down repeated requests for an interview. Chris Kircher, a ConAgra spokesman, said that Mr. Rohde received no bonuses in 2001 and 2005, evidence that his compensation was based in part on performance. He added that Mr. Rohde's severance was negotiated 10 years ago, when he was first hired, not as he left. The whole package was ''negotiated under a different board, a different point in the company's history, and in a different environment,'' Mr. Kircher said.
 The disparity between Mr. Rohde's and Mr. Smith's pay packages may be striking, but it is not unusual. Instead, it is the norm. 
 Even here in the heartland, where corporate chieftains do not take home pay packages that are anywhere near those of Hollywood moguls or Wall Street bankers, the pay gap between the boss and the rank-and-file is wide. 
 New technology and low-cost labor in places like China and India have put downward pressure on the wages and benefits of the average American worker. Executive pay, meanwhile, continues to rise at an astonishing rate. 
 The average pay for a chief executive increased 27 percent last year, to $11.3 million, according to a survey of 200 large companies by Pearl Meyer & Partners, the compensation practice of Clark Consulting. The median chief executive's pay was somewhat lower, at $8.4 million, for an increase of 10.3 percent over 2004. By contrast, the average wage-earner took home $43,480 in 2004, according to Commerce Department data. And recent wage data from the Labor Department suggest that workers' weekly pay, up 2.9 percent in 2005, failed to keep pace with inflation of 3.3 percent.
 Many forces are pushing executive pay into the stratosphere. Huge gains from stock options during the 1990's bull market are one major reason. So is the recruitment of celebrity C.E.O.'s, which has bid up the compensation of all top executives. 
 Compensation consultants, who are hired to advise boards, are often motivated to produce big paydays for managers. After all, the boss can hand their company lucrative contracts down the road. 
 Compensation committees, meanwhile, are often reluctant to withhold a bonus or stock award for poor performance. Many big shareholders, such as mutual funds and pension plans, have chosen not to cast votes critical of management. The results have been a growing gap between chief executives and ordinary employees, and often between the boss and managers one layer below. 
 The average top executive's salary at a big company was more than 170 times the average worker's earnings in 2004, up from a multiple of 68 in 1940, according to a study last year by Carola Frydman, a doctoral candidate at Harvard, and Raven E. Saks, an economist at the Federal Reserve. 
 ''We need to bring some reality back,'' said John C. Bogle Sr., the founder and former chairman of the Vanguard Group, the mutual fund company, and an outspoken critic of executive compensation practices. ''That is something that in the long run is not good for society. We have the haves and the have-nots.''
 Supersized salaries, bonuses and benefits, long controversial, are now drawing scrutiny from the Securities and Exchange Commission and have become part of the national political debate. About 81 percent of Americans say they think that the chief executives of large companies are overpaid, a percentage that changes little with income level or political party affiliation, according to a Los Angeles Times/Bloomberg survey in February. Many shareholders, moreover, are just plain angry.
 ''It's not just ConAgra -- it is really in most corporations that executives are paid too much,'' said Don D. Hudgens, a small investor in Omaha who has submitted shareholder proposals to rein in executive pay at ConAgra and other companies. ''I am a conservative Republican. I believe in the free market. But sometimes the payment of the chief executive isn't involved in that free market.''
 The divide between executives and ordinary workers was not always so great. From the mid-1940's through the 1970's, the pay of both groups grew at about the same rate, 1.3 percent, according to the study by Ms. Frydman and Ms. Saks. They analyzed the compensation of top executives at 102 large companies from 1936 to 2003. 
 But starting in the 1980's, executive compensation began to accelerate. In 1980, the average chief executive made about $1.6 million in today's dollars. By 1990, the figure had risen to $2.7 million; by 2004, it was about $7.6 million, after peaking at almost twice that amount in 2000. In other words, executive pay rose an average of 6.8 percent a year.
 At the same time, the growth rate slowed for the average worker's pay. That figure rose to about $43,000 in 2004 from about $36,000 in 1980, an increase of 0.8 percent a year in inflation-adjusted terms. 
 CORPORATIONS, meanwhile, projected that their own earnings would grow by an average of 11.5 percent a year during that 24-year stretch, by Mr. Bogle's calculations. In reality, he said, they delivered growth of 6 percent a year, slightly less than the growth rate of the entire economy, as measured by gross domestic product. 
 Chief executives ''aren't creating any exceptional value, so you would think that the average compensation of the C.E.O. would grow at the rate of the average worker,'' Mr. Bogle said. ''When you look at it in that way, it is a real problem.''
 The problem was certainly real at ConAgra. Mr. Rohde's arrival there in 1996 coincided with three of the most powerful forces propelling executive pay and hourly workers' wages in opposite directions. Stock options were being used to reward managers richly, the food industry's rapid consolidation pushed down workers' pay and the introduction of new machinery improved productivity but cost many jobs. 
 Today, ConAgra, whose products include Chef Boyardee canned goods, Hunt's ketchup and Healthy Choice dinners, began in 1919 as a small food processor, grew rapidly under Charles M. Harper, a former Pillsbury executive who went by the name Mike. In the mid-1970's, he drew up an ambitious expansion strategy to establish ConAgra as a major player from ''dirt to dinner,'' as a corporate slogan later put it. ConAgra would snap up more than 280 businesses in the next two decades. From 1980 to 1993, investors saw total returns of over 1,000 percent, or 22 percent a year. 
 Wall Street fell in love with Con-Agra's growth story. And the pay of Mr. Harper, who consistently hit the board's performance targets, reflected the admiration. In 1976, his pay was $1.3 million in today's dollars. By the end of his tenure, in the early 1990's, it was about $6 million a year. 
 ''Under Mike Harper, they were a company that paid very little cash and a lot of long-term'' stock, said Frederic W. Cook, who was a compensation consultant to ConAgra's board until 2002. ''There were rules you could never sell the stock. They lived poor and they died rich.'' 
 By the mid-1990's, though, Con-Agra's growth strategy was running out of steam. Its market share and sales were flat. And its decentralized approach -- essentially letting its 90 subsidiaries operate like independent companies -- no longer worked in an industry dominated by Wal-Mart and other large supermarket buyers.
 Mr. Rohde -- who had been Con-Agra's chief outside lawyer, advising Mr. Harper on more than 200 deals -- was hired in 1996 to help the company reorganize. He became chief executive the next year. 
 ConAgra's stock price was near a record high, and Mr. Rohde was paid handsomely. His first year's total compensation was $7.9 million, including an initial $4.3 million restricted stock grant, vested over 10 years, and a $500,000 long-term performance payout.
 Mr. Rohde tried to centralize many of ConAgra's main operations and integrate dozens of its businesses. But analysts said he let the company's brands stagnate and struggled to execute his plans.
 From mid-1999 to mid-2001, Con-Agra struggled amid a sweeping overhaul. The company incurred $1.1 billion in restructuring charges. It terminated more than 8,450 employees and closed 31 plants. And analysts began complaining that ConAgra did not invest enough in its brands to keep profits up. 
 Mr. Rohde continued to be well-compensated. During that two-year period, he received cash and stock option grants of more than $8.7 million, even as ConAgra's board withheld his annual bonus and all long-term equity awards for 2001 because of weak results. 
 But what the board took away with one hand, it gave back with the other. In July 2001, it granted Mr. Rohde 300,000 stock options. The reason, according to proxy filings, was that an unnamed independent consultant's compensation report indicated that his equity-based pay was not competitive. ''There's nothing wrong at all conceptually with giving someone options after a bad year,'' said Mr. Cook, who was the unnamed consultant. ''An option is an incentive for the future. It is not a reward for the past.'' 
 Still, Mr. Cook said he recognized that people say ''they rewarded him for failure.''
 ''Financially,'' he added, ''it's hard to argue with that.''
 TWO months later, ConAgra's compensation committee piled on 750,000 more stock options. Based on a review of option grants, a proxy filing said, Mr. Rohde's option position had been ''below competitive levels for a number of years.'' And the board wanted to recognize ''the results achieved in repositioning the company for the future.'' 
 Then Mr. Rohde hit the jackpot in 2003 and 2004, with the board awarding him $16.4 million in bonus money and the part of his long-term incentive plan he had earned. The payments were based largely on earnings targets. But in March 2005, ConAgra announced that it would have to restate earnings for 2003 and 2004, reducing them by a total of up to $200 million for the two years after poor internal controls led to income tax errors. 
 ''That works out to nearly 20 cents per share annually, or between 10 percent and 15 percent of earnings,'' John M. McMillin, an analyst at Prudential Equity Group, wrote at the time. ConAgra ''is in the process of restating earnings for both years and we ask, why not restate the bonus for the C.E.O.?''
 Mr. Kircher, the ConAgra spokesman, said the restatement did not have a material impact on the way Mr. Rohde's bonuses were calculated. 
 With the accounting issues clouding the company's future and more layoffs and financial challenges ahead, Mr. Rohde announced last May that he planned to step down. In 2005, the board gave him only his $1.2 million salary. 
 But through it all, Mr. Rohde managed to take home more than $45 million in pay, including salary, bonuses and restricted stock grants. He did not sell any of his stock while chief executive but stands to benefit if he sells his shares now. 
 Carl E. Reichardt, the former head of Wells Fargo, led the compensation committee that approved Mr. Rohde's pay every year of his tenure, and continues in that role today. Mr. Reichardt also declined to comment.
 One former member of the compensation committee found it difficult to explain the pay-for-performance link. Looking back, said Clayton K. Yeutter, a former United States trade representative who served on the compensation committee from 1997 to 2001, ''I can understand what you are getting to, because the compensation became pretty generous, because the stock did not perform very well.'' He said he could not recall any meeting details. 
 MR. SMITH, the meat grinder, can only dream about such generosity. His wages have grown at a pace of 2.7 percent a year for the last 28 years. But, adjusted for inflation, his $13.25 an hour salary today is roughly two-thirds his $6.40-an-hour starting wage. 
 Mr. Rohde's salary alone rose at 8 percent a year, and he collected more than $22 million in cash compensation during almost nine years at the company. Since stepping down in September, he started collecting $2.4 million in severance pay, twice his most recent salary, as well as full health benefits, which he will have through 2009. ConAgra shareholders are footing the bill for a secretary and an office near his home. And that $984,000 annual pension? It reflects 20 years of service, even though he was a ConAgra executive for not quite nine. In July, Mr. Rohde told The Omaha World-Herald that he hoped to spend part of his retirement flying his helicopter between his home and his family's Minnesota getaway home.
 Mr. Smith, on the other hand, envisions spending his golden years hunting mallards and casting for catfish at a nearby riverfront cabin. He will have to make do on the $80,000 in his 401(k) plan, as well as his Social Security checks and a pension of $106 a month that was frozen almost a decade ago. But to hear Mr. Smith tell it, he is not angry at Mr. Rohde or, more broadly, at the widening gap between executive and worker pay. Instead, his feelings are somewhere between disappointment and disbelief.
 ''If the stock keeps going up, maybe they deserve it. If the stock is going down to the bottom, they should get nothing,'' Mr. Smith said. ''My opinion.''
 Last May, ConAgra directors began looking for a new chief executive. In a few months, they identified their man: Gary M. Rodkin, a 53-year-old PepsiCo executive with 25 years of food-industry experience, including more than a decade overseeing PepsiCo's core brands. But he did not come cheap.
 Even before his first day of work, Mr. Rodkin was given a $1 million salary and a guaranteed $2 million bonus for this year, according to his employment contract. He was granted 1.48 million stock options, with a projected value of $5.8 million today, exercisable over the next three years. ''We wanted to get him aligned with the interests of shareholders of the company,'' Steven F. Goldstone, ConAgra's chairman and the former chief executive of RJR Nabisco, told Bloomberg News at the time. ''The idea is to increase shareholder value. If he increases shareholder value, he makes money, too.'' 
 If Mr. Rodkin does not increase shareholder returns, his stock options will decline in value, as will the $1.6 million in ConAgra stock he recently bought with his own cash. 
 Still, ConAgra has already agreed to take care of Mr. Rodkin when he leaves. Based on his employment agreement, he will walk away with at least $6 million in severance, a prorated bonus and a $129,000 pension supercharged with three years of credit for each year he worked. 
 And though he took the job at ConAgra, PepsiCo is still honoring a $4.5 million, two-year consulting contract it gave him when he left. ''If the new guy is the right guy, he is worth his weight in gold,'' said Brian Foley, an independent compensation consultant in White Plains, who reviewed Mr. Rohde's and Mr. Rodkin's employment agreements and other compensation documents. ''If he is the wrong guy, you have a severance package that is substantially more expensive.''
 ConAgra's board, in the meantime, agreed to ease Mr. Rodkin's transition by flying him each week, for up to two years, from his home in White Plains to its Omaha headquarters.
 Mr. Smith commutes to work in his green 1998 Chevy pickup truck.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Bruce C. Rohde, above, earned more than $45 million over eight years as head of ConAgra. James P. Smith, left, a meat grinder, earns less today, in real wages, than he did 29 years ago. (Photo by Dave Weaver/Associated Press)
(Photo by Dave Weaver for The New York Times)(pg. 5)
(pg. 1)Chart: ''The Wide Divide''In the early 1980's, executive compensation - including salaries, bonuses and option grants - began to rise faster than the earnings of most workers. Compensation for the most highly paid executives has grown the fastest
it peaked in 2000, at the height of the stock market bubble.How much executives madeIn 1940, half of executives earned more than 56 times the average worker's pay.Graph tracks executive compensation for top 10% of executives*, top 25%, bottom 25% and bottom 10% since 1940.In 2004, half of executives earned more than 104 times the average worker's pay.In 2004, the top 10 percent of executives earned at least 350 times the average worker's pay, up from 122 times in 1990 and 74 times in 1950.700 times the pay of the average worker* Executives are defined as the three highest-paid officers at companies that were among the 50 largest in 1940, 1960, or 1990.(Source by Carola Frydman, Harvard, and Raven E. Saks, Federal Reserve)(pg. 1)Chart: ''It Pays to Be the Boss''Bruce C. Rohde made $45 million during his tenure as chairman and chief executive of ConAgra Foods as the company struggled. Gary M. Rodkin, Mr. Rohde's successor, has already been guaranteed $3 million in his first year. In contrast, James Smith, known as Skinny, a meat grinder who has worked at a ConAgra plant for almost 30 years, has hourly pay that earns him less than $30,000 a year, about two-thirds of what he made when he was hired, after adjusting for inflation.Bruce C. Rohde, 57Former chairman, C.E.O., ConAgraWORK HISTORY: McGrath North Mullin & Kratz, president, 1984-96
ConAgra, chief executive, 1997-2005ANNUAL PAY: $1.0 mil.ANNUAL BONUS: $1.5 mil.LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN/RESTRICTED STOCK: $2.4 mil.STOCK OPTIONS: $1.4 mil.ANNUAL PENSION PAYMENT: $1.0 mil.SEVERANCE: $2.4 mil. over four yearsGary M. Rodkin, 53Chairman, C.E.O., ConAgraWORK HISTORY: Tropicana Products, president, 1995-8
PepsiCo, division chief executive, 1998-2005ANNUAL PAY: $1.0 mil.ANNUAL BONUS: $2.0 mil.LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN/RESTRICTED STOCK: NoneSTOCK OPTIONS: $5.8 mil.ANNUAL PENSION PAYMENT: $129,000SEVERANCE: $6.0 mil. over two yearsJames Smith, 49Meat grinder, ConAgraWORK HISTORY: ConAgra and predecessor companies, meat grinder, 1977-2006ANNUAL PAY: $28,000 -- Based on hourly pay of $13.25, excluding overtimeANNUAL BONUS: None -- Bonuses were eliminated years agoLONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN/RESTRICTED STOCK: Choice of ConAgra apparel and merchandise based on years of serviceSTOCK OPTIONS: NoneANNUAL PENSION PAYMENT: $1,272 -- Also has $80,000 in a 401(k) planSEVERANCE: NoneMr. Rohde's figures are annual averages over his career as president and chief executive through May 2005. He resigned in Sept. 2005 but was eligible for a portion of his 2006 bonus. Mr. Rohde's retirement benefits do not include deferred compensation or the value of his 401(k). His pension is calculated based on 20 years of service
he was at the company for nearly nine years.Mr. Rodkin's annual compensation reflects pay for 2006 and a guaranteed bonus. His pension projections are based on three years of service
he has been at ConAgra a year. Mr. Rodkin's pay does not include a $4.5 million consulting contract from PepsiCo, his former employer, that runs until June 2007.Mr. Rohde's and Mr. Rodkin's severance plans include medical insurance. Mr. Rohde also gets an office and an assistant.Equity figures reflect estimated values as of award dates. The price of Mr. Rodkin's options, which he has not yet received, are assumed to be $21.75 a share.(Sources by Brian Foley & Company
ConAgra SEC filings
 James Smith)(pg. 5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); FOOD MFG (77%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); PERSONAL FINANCE (68%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (57%); COST OF LIVING (54%); ACCOUNTING (50%) Executives and Management; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Executives and Management; Executives and Management

COMPANY: CONAGRA FOODS INC (76%)

ORGANIZATION: Pearl Meyer & Partners; Labor Department (US); Conagra Foods Inc

TICKER: CAG (NYSE) (76%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (76%); NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (76%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (76%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (76%); SIC2092 PREPARED FRESH OR FROZEN FISH & SEAFOODS (76%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (76%)

PERSON: GARY M RODKIN (79%) Bruce Rohde; James (ConAgra Employee) Smith; Eric Dash

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (88%) NEBRASKA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%); CHINA (79%) China; India

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



228 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: Yields Are Up, but Risks Remain on Bonds

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
THE bond market ''conundrum'' famously cited by Alan Greenspan -- long-term interest rates falling with short-term rates on the rise -- no longer holds. But bond investing hasn't become much easier. 
 The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note has been gradually climbing toward 5 percent. Fourteen months ago, when Mr. Greenspan, then the Federal Reserve chairman, spoke about the situation, this benchmark rate was scarcely above 4 percent.
Now, both short and long-term rates offer inflation-beating yields -- rather than a choice between laughably low returns and substantial risk. Many bond investors may feel that it's become somewhat less agonizing these days to decide what to do with their money.
 Nonetheless, professional opinion remains mostly cautious about bonds of long maturity. The market watchers range from those who see some opportunity for capital gains to those who find little reason to venture from the haven of money market funds. 
 Among the relative optimists is Paul A. McCulley, managing director and portfolio manager at Pimco, the bond house in Newport Beach, Calif. ''We're in the final throes of the bear market'' for bonds, he said. ''For investors setting up for a one- to two-year horizon, now is an excellent time to be scaling into fixed income.'' In other words, buy some bonds gradually. 
 But Robert F. Auwaerter, head of fixed-income portfolio management at the Vanguard Group in Malvern, Pa., voiced more restraint. ''The economy continues to be quite strong,'' Mr. Auwaerter said, calling a Fed move to raise the overnight lending rate to 5 percent from the current 4.75 percent a ''slam dunk'' in the next few months. He said he would not be surprised to see it reach 5.25 or even 5.5 percent. 
 That could cause the yield curve -- of returns arrayed across the spectrum of maturities, from days to decades -- to invert again, with rates higher for short-term issues than for long-term ones. Normally, the longer until maturity, the greater the yield, because of the greater risk.
 Inversions, such as the mild one during the winter, tend to herald recessions, which are usually good for bonds. This time, however, the relatively low level of long-term rates may mainly reflect huge bond purchases by foreign buyers, particularly China and oil exporters, using dollars accumulated in trade with the United States.
 Bond investors, of course, face a perpetual conundrum: rising rates mean that the value of existing holdings declines -- whether owned directly or through a mutual fund -- but they also make returns on reinvested interest and fresh money more attractive.
 Is there a way to figure this trade-off? Specialists point to what is called duration, a refined measure of bond maturity that tells how sensitive an individual bond or entire portfolio is to a given change in interest rates. 
 ''If you have five years of duration, that means that if interest rates go up or down one percentage point, then the price of your bond goes up or down five percentage points,'' Mr. McCulley said. If such a bond yields close to 5 percent, he said, over the course of one year, even if rates rose by one percentage point, ''you more or less break even.''
 Duration failed those who relied on it during the rising rate environment of the last year or so, as short-term investments outperformed. ''It has not been a good indicator'' this time, said Scott Berry, a mutual fund analyst at Morningstar Inc.
 SO what's a fixed-income investor to do? Bearing in mind what the finance textbooks call the ''asymmetrical'' risk inherent in bonds as a class -- meaning that if you compromise on quality, you can lose more than you can gain -- it may make sense to be conservative. 
 ''A bond isn't going to double in price,'' said Mr. Auwaerter of Vanguard. ''If everything goes right, it's going to pay you 100 cents on the dollar at maturity plus all your coupons in between. But if a bond gets in trouble and defaults, you may be getting 30, 40 or 50 cents on the dollar.''
 Moreover, he added, today's flattish yield curve means ''an environment where you're not getting paid a lot of spread to take on credit risk.''
 The expert consensus these days, therefore, is to stick to high-quality borrowers. Don't commit to long maturities; avoid segments of the market that have had outsize price run-ups, such as emerging markets; and pay close attention to expenses, many bond professionals say.
 ''High-quality fixed-income is in the value zone and should be bought'' with average durations of four to five years, Mr. McCulley said, pointing to Treasury bonds and those of the mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as especially attractive.
 Mr. Berry of Morningstar, who finds short-term bonds and bond funds most appealing now, said only a few basis points of yield now separated Fidelity's UltraShort Bond and Intermediate Bond funds. ''You're getting basically the same yield with much less risk'' for the ultrashort bonds, he said. The tricky part is deciding when it's time to switch. 
 Specialists say municipal bonds, which foreigners are much less likely to buy, represent good value these days. And funds investing in low-quality issues are springing up to serve aggressive investors; last year, such funds averaged a total return of 6 percent, making them the best tax-exempt category by far. 
 ''It certainly makes sense to look at municipals right now,'' Mr. Berry said.
 Funds investing in bank loans, whose rates are reset upward every 90 days to limit possible loss of principal, are also attracting investors. 
 Mr. Berry cautions against bonds in emerging markets, which produced double-digit returns last year. 
 Experts generally agree that investors should be wary of corporate bonds, which now tend to be high priced, because of the default risk at a time of increasing monetary restraint. The new Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, is expected to be no more likely than Mr. Greenspan to let inflation flare up.
 IT pays to shop for low-cost bond funds, especially in a climate of modest interest rates, but specialists also advise investors against buying individual bonds, rather than funds, unless they are investing for a specific purpose and can hold the bonds to maturity. ''Individual investors think that by buying the bond rather than the bond fund that somehow they're immune to the change in prices as rates go up,'' Mr. Auwaerter said. ''What they don't realize is when they go and sell the bond that they're going to take a hit. There's very limited circumstances where it makes sense to buy bonds directly.''
 Funds provide instant diversification and are can negotiate better prices in markets characterized by wide spreads between buying and selling prices, poor liquidity and, in the case of municipals, a huge number of issues. One drawback, other than the fact that they never mature, is they do not provide the means to customize one's taxes.
 Mr. McCulley of Pimco, though more optimistic than most about the prospects for bonds, is nonetheless somewhat nervous about the outlook. 
 ''There seems to be a little complacency right now, as reflected in low levels of volatility and tight risk premiums,'' he said. ''I don't see anything particularly daunting on the horizon, but there's very little cushion in asset prices now for shocks. This calls for a degree of circumspection.''
 This, of course, could prompt an investor to remain in money market funds, where returns are already well north of 4 percent and generally respond promptly to rate increases by the Fed. But such safety-at-all-costs investors risk missing profits from the next easing cycle, Mr. McCulley said. ''Money market funds,'' he said, ''always look best when they should be sold.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Rising Treasury Yield''The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to just under 5 percent this March from just over 4 percent in February 2005.Graph tracks yield on the 10-year Treasury note since 2005.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); YIELD CURVE (78%); RECESSION (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); EXPORT TRADE (63%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (60%) 

COMPANY: VANGUARD GROUP INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (88%) Robert D Jr Hershey

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



229 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 114 words

HEADLINE: Corzine's Budget And the Neediest

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 While ''Robin Hood Joins the Sheriff's Department'' (March 26) points out that Gov. Jon S. Corzine has proposed raising the sales tax among other measures to get our state economy back on track, I would hardly categorize him as against the poor. 
In the proposed budget, one that saw cutbacks in many areas, Mr. Corzine increased funding for those who need it the most -- the homeless, the mentally ill -- and eliminated the income tax for those in households making less then $25,000 a year. These proposals should serve as a model for what a progressive government can do for the neediest.

Steven M. Clayton
Ocean

The writer is a member, Monmouth County Democratic Committee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); SALES TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (88%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (88%); SHERIFFS (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (87%); WRITERS (73%) Taxation; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Sales Tax

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (92%) Jon S (Gov) Corzine; Steven M Clayton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



230 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Russia Is Needed, But It's Not There

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
PROBABLY not since World War II had there been such a high-water mark in Russian cooperation with America. Within weeks of Sept. 11, 2001, President Vladimir V. Putin offered sweeping support for American operations in Afghanistan, including help in securing bases in Central Asian countries.
 The Bush administration, in turn, built high hopes for more Russian cooperation -- on strengthening ties with countries in Moscow's old sphere of influence, thwarting the nuclear ambitions of Iran and North Korea, on guaranteeing energy supplies and much more.
Today -- just when Russian cooperation has become vital on Iran -- Mr. Putin's post-9/11 statements seem like a curio from another time. And so do America's hopes. 
 While Russia has re-established the confidence to go its own way, both Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Vice President Dick Cheney are said to be leading a major reassessment of what to do in response. In meetings with outside experts, they have begun asking how much the administration can expect of the Kremlin, and what it can do to change Russian behavior. 
 The answer to both questions appears to be: Not much. A more assertive Russia is back. 
 The most recent complaints about Russia are that it blocked a strong United Nations Security Council move against Iran, and has reached out to Hamas while most of the West is turning its back. 
 In addition, the days of the United States' being welcome to set up shop in the old Soviet empire are gone; Mr. Putin's government is working with Central Asian countries to push American forces out. It has placed new curbs on Western investment in energy. Worse, it has used its spigot on piped natural gas as a club to reward allies (like Belarus) and punish less obedient countries (like Ukraine). 
 President Bush's top aides have come to dread what Mr. Putin might do when he plays host to the summit of leading industrial nations in St. Petersburg in July. He could turn it into a grand celebration of Russia's new determination to pursue its own interests, whether his guests like it or not. He has already vented frustration over what he sees as American-led efforts to deny Russia its security interests, and to block its accession to the World Trade Organization. 
 ''They know it's not the relationship with Russia that they wanted,'' said Stephen Sestanovich, a top Russia policy maker in the Clinton administration and now a fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations who has attended meetings with Ms. Rice and Mr. Cheney. He and other participants report that the administration is unsure how to proceed.
 ''While there might be some personal remnants of a good a personal relationship between Putin and Bush, they don't think that's the key,'' Mr. Sestanovich said. ''They're hoping for residual cooperation on Iran, counterterrorism and maybe energy. Beyond that, they don't see very much.''
 Perhaps the most emotional breach has been over Mr. Putin's crackdown on dissent, the jailing of a major industrialist and restrictions on political parties and the media. The United States sees a slide into authoritarianism; Mr. Putin explains those steps as correctives from a time of plunder and corruption under his predecessor, Boris N. Yeltsin. 
 Ms. Rice and Mr. Bush have emphasized that they are not giving up on Russia. They will not, as some harsh critics have suggested, try to eject it from the Group of Eight or disinvite it from cooperating with NATO. 
 But many administration officials say that on issues like the Middle East, they no longer expect an active partnership. The most they hope for is to persuade Russia not to get in the way of American goals. 
 Last month, a report by the Council on Foreign Relations rejected appeals to kick Russia out of the Group of Eight, but endorsed efforts to stand up to Russia on energy, democracy and its support of autocratic regimes in its neighborhood. 
 Within the administration, some thought is being given to dampening the St. Petersburg summit by holding a separate meeting of the seven nations that made up the Group of Seven before Russia joined in the 1990's. Mr. Bush may meet with dissidents or visit a democracy on Russia's periphery -- as he did before and after visiting Moscow last year by making trips to Latvia and Georgia that infuriated the Russians.
 BUT Americans may have to accept that Russia's attitude has firm roots in a sense of identity, interests and destiny that is resurgent after years of humiliation. 
 In the 1990's, Russia did not stand up to the United States, largely because it could not. It had shrunk physically and economically after the cold war. But since 1999 its economy has grown by two-thirds, helped by a 50 percent rise in oil production and a global ballooning of oil prices. 
 Along with the new economic clout has come a strong sense that Russia no longer must sit quietly and accept Western actions like the 1998 NATO war in Kosovo, which Mr. Yeltsin objected to but could not stop.
 Even after the 9/11 attacks, Mr. Putin found Russia in no position to resist Mr. Bush's determination to rewrite the rules on missile defenses. But by the time the Iraq war started in 2003, he could -- and did -- object. Russia pointedly sat on the sidelines, alongside France and Germany. 
 ''Russia is emerging from a 20-year cycle of decay, and it is rebuilding a strong central state in a way that future historians will probably decide was inevitable,'' said Thane Gustafson, a professor of politics at Georgetown University. Its decisions to reassert state control over energy and use its riches to pursue traditional security interests were also probably inevitable, he said. ''Energy,'' he added, ''is all the Russians have got.'' 
 But energy can be a double-edge sword. Many experts say internal and energy trends will do more to determine Russian behavior than pressure from the West. Cambridge Energy Research Associates reported last month that the easy phase of modernizing Russia's oil industry is over, and that further production increases now depend on Russia's willingness to loosen its bureaucratic grip on that sector and accept Western investment.
 Nikolas K. Gvosdev, editor of The National Interest and a senior fellow at the Nixon Center, says the fact that both presidents are nearing the ends of their terms could be affecting the relationship's tone, but something deeper is also happening. 
 ''The administration's disappointment with Russia is mirrored by a growing feeling in Russia that the United States is hell bent on preventing Russia from exercising influence in the world,'' he said. ''In America, we just never thought Russia would recover and begin to throw its weight around.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: TOGETHER -- But nobody's smiling. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); TERRORISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (70%); HAMAS (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%) United States International Relations; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); HAMAS (54%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (89%); DICK CHENEY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Steven R Weisman; Vladimir V (Pres) Putin; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); CENTRAL ASIA (93%); ASIA (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); BELARUS (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); UKRAINE (58%) Russia; Iran

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



231 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1827 words

HEADLINE: City Rethinks Its Remaking Of the Schools

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
The New York City schools chancellor, Joel I. Klein, is once again rethinking the nation's largest school system.
 He has hired Chris Cerf, former president of Edison Schools, the commercial manager of public schools in 25 states. He has retained Alvarez & Marsal, a consulting firm that revamped the school system in St. Louis and is rebuilding the system in New Orleans. And he has enlisted Sir Michael Barber, a former adviser to Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain who is now at McKinsey & Company in London.
These consultants, often in pinstripe suits and ensconced in a conference room on the third-floor mezzanine of the headquarters of the Education Department in Lower Manhattan, are working with a small army of city education officials, all led by Mr. Klein's chief of staff, Kristen Kane. The effort is being paid for with $5 million in private donations. 
 Together, the consultants and officials are re-examining virtually every aspect of the system, not quite three years after Chancellor Klein and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg charted perhaps its most exhaustive overhaul and made it a laboratory for educational experimentation, closely watched across the country. 
 They are evaluating everything from how textbooks and paper are bought, to how teacher training programs are chosen, to how students, teachers, principals and schools are judged. They are running focus groups of dozens of principals, and they are studying districts in England, Canada and California. 
 A top goal is to find ways to relax much of the very centralization put in place by the Bloomberg administration and give principals a far freer hand, provided schools can meet goals for attendance, test scores, promotion rates and other criteria. 
 An ideal system, they suggest, would put schools near the top of the organizational chart and potentially eliminate or change dozens of administrative jobs. Hypothetically, principals, now supervised by a local superintendent, might choose either to keep that overseer or to use the money to hire a different achievement adviser. Support services, like counseling programs, could be outsourced.
 ''This is entire system reform,'' Mr. Cerf said over a cheeseburger lunch at a downtown bistro. ''This is the most important and urgent thing going on in American public education today. If it can be done well and right here, it will be a national pace car for change.'' 
 Chancellor Klein, in an interview last week, said: ''I see this as truly an evolutionary restructuring.''
 Even some principals who are avid supporters of Mr. Klein wonder, however, if the effort is futile. State and federal mandates limit the authority of principals and are largely outside the chancellor's control. There are also the constraints of union contracts, which regulate so much of the workings of schools, like teacher schedules.
 ''How much can the system support increased autonomy and authority of school leaders without making the commensurate changes with respect to the external demands,'' asked Anthony Lombardi, the principal of P.S. 49 in Middle Village, Queens. ''Ideally there should be a balance of accountability, autonomy and contractual flexibility.''
 The search for a more flexible structure comes four years after Mr. Bloomberg won direct control of the schools. He reorganized the 32 community districts into 10 instructional regions under tight central direction. The system has imposed new promotion rules and introduced targeted help for struggling students; achieved sharp gains on state reading and math tests in most grades; and opened dozens of small high schools.
 William G. Ouchi, a business professor at U.C.L.A. and the author of ''Making Schools Work,'' praised the city's effort and said he believed it would succeed. But Professor Ouchi, who advised Mr. Klein during the first restructuring, also said the new effort was an acknowledgment of failures in the mayor's first term. 
 ''I think it was a normal human error,'' said Professor Ouchi, who calls the current structure too rigid. ''Those of us who study large organizations for a living know the first reaction of a new C.E.O. is to grab the reins of power and control everything, because they don't want anything to go awry.'' 
 Mr. Klein and his aides say a tighter fist was needed at first to stabilize the sprawling and often dysfunctional system. The decentralization they envision now, they say, entails the daily operations of schools, rather than the system's management.
 ''It isn't that the strategic direction is going in a totally new way, or that we have a clean slate and are starting from scratch here,'' Ms. Kane said.
 ''We feel have made a significant amount of progress over the last couple of years, but we have got to continue to change. We are not at all satisfied with all of the student achievement results, putting aside whatever improvements have happened.'' 
 She and other officials cautioned that the process was in its earliest stages and the final decisions, to be made by Mr. Klein and approved by the mayor, are still a long way off. 
 In his quest, Mr. Klein has turned to a team of outside experts, including Mr. Cerf, a longtime friend.
 Mr. Cerf, 51, like Mr. Klein, 59, is a former clerk at the United States Supreme Court and worked in the Clinton administration. As president of Edison, the nation's largest private operator of public schools, Mr. Cerf helped the company's founder, H. Christopher Whittle, navigate many troubles, including an outcry over its handling of schools in Philadelphia.
 Mr. Cerf, an expert on tracking school performance, was also an informal adviser to the chancellor in the mayor's first term and now works for the Public-Private Strategy Group, a consulting firm based in Montclair, N.J.
 The firm of Alvarez & Marsal is widely regarded as having expertise on public school budgets. Sajan P. George, 36, a specialist in municipal finance who is leading the firm's work in New York, helped Orange County, Calif., out of bankruptcy in the 1990's and once assisted the Australian government with a review of the horse- and greyhound-racing industries.
 And then there is Sir Michael, who served as Prime Minister Blair's top aide for putting into effect education, health, criminal justice and transportation initiatives. He is regarded as a leading thinker on holding educators and public officials accountable for student achievement. 
 Sir Michael, as a senior education official before joining Mr. Blair's cabinet office, served on a committee nicknamed the ''hit squad'' because it shut schools that were failing to meet national standards. Britain, which has a strict national curriculum and exams, has developed a system of inspecting schools every three years.
 ''As it happens, the English education reform has been through a lot of the stages they are now going through,'' Sir Michael said in an interview..
 At Mr. Klein's direction, the consultants' most immediate mission is to create a framework for expanding the ''autonomy zone,'' a pilot group of 42 schools whose principals were largely cut free of administration this year after agreeing to meet performance targets. Mr. Klein announced in January that 150 more schools would enter the zone this fall. 
 The consultants are also working to fulfill the chancellor's pledge to redirect $200 million from administrative budgets to schools. 
 But to hold principals accountable, the department must have a way to judge performance. So the officials and consultants, led by James Liebman, a former law professor at Columbia, are looking to develop more sophisticated measures of performance and to vastly increase the amount of data availableto administrators and teachers.
 Officials are wrestling with a host of complex questions. If a school fails to meet its goals, what are the consequences? Who metes them out? And in granting autonomy, how can the school system avoid what some experts view as a flaw in charter schools -- privately run but publicly financed -- which is that if they fail, typically the only remedy is to close them? 
 To give principals more control over school finances, the consultants from Alvarez & Marsal are mapping how every dollar flows through the system's $15 billion budget and how the flow might be altered.
 For instance, what prices should be set if services like teacher training, now provided by the administration, were essentially for sale, to be purchased only by schools that want or need them? How can spending authority be given to principals without losing economies of scale? How can controls be established to prevent patronage and corruption?
 Mr. Cerf is trying to reconceive how principals and schools interact with the larger system by exploring a more rudimentary question: what services do schools need or want from the administration? 
 Skeptics say that the administration is wasting time and money on the consultants and that the mayor, a businessman, and the chancellor, a lawyer, remain fixated on systems and structure, rather than the interactions inside classrooms.
 ''Isn't it insane to play 52-pickup another time when structure is far less important, far less consequential, than the daily dealings between teachers and students?'' asked Diane Ravitch, the education historian and frequent critic of the administration. 
 Noting that the city's four-year high school graduation rate of about 53 percent had barely budged during Mr. Bloomberg's tenure, Ms. Ravitch added: ''It is hard to see why this number will increase as the result of yet another massive upheaval in the structure of governance.''
 And Randi Weingarten, the president of the city teachers' union, said: ''Joel and all his management guru types never talk to anyone who actually does the work -- that's what so mind-boggling. Our mission isn't constantly trying to reinvent ourselves into an entrepreneurial model that will get golden globes at the Harvard Business School. How do we help all 1.1 million kids get a decent high school education?''
 Indeed, the entire reorganization is geared toward empowering principals at a time when the administration is locked in a bitter contract dispute with principals and their union. Last week, about 2,000 school supervisors rallied outside City Hall to demand a new contract. 
 But Mr. Klein and his aides say they expect to produce a school system unlike anything the city has seen, with schools the primary drivers of decisions, and administration acting in service to them.
 Chancellor Klein often offers an example from Edmonton, Alberta. Principals who once had to wait endlessly for the central office to send painters to spruce up a building were instead given the money to get the job done themselves. 
 ''We are trying to devolve both dollars and power to the schools,'' Mr. Klein said. ''As much as we can in the next couple of years, I'd like to see the dollars flow first to the school and then to the people out of the school.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein and his chief of staff, Kristen Kane. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. 38)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); TEXTBOOKS (73%); OUTSOURCING (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); FOCUS GROUPS (65%); LABOR UNIONS (61%) Education and Schools; Organized Labor; Principals (School); Teachers and School Employees; Education and Schools

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%); TONY BLAIR (55%) David M Herszenhorn; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Joel I (Chancellor) Klein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); CANADA (79%); ENGLAND (73%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



232 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: Party Animals

BYLINE: By David P. Rebovich. 
David P. Rebovich is the managing director of the Rider University Institute for New Jersey Politics.

DATELINE: Lawrenceville 

 BODY:
NEW JERSEY has long been ripe for reform. The state certainly has big problems. For too long lawmakers have balanced the state budget by refinancing debt, using fund transfers and borrowing money against future revenues. In the meantime, property taxes have increased by more than 20 percent since 2002, and residents have endured countless tales of patronage, influence peddling and political corruption.
 So it was no surprise last year when the candidates for governor, Jon Corzine and Douglas Forrester, and several General Assembly candidates from both parties promised budget, ethics and property tax reform. But as Governor Corzine is learning, there is no guarantee that legislators in his own party will simply defer to him, especially since his agenda entails unpopular tax hikes and program cuts. 
 Legislators typically win re-election because they bring home the bacon to their districts -- more money for schools, towns, parks and economic development -- and not because they support policies that presumably benefit the entire state. Reforms that threaten the ability of legislators to help their constituents are often met with resistance. Thus, Governor Corzine's ambitious plans to restore fiscal and ethical integrity to state government may stall unless he convinces legislators in his own party that reforms are needed for his and their political survival.
 The governor's challenge is not unusual. In the 1980's, Gov. Thomas Kean, a Republican, tried to root out wasteful spending but found only a modest $102 million in politically acceptable cuts. His spending increases on public schools, higher education, roads and urban redevelopment are what made him popular, so when the state's financial situation improved, he kept spending. 
 His successor, Gov. James Florio, a Democrat, faced a deficit and enacted huge tax increases that enabled him to provide more property tax relief, education aid and social services. Citizens thanked him by putting Republican majorities in the Legislature and denying him a second term. 
 In 1994, Gov. Christie Whitman cut Mr. Florio's taxes but was able to keep state spending and aid at high levels by taking advantage of economic growth and by refinancing state debt and borrowing from the pension fund. When James McGreevey came into office in 2002, he announced to a surprised citizenry that budget austerity was needed. While he froze state aid to schools and municipalities, pushing up property taxes, he avoided big spending cuts or tax increases that were desperately needed. 
 When Governor McGreevey resigned, his successor, Richard Codey, admitted that he could not provide more property tax relief because the state had no money. As a lame duck governor, he couldn't convince the Legislature, especially members of the Assembly who were up for re-election last year, to accept more belt-tightening, much less higher taxes.
 Now Governor Corzine is saying that New Jersey is broke. He has recommended several tax increases, including a one point raise in the sales tax. He has also had to freeze aid to most municipalities and school districts and, contrary to a major campaign promise, increase property tax rebate checks only slightly. To demonstrate his commitment to reform, he promised to cut patronage jobs and low priority programs and to end dual office-holding, pension padding and the practice of ''pay to play'' in local politics. 
 While traveling around the state to talk about these changes, the governor has discovered that citizens are skeptical. Like his predecessors he is learning that it is difficult to convince New Jerseyans to think about what's good for the entire state and its future. As a newcomer to Trenton, Mr. Corzine has also learned that it is just as hard to get state legislators to buy into a reform agenda. 
 Republicans have taken to calling him ''another Florio,'' an allusion to Mr. Florio's insistence that raising income and sales taxes would solve the state's revenue problems. That's predictable political rhetoric, but it makes Democratic legislators uneasy because Mr. Florio's policies cost his party control of state government. 
 Many Democrats have said that they are anticipating higher revenues this spring that may eliminate the need for the sales tax increase, program cuts and frozen levels of state aid. But Governor Corzine insists that the state's long-term financial well-being depends on bold, if painful, decisions now. He says that if his fellow Democrats want to stay in power, they must demonstrate that they can deal competently with the state's problems. 
 At this point, it's not clear that Democratic legislators will wholeheartedly support the governor's reform agenda, especially with elections scheduled for November 2007. Will New Jersey voters come to understand and appreciate the reforms the governor is advocating? Or will they rebel against tax hikes and spending cuts and throw the incumbent Democrats out of office? 
 Democratic legislators will take their time deciding what to do about the governor's agenda. But no matter how tough their choices, they do have two important factors working in their favor: New Jersey's legislative districts are drawn to be safe for incumbents, and the Republicans who are complaining don't seem to have a plausible alternative. Governor Corzine should make sure that his fellow Democrats realize this so that they'll be brave enough to take a real stab at solving New Jersey's problems.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ETHICS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); SALES TAX (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); POLITICS (76%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (76%); TAX REFORM (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); CORRUPTION (71%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Taxation; Sales Tax; Ethics; Politics and Government

PERSON: JON CORZINE (90%) David Rebovich; Jon S (Gov) Corzine

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



233 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey's Brain Drain

 BODY:
With so much focus on Gov. Jon Corzine's bad-news budget and the state's perilous public finances, it is easy to forget that the private sector is not ordering much in the way of wine and roses these days, either. 
 A recent survey by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation found that the state's economy remains in a rut, with job growth checking in at a measly 1 percent or so during the last quarter of 2005. Last week's announcement that Lucent Technologies, the maker of telecommunications equipment, will merge with Paris-based Alcatel will do nothing to rouse the state from its economic stupor.
Lucent, based in the Union County community of Murray Hill, currently employs about 6,000 workers in New Jersey and about 30,000 worldwide. Alcatel has 58,000 workers around the world. The merged company, to be based in Paris, expects to shed nearly 9,000 jobs over the next two years.
 Nobody knows how many New Jerseyans will lose their jobs at Lucent, but the process will seem painfully familiar. Since spinning off from AT&T in 1996, Lucent has eliminated thousands of local jobs. Corporate prosperity has not followed the cost-cutting: the company's stock price has fallen from $84 in 1999 to just over $3 today.
 A decade ago, New Jersey was quite literally the center of the nation's telecommunications industry. The state's largest private-sector employer was AT&T. But times changed quickly and drastically, and AT&T sold off its sprawling Basking Ridge campus in 2002. Its iconic bee's nest building became an empty, grim monument to the effects of corporate restructuring.
 There is little question that Lucent needed help to survive, and the merger may wind up saving jobs that would have been lost if Lucent had continued on its own. But still, the shock value of Lucent's fall from grace should not be lost on state policy makers. New Jersey might well brag about its affluence, median household income, high property values and educated work force, but only a fool would take any of this for granted. 
 The state's much-abused treasury is hardly the only economic problem Mr. Corzine has inherited. He will have to deal with the state's vulnerabilities in industries like telecommunications and technology, once thought to be embedded in New Jersey's DNA. It is imperative that Mr. Corzine's new economic advisers come up with a plan to develop new businesses and create new private-sector jobs. Local communities, heavily dependent on property taxes, inevitably bear the brunt of corporate relocations. A smart statewide strategy will take this into consideration.
 Politicians once held out the promise that white-collar jobs were the ticket to economic stability. Thousands of New Jerseyans have found out otherwise, a trend that may be exacerbated by the latest news from Murray Hill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TRENDS (89%); MERGERS (89%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); LAYOFFS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); DIVESTITURES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (71%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (71%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (65%); PROPERTY TAX (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Labor; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Economic Conditions and Trends; Editorials

COMPANY: AT&T INC (95%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (85%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: Lucent Technologies Inc; Alcatel Sa

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); ALU (PAR) (85%); ALU (NYSE) (85%); ALU (BIT) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (85%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (85%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (72%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (72%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (90%) Jon S (Gov) Corzine

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); FRANCE (77%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



234 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1510 words

HEADLINE: McCain Emphasizing His Conservative Bona Fides

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Tim Eaton contributed reporting from Austin, Tex., for this article.

DATELINE: KEENE, N.H., April 8 

 BODY:
Senator John McCain began his week by embracing the Rev. Jerry Falwell, the conservative religious leader he once denounced as polarizing. He ended it by joining Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the liberal Massachusetts icon, in a fight for an immigration bill opposed by many conservatives.
 Mr. McCain has long sought to present himself as a singular sort of American politician -- straight-talking, iconoclastic and hard to quantify. But as he began a campaign-style trip here that will take him through Florida, Ohio and Iowa, he faced an extraordinarily complex political challenge as he sought to reconcile his appeals to an unusually diverse audience and cement his early standing in the emerging Republican presidential field.
Mr. McCain's alliance with Mr. Kennedy comes as he has embarked on a campaign to repair strains with conservatives and a once-wary Bush White House. He is portraying himself as a lifelong conservative and a steadfast supporter of President Bush, once a political rival, courting his senior staff members and fund-raisers. 
 He has endorsed Bush tax cuts he once criticized as fiscally ruinous, and he agreed to appear at a commencement at Liberty University, headed by Mr. Falwell, whom Mr. McCain once called an agent of ''intolerance.'' 
 But a strategy designed to muscle him through the 2008 Republican primaries -- should he ultimately run, which aides says is likely but not definite -- risks diluting the independent image that has been central to his political appeal. Already, Mr. McCain is facing stiff questions from supporters and critics about how far he will go to win support from conservative leaders who have long been wary of him.
 ''You're killing me here,'' Jon Stewart, host of ''The Daily Show'' on Comedy Central, said after introducing Mr. McCain as one of his favorite guests earlier this week. ''You're not freaking out on us -- are you going into crazy-base world?''
 After the reference to his appeal to the party's conservative base, a laughing Mr. McCain responded, ''I'm afraid so.''
 In an interview at his Senate office, where he had urged a reporter to watch the Stewart interview on an office computer, Mr. McCain said that he had not changed any position for political reasons, and that he was more conservative than his occasional high-profile breaks with the right might lead casual observers to believe.
 But unbidden, he acknowledged the danger of the perception that he had become politically expedient. Mr. McCain said there was ''much increased sensitivity for me not to display traces of hypocrisy'' because of the way he had defined himself.
 ''I would argue that I have not changed any of my positions, and if I did really change my positions on issues, that I would lose what is probably one of the greatest attractions that people have for me, and that is as a person who stands up for what he believes in,'' Mr. McCain said, appearing subdued during a break from the debate on his immigration bill. ''But you know, I understand why some people would say, 'Wow!' when they hear that I'm speaking at Liberty University.''
 ''I've always been a conservative,'' he said. ''I think my voting record clearly indicates that on economic issues, national security issues, social issues -- I'm pro-life -- so I think I could make an argument I've had a pretty clear 20-some-year record basically being conservative.''
 Mr. McCain's associates said it would be nearly impossible to win the nomination without quelling concern among conservatives who, even before his immigration bill -- over which he was attacked by Republicans at two town hall meetings he held during his 24 hours here -- were concerned by his advocacy for campaign finance laws, a global warming treaty and gun control.
 A critical part of Mr. McCain's strategy to win the nomination is to persuade conservatives to swallow concerns about those views by presenting himself as the most electable Republican because of his appeal to moderates and independents. That distinction could fade should Mr. McCain emerge with a lasting reputation as conservative or hypocritical, his advisers said.
 If he has not changed his positions, as Mr. McCain repeatedly insisted in an interview, he has at the very least changed the coloring of how he has presented himself to the public.
 After denouncing Mr. Bush's tax cuts when they were first proposed, he voted in favor of making them permanent. He spoke approvingly of a South Dakota law that would prohibit virtually all abortions, part of an effort by abortion opponents to prod the Supreme Court to overturn Roe v. Wade, though he said it should include an exemption for rape, incest and protecting the life of the mother.
 He said schools should be allowed to offer ''intelligent design'' courses as an alternative to evolution, a huge issue for many conservatives. And he accepted the invitation to speak at the Liberty University commencement by Mr. Falwell, saying he saw no difference between that and accepting an invitation from Bob Kerrey, the former senator from Nebraska, to speak at the New School, where Mr. Kerrey is president.
 ''Rev. Falwell came to see me and said he wanted to put our issues behind us -- and I did, too,'' Mr. McCain said. ''I believe the worst thing you can do in life, much less politics, is to hold grudges.''
 That explanation did not go over especially well with people who came to hear him speak this weekend.
 ''This is a radical religious movement that Jerry Falwell is part of,'' Silas Bennett, 27, a student at Keene State College, said in challenging Mr. McCain's explanation Saturday morning. ''Don't you think that legitimizes the movement?''
 Mr. McCain responded: ''We have an honest difference of opinion of that, quote, movement. Christian conservatives are a part of the Republican Party.''
 But Mr. McCain's reconciliation campaign has had some success with conservative leaders. Mr. Falwell spoke warmly of Mr. McCain, saying he was as conservative on social issues as any Republican who might run for president.
 ''I've felt since I first knew about him that he stood on the right side of the ball on social issues,'' Mr. Falwell said. ''I don't think he has changed his views. He is certainly pro-life. He clearly is an advocate of the husband-female family, he does not support same-sex marriage. I know of no reason I could not support him.''
 Other conservatives expressed reservations about his politics and sincerity.
 ''His challenge is that having been a Reagan Republican on taxes, guns and Kyoto, and having left that, and now thinking about coming back -- he's got to overcome the original sense of betrayal and the new sense of flip-flopping,'' said Grover Norquist, the head of Americans for Tax Reform. ''This is not easy. You can't be the straight-talk express with two positions on every given issue.''
 Marshall Wittmann, a senior fellow at the Democratic Leadership Council and a former adviser to Mr. McCain, disputed any suggestion that Mr. McCain was trying to repackage his political product.
 ''Neither the right nor the left understands him,'' Mr. Wittmann said. ''He's always had unconventional alliances. It's just now the left doesn't like the alliances he's making when in the past they would have approved of them.
 ''If John McCain had been elected in 2000,'' he continued, ''he would likely have been as conservative or more conservative than President Bush.''
 On a second front, after a famously rancorous primary battle with Mr. Bush in 2000, Mr. McCain has made a methodical effort to rebuild his standing with the Bush family. It started in 2004, when he latched himself to Mr. Bush's side, and has continued this year with his defense of an increasingly isolated Mr. Bush on the war in Iraq and the proposed Dubai ports deal.
 Last week, Mr. McCain went to Texas to speak at a program sponsored by the George Bush Presidential Library Foundation, where he offered effusive praise of the president's mother and father, who were beaming at his side. 
 Two of Mr. Bush's senior campaign advisers -- Mark McKinnon, his media consultant, and Terry Nelson, his political director -- are now advising Mr. McCain. Tom Loeffler, a former Texas congressman and one of the prime fund-raisers for President Bush and his father, is now raising money for Mr. McCain. 
 Over the past year, Mr. McCain has been getting advice from Mark Wallace, who was deputy campaign manager for Mr. Bush's campaign in 2004, and last week, he and his senior adviser, John Weaver, took Marc Racicot, who was chairman of the Bush 2004 campaign, to lunch as part of an effort to recruit him.
 As he campaigned through New Hampshire this weekend, Mr. McCain seemed almost to enjoy the complicated road he was following: defending his immigration bills against an angry challenge from a former Republican state representative from North Hampton one moment, and saying that Mr. Bush had not been given the credit he deserved for the roaring economy the next.
 ''I think a lot of people don't exactly get where I'm at,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John McCain, in a campaign-style trip to New Hampshire, attended a Republican fund-raiser on Friday in Concord. (Photo by Robert Spencer for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); RELIGION (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); IMMIGRATION (57%) Presidential Election of 2008; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2008

ORGANIZATION: LIBERTY UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); TED KENNEDY (89%); JON STEWART (79%) Adam Nagourney; John S (Sen) Mccain; George W (Pres) Bush; Jerry (Rev) Falwell

GEOGRAPHIC: CONCORD, NH, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2006



235 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Globalizing Good Government

BYLINE: By Richard W. Fisher and W. Michael Cox. 
Richard W. Fisher and W. Michael Cox are, respectively, the president and the chief economist of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. Peter Hoey is an illustrator in Arcata, Calif.

 BODY:
THE protests in France over job security for young workers have exposed the fault lines between globalization and public policy. On the one hand, the French government has recognized that the country's labor laws are uncompetitive and a drain on the economy. The public reaction, however, shows the depth of popular misunderstanding regarding the realities of our globalizing economy.
 Nations can no longer sit within their borders and pursue policies incompatible with an increasingly integrated world economy. The types of services, manufacturing and entrepreneurship that generate national wealth are more mobile than ever, and they will forsake countries that shackle business and labor with unnecessary burdens. 
With this in mind, the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas set out to document the connection between globalization and public policy. We found that the more globalized nations tend to pursue policies that achieve faster economic growth, lower inflation, higher incomes and greater economic freedom. The least globalized countries are prone to policies that interfere with markets and lead to stagnation, inflation and diminished competitiveness.
 For our study, we began with research by Foreign Policy magazine and AT Kearney, a management consultancy firm, which ranked 60 countries by degree of globalization. Singapore, Ireland, the United States and other countries at the top of the rankings are far more integrated into the world economy than the insulated nations at the bottom like Iran, Egypt and Bangladesh. As the accompanying charts show, we divided the countries into four groups and looked at how each faction performed on policies that shape economic performance. 
 Take inflation. In a world where investment capital can flit anywhere in the world with the click of a computer mouse, nations should see the virtue of price stability and preserving the value of money. And they do: the more globalized countries we studied had an average inflation rate of 2.3 percent from 2001 to 2003, compared with 10 percent for the nations in the least globalized quarter. 
 This pattern is repeated in more than a dozen aspects of effective public policy, as measured by the World Bank, Harvard University, the Heritage Foundation, Transparency International and the Fraser Institute, a Canadian public policy group. (Although these groups used various ranking systems to portray their data, we took the liberty of converting each to a 1-to-10 scale, with 10 being the most successful, for the accompanying graphs.)
 The gist is clear: as nations become more integrated into the world economy, they tend to maintain fewer barriers to trade and the movement of money. They are less likely to impose punishing corporate taxes and onerous regulations. Their technology policies are more favorable to innovation. Nations more open to the world economy score above the less globalized countries in respect for the rule of law and protection of property rights. More globalized countries also offer greater political stability. 
 Not all policies fit neatly into this framework. We found that more globalized counties do no better in limiting the size of government, which we consider vital to economic prosperity. They are worse than the less globalized in containing public entitlements and subsidies, which must be paid for by higher individual income taxes. Perhaps it is because they are richer and have the means to spread those riches through their societies.
 The French contretemps illustrates why labor policies are less sensitive to globalization than factors like taxation and trade barriers. As long as workers refuse to acknowledge that they are competing in a world economy, they will petition a wealthy government to protect their jobs. This in turn slows job growth and raises unemployment, creating a greater demand for expensive and expansive safety nets for idle workers. 
 Still, globalization may yet alter labor policies. France, Germany and other countries are beginning to recognize that their labor rules are uncompetitive, and the timing of change is a political question, not an economic one. 
 So, do our statistics show that globalization is necessarily the cause of good policies? That would be overstating it -- our data simply show the two trends are complementary. But it is clear that countries with solid policies will be more successful in the global economy, encouraging further openness and deeper cross-border connections. The chicken-and-egg debate shouldn't detract from the fundamental fact that globalization and good policies go together.
 Globalization's critics argue that a more open world economy sets off a race to the bottom by encouraging countries to jettison protections for consumers, workers and the environment. In reality, the opposite is true. If our data demonstrate anything, it is that globalization prompts a race to the top by pushing countries to abandon policies that burden their economies in favor of those that fuel growth and economic opportunity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBALIZATION (92%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RANKINGS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); TRENDS (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (66%); COMPUTER POINTING DEVICES (62%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%) International Trade and World Market; Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (70%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (70%)

PERSON: Richard W Fisher; W Michael Cox

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (91%); EGYPT (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006



236 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1909 words

HEADLINE: As Katrina Recedes, Newspapers Still Float 

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: BILOXI, Miss., April 8 

 BODY:
Glenn Currie, an architect, slid 50 cents into a coin box here the other morning and pulled out a copy of The Sun Herald, the local daily published in nearby Gulfport.
 ''I read it every day,'' he said. ''They report what we need to know.''
 Mr. Currie, 59, said he especially appreciated the paper's before-and-after series, which features a building before Hurricane Katrina struck seven months ago, and after, often to shocking effect.
 Less than 80 miles west in New Orleans, a similarly intense reader interest is taking place. At CC's coffeehouse on Magazine Street one morning last week, there were so many people absorbed in that day's Times-Picayune that the scene looked like a commuter train. 
 ''These writers are energized and passionate,'' said Angele Thionville, 34, a mother of three boys, as she glanced up from the paper. She was not a big fan of The Times-Picayune before Katrina, she said, but now if she misses the paper one day, ''I feel so out of touch.''
 While much of the country has moved on from coverage of Katrina, considered the largest natural disaster in modern American history, both The Sun Herald and The Times-Picayune remain all Katrina, all the time. For their role in covering and enduring the storm, both papers have received accolades, and next week both may well receive Pulitzer Prizes. 
 Both papers have struggled along with their communities, and during the recovery have faced some similar issues and adopted similar approaches to their new reality. But there are major differences, too. Both have taken on a new importance as news sources and as advocates in their communities. With buildings along 70 miles of the Gulf Coast reduced to matchsticks and parts of New Orleans abandoned and still without reliable electricity or phone service, The Sun Herald and Times-Picayune are connecting with readers the way newspapers did before the arrival of television.
 The big question, ultimately tied to the economic fortunes of their areas, is what kind of future these newspapers will have as news organizations and businesses. Here their stories diverge. The Sun Herald, which before the storm had a circulation of 47,000 daily and 55,000 on Sunday, has rebuilt its circulation and advertising base; it is just 400 shy of its prestorm circulation and a few percentage points short of its prestorm ad revenue. 
 Even as many homes and buildings remain skeletal or in mounds of debris, the presence of casinos here and the likelihood that more will come has instilled confidence in the region.
 The Times-Picayune, which had more than five times the circulation of The Sun Herald, now has regained about two-thirds of its readers, with a circulation of 176,000 daily and 196,000 on Sunday. But readers are returning faster than advertisers. Only 10 percent of the city's businesses have reopened. ''We're suffering significant revenue losses,'' said Ashton Phelps Jr., publisher of the newspaper, which is owned by Advance Publications.
 The obstacles that New Orleans and its newspaper faced in the storm and continue to face are on a different order of magnitude from the Gulf Coast as a whole. More than 200 people died in Mississippi, and 300 are still missing. In New Orleans, more than 1,100 died, and 2,000 are missing.
 New Orleans faces bigger challenges, too, in part because of its terrain. The water remained in New Orleans, while it quickly drained from other communities along the coast. New Orleans is scrambling to reinforce the levees as the next hurricane season approaches, and residents are still waiting for flood maps before they decide whether to rebuild, leaving a cloud of uncertainty over the city. It is also in the midst of a chaotic mayor's race with two dozen candidates, making its leadership seem unstable and its direction unclear.
 The tiny Sun Herald, indeed much of the Gulf Coast, has been overshadowed by the attention paid to New Orleans. But recognition may be at hand. Editor & Publisher, which reports on the newspaper business, said last month that The Sun Herald was in line to receive the Pulitzer Prize for public service. 
 The Times-Picayune, according to Editor & Publisher, is a Pulitzer finalist in two categories: commentary (by Chris Rose, one of its columnists) and breaking news, for reporting that a major levee had been breached and the city was being flooded while other media were reporting that New Orleans had been spared.
 The Pulitzer board, which does not comment on finalists at this stage of the process, is meeting in New York later in the week to vote on the winners, and is to announce them next Monday. 
 The report that The Sun Herald may be under consideration for the public service award, journalism's highest honor, has already been something of a victory for the paper -- and something of a disappointment for The Times-Picayune, stoking a newfound competition between the two. The Sun Herald likes to emphasize that it did not miss a day of print publication, while The Times-Picayune points to the scope of the disaster in New Orleans and its near-impossible reporting conditions. 
 The Pulitzer board can move finalists to different categories, so no one can say if either paper will make the cut or in which category. But the head-to-head competition over Katrina coverage suggests that the board will have to grapple with the very definition of public service.
 The spotlight on New Orleans after Katrina has been a sore point for Mississippi. The Sun Herald has editorialized to that effect, complaining that the national media had left the broader Gulf Coast a footnote in the New Orleans story. 
 Before the storm, The Sun Herald, which is owned by Knight Ridder, had an emergency plan in place. The paper, in advance, sent four of its news staff members and two Knight Ridder designers to its sister paper, The Ledger-Enquirer in Columbus, Ga., while most of the staff reported along the coast and hunkered down in the Sun Herald building. 
 The building was built after Hurricane Camille destroyed the region in 1969. It sustained little damage from Katrina, and its presses remained dry, but it lost all power and communications. Shortly, the Knight Ridder cavalry arrived in Gulfport.
 ''They showed up with sat phones, chain saws, food and water,'' said Stan Tiner, The Sun Herald's editor and a former marine. ''The logistics were very well organized.'' Even P. Anthony Ridder, the company's chief executive, showed up.
 The Times-Picayune staff evacuated its building in delivery trucks as the floodwaters rose, and headed to Baton Rouge, La. A small band of reporters and editors felt sick at the thought of leaving and commandeered a delivery truck to return to New Orleans, defying martial law to report the news. The Times-Picayune suspended publication for three days. 
 Staff members at both papers experienced much of the grief that their readers did, but while many lost their houses, no employees died. Some lost loved ones, and all have their own harrowing tales.
 Jean Prescott, 64, a features writer at The Sun Herald, said that her sister and her sister's husband drowned in their house. The authorities subsequently misplaced the bodies, she said, then they cremated someone else instead of her sister. The family did not receive her sister's ashes for three months.
 ''It wasn't unique,'' Ms. Prescott said. ''So many people were found dead, they just couldn't keep track.''
 Workers at both papers said they are throwing themselves into telling their readers' stories instead of coping with their own.
 ''We're journalists and we just pack it away,'' said James O'Byrne, 46, features editor of The Times-Picayune, whose home was ruined. ''You don't get a special badge of courage for losing your home,'' he said; it was a common event.
 Anita Lee, 49, a reporter at The Sun Herald, said, ''We're just not dealing with a lot of it,'' as she stepped around the debris of her former home and showed off the government-issued trailer where she lives now. ''Our insurance is up in the air, our S.B.A. loan is not finalized, our house has not been torn down, and we're writing about other people in the same situation.''
 In some ways, she said, the shared experience with her readers has made her job easier. ''I always tried to get to a level of understanding with the people I was interviewing,'' she said. ''Now I get there a lot quicker.''
 The experience has given the pages of both papers a new urgency, and both seem less constrained by traditional objectivity, to the point of printing front-page editorials.
 ''We're far more direct in getting at what we think matters,'' said Jim Amoss, the editor of The Times-Picayune. ''The urgency is palpable.''
 Mike Perlstein, 45, a criminal justice reporter at The Times-Picayune, said that articles about underhanded dealings and ''good-old-boy New Orleans ways of doing things'' that once drew ho-hum reactions are now ''drawing howls of outrage from readers and keeping the news staff really engaged.''
 ''There are issues on the business side, as there are with any newspaper,'' he added. ''But we're still riding a riveting and unbelievable story about the rebuilding of a major American city.''
 Part of that rebuilding for the city and the paper depends on the return of advertisers. ''It's a chicken-and-egg thing,'' said Tod Smith, who directs advertising plans for major clients in New Orleans. ''What comes first, the services that people need? Or the people who support the services? There are a lot of unanswered questions.''
 The paper has many ads for car dealers (many people had car insurance, so practically all cars in New Orleans look brand new). The paper also is running small ads for services like mold remediation and air-duct cleaning. And its big department store, Dillard's, is open and buying full-page ads.
 On the Gulf Coast, Dillard's remains shuttered. But Vicki Barrett, the advertising director at The Sun Herald, said that what the paper had lost in retail advertising, it had gained in classified ads. Perhaps one measure of the comeback status of both regions is an ad in The Sun Herald that would seem unthinkable in New Orleans -- a company promising to meet ''all your swimming pool needs.'' 
 The Sun Herald is optimistic about its future. South Mississippi, with its miles of white sandy beachfront and new casinos being built inland, expects more than $30 billion in new investment in the next few years.
 ''It's going to be a boom like no newspaper market has ever seen,'' said Ricky R. Mathews, The Sun Herald's publisher.
 Gary Pruitt, the chief executive of McClatchy, which recently agreed to buy Knight Ridder, agrees. Mr. Pruitt is selling 12 of Knight Ridder's 32 papers, but he is keeping The Sun Herald, saying it meets his criteria for a growth market.
 ''We're basing our decision on our readings of the business and population projections and the resiliency of the local economy,'' he said.
 Mr. Phelps, of The Times-Picayune, addressed the matter at a meeting of newspaper executives recently.
 ''The $64,000 question for us is this: What is the economy going to look like 18 months, two years from now, when most of the insurance checks have been cashed and the federal relief efforts taper off?'' Mr. Phelps asked. 
 ''We just don't know,'' he said, adding later: ''The truth is that it's so big, we have still not found the bottom of how life has changed for us. We're still riding Katrina's winds.''


CORRECTION-DATE: April 14, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Monday about the efforts of two newspapers, The Sun Herald of Gulfport and The Times-Picayune of New Orleans, to recover from Hurricane Katrina misstated the effect of the storm on The Times-Picayune. The paper did not suspend publication for three days, only publication of its print edition. An electronic edition was available each day on the paper's Web site. A credit was omitted for a picture of Angele Thionville, a Times-Picayune reader. It was by Ozier Muhammad of The New York Times.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Byron Fazande, left, and Charles Zardes, along with other customers, reading The Times-Picayune at a cafe in New Orleans.
Stan Tiner, editor of The Sun Herald, surveying damage in Mississippi. His building in Gulfport was able to withstand the storm. (Photographs by Cheryl Gerber for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
James O'Byrne of The Times-Picayune visiting his flooded house in New Orleans
Angele Thionville watching over her 2-month-old boy, Marcel, as she reads.
 Margaret Baker, left, and Anita Lee, reporters for The Sun Herald outside their damaged home in Biloxi. They now live in a trailer. (Photographs by Cheryl Gerber for The New York Times)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (85%); WRITERS (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); HURRICANES (76%); TROPICAL STORMS (76%); WEATHER (76%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (74%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (60%); TRAINS (54%); HISTORY (51%) Newspapers; Advertising and Marketing; Awards, Decorations and Honors; Pulitzer Prizes; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Newspapers

ORGANIZATION: Sun Herald (Mississippi Newspaper); Times-Picayune (Newspaper)

PERSON: Katharine Q Seelye

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); GULFPORT, MS, USA (93%); BILOXI, MS, USA (90%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Orleans (La); Louisiana; Mississippi

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006



237 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 180 words

HEADLINE: LOOKING AHEAD

 BODY:

A WAL-MART BANK? -- The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation begins two days of hearings today on Wal-Mart's application to start its own bank. Dozens of groups have signed up to testify. 


IN HIS OWN WORDS -- Jeffrey K. Skilling, Enron's former chief executive, is expected to take the stand in Houston this week, possibly as early as today. Lawyers for Mr. Skilling and Kenneth L. Lay, Enron's founder, began calling witnesses last week. .

MARKET PAUSE -- Financial markets in the United States and in many other countries will be closed on Friday in observance of Good Friday.

ECONOMIC PULSE -- The biggest economic report of the week will be the trade deficit figure for February, which will be released on Wednesday. In other reports, import prices and retail sales for March are due on Thursday, while industrial production and capacity utilization for March are out on Friday.

PROFIT WATCH -- Earnings season kicks off with Alcoa today; Genentech tomorrow; Circuit City on Wednesday; General Electric, The New York Times Company and Tribune on Thursday; and Knight Ridder on Friday.

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); WITNESSES (90%); TESTIMONY (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); EASTER SEASON (73%); RETAIL SALES (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); EXECUTIVES (56%); IMPORT PRICES (52%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (91%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (69%); WAL-MART STORES INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%); ALCOA INC (55%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (69%); WMT (NYSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%); AAI (ASX) (55%); AA (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (91%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (69%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (69%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (55%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006



238 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Research Funds Often Lead to Start-Ups, Study Says

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
A new study of university scientists who received federal financing from the National Cancer Institute found that they generated patents at a rapid pace and started companies in surprisingly high numbers.
 The study, the authors say, suggests that the commercial payoff for the government's support for basic research and development in the life sciences is greater than previously thought.
The paper, to be published today, comes at a time when politicians and policy makers in the United States and Europe are questioning the value of government funds invested in fundamental research. In theory, those investments should be a wise use of taxpayers' money, according to many economists, who assert that innovation must be an engine of economic growth and job creation in developed nations. 
 The new study, by economists at Indiana University and the Max Planck Institute of Economics in Germany, is an attempt to analyze the commercial activity of university scientists in a field where government financing of basic research has been quite generous. 
 Federal financing of the National Institutes of Health has not grown in the last couple of years, but it increased by two and a half times in the decade before 2005. The National Cancer Institute is the largest of the N.I.H. units, with an annual budget of $4.8 billion, and much of its spending goes to support university research.
 The report's authors studied the activities of nearly 1,700 scientists who received the largest grants from the cancer institute from 1998 to 2002. In the past, most studies of patent activity by university researchers have looked at patents assigned to university technology transfer offices, the traditional path to commercializing academic research.
 The study found that 70 percent of scientists whose research resulted in patents assigned their patents to technology transfer offices. The other 30 percent chose to sidestep university technology offices, often taking the more entrepreneurial path of trying commercialize their inventions on their own.
 The report found that more than one-quarter of the scientists who were awarded patents said they had started their own business -- ''an astonishingly high rate of entrepreneurship,'' the authors said.
 ''The investments in research and development are spilling out into the economy more than was appreciated,'' said David B. Audretsch, an economist at Indiana University, who also holds an appointment at the Max Planck institute. ''These scientists are doing a lot more than sitting in labs and publishing papers.''
 The entrepreneurial zeal of academics also raises concerns, like whether the direction of research is being overly influenced by the marketplace. ''Are basic scientific questions being neglected because there isn't a quick path to commercialization?'' said Toby E. Stuart, a professor at the Columbia Graduate School of Business. ''No one really knows the answer to that question.''
 There is also the issue of elite scientists enriching themselves from research financed by taxpayers' dollars. But historically, that has not been a policy concern. Instead, steps have been taken to encourage federally financed research to move out of universities and into the marketplace -- notably, the Bayh-Dole Act of 1980, which allowed universities to hold the patents on federally financed research and to license that intellectual property to industry.
 ''At the end of the day, without commercialization, these ideas don't find their way to people,'' said Anna D. Barker, deputy director of the National Cancer Institute. ''Increasingly, we have scientific entrepreneurs. And that's a good thing. What we have to do is intelligently balance two considerations -- to smooth the path to commercialization, but also guard against conflicts of interest that could undermine science.''
 Besides Mr. Audretsch, the authors of the report are Taylor Aldridge and Alexander Oettl, researchers at the Max Planck institute. The report was financed by the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation, which supports studies on innovation. The study is to be posted on the foundation's Web site, www.kauffman.org.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH INSTITUTES (91%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); WRITERS (90%); CANCER (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER (89%); PATENTS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); JOB CREATION (69%) Colleges and Universities; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Research; Cancer; Inventions and Patents; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (93%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (55%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (56%) National Cancer Institute

PERSON: Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006



239 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1539 words

HEADLINE: With Big Boost From Sugar Cane, Brazil Is Satisfying Its Fuel Needs

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: PIRACICABA, Brazil 

 BODY:
At the dawn of the automobile age, Henry Ford predicted that ''ethyl alcohol is the fuel of the future.'' With petroleum about $65 a barrel, President Bush has now embraced that view, too. But Brazil is already there.
 This country expects to become energy self-sufficient this year, meeting its growing demand for fuel by increasing production from petroleum and ethanol. Already the use of ethanol, derived in Brazil from sugar cane, is so widespread that some gas stations have two sets of pumps, marked A for alcohol and G for gas.
In his State of the Union address in January, Mr. Bush backed financing for ''cutting-edge methods of producing ethanol, not just from corn but wood chips and stalks or switch grass'' with the goal of making ethanol competitive in six years. 
 But Brazil's path has taken 30 years of effort, required several billion dollars in incentives and involved many missteps. While not always easy, it provides clues to the real challenges facing the United States' ambitions. 
 Brazilian officials and scientists say that, in their country at least, the main barriers to the broader use of ethanol today come from outside. Brazil's ethanol yields nearly eight times as much energy as corn-based options, according to scientific data. Yet heavy import duties on the Brazilian product have limited its entry into the United States and Europe. 
 Brazilian officials and scientists say sugar cane yields are likely to increase because of recent research. 
 ''Renewable fuel has been a fantastic solution for us,'' Brazil's minister of agriculture, Roberto Rodrigues, said in a recent interview in Sao Paulo, the capital of Sao Paulo State, which accounts for 60 percent of sugar production in Brazil. ''And it offers a way out of the fossil fuel trap for others as well.''
 Here, where Brazil has cultivated sugar cane since the 16th century, green fields of cane, stalks rippling gently in the tropical breeze, stretch to the horizon, producing a crop that is destined to be consumed not just as candy and soft drinks but also in the tanks of millions of cars.
 The use of ethanol in Brazil was greatly accelerated in the last three years with the introduction of ''flex fuel'' engines, designed to run on ethanol, gasoline or any mixture of the two. (The gasoline sold in Brazil contains about 25 percent alcohol, a practice that has accelerated Brazil's shift from imported oil.)
 But Brazilian officials and business executives say the ethanol industry would develop even faster if the United States did not levy a tax of 54 cents a gallon on all imports of Brazilian cane-based ethanol.
 With demand for ethanol soaring in Brazil, sugar producers recognize that it is unrealistic to think of exports to the United States now. But Brazilian leaders complain that Washington's restrictions have inhibited foreign investment, particularly by Americans.
 As a result, ethanol development has been led by Brazilian companies with limited capital. But with oil prices soaring, the four international giants that control much of the world's agribusiness -- Archer Daniels Midland, Bunge and Born, Cargill and Louis Dreyfuss -- have recently begun showing interest.
 Brazil says those and other outsiders are welcome. Aware that the United States and other industrialized countries are reluctant to trade their longstanding dependence on oil for a new dependence on renewable fuels, government and industry officials say they are willing to share technology with those interested in following Brazil's example.
 ''We are not interested in becoming the Saudi Arabia of ethanol,'' said Eduardo Carvalho, director of the National Sugarcane Agro-Industry Union, a producer's group. ''It's not our strategy because it doesn't produce results. As a large producer and user, I need to have other big buyers and sellers in the international market if ethanol is to become a commodity, which is our real goal.''
 The ethanol boom in Brazil, which took off at the start of the decade after a long slump, is not the first. The government introduced its original ''Pro-Alcohol'' program in 1975, after the first global energy crisis, and by the mid-1980's, more than three quarters of the 800,000 cars made in Brazil each year could run on cane-based ethanol.
 But when sugar prices rose sharply in 1989, mill owners stopped making cane available for processing into alcohol, preferring to profit from the hard currency that premium international markets were paying.
 Brazilian motorists were left in the lurch, as were the automakers who had retooled their production lines to make alcohol-powered cars. Ethanol fell into discredit, for economic rather than technical reasons.
 Consumers' suspicions remained high through the 1990's and were overcome only in 2003, when automakers, beginning with Volkswagen, introduced the ''flex fuel'' motor in Brazil. Those engines gave consumers the autonomy to buy the cheapest fuel, freeing them from any potential shortages in ethanol's supply. Also, ethanol-only engines can be slower to start when cold, a problem the flex fuel owners can bypass. 
 ''Motorists liked the flex-fuel system from the start because it permits them free choice and puts them in control,'' said Vicente Lourenco, technical director at General Motors do Brasil.
 Today, less than three years after the technology was introduced, more than 70 percent of the automobiles sold in Brazil, expected to reach 1.1 million this year, have flex fuel engines, which have entered the market generally without price increases. 
 ''The rate at which this technology has been adopted is remarkable, the fastest I have ever seen in the motor sector, faster even than the airbag, automatic transmission or electric windows,'' said Barry Engle, president of Ford do Brasil. ''From the consumer standpoint, it's wonderful, because you get flexibility and you don't have to pay for it.''
 Yet the ethanol boom has also brought the prospect of distortions that may not be as easy to resolve. The expansion of sugar production, for example, has come largely at the expense of pasture land, leading to worries that the grazing of cattle, another booming export product, could be shifted to the Amazon, encouraging greater deforestation.
 Industry and government officials say such concerns are unwarranted. Sugar cane's expanding frontier is, they argue, an environmental plus, because it is putting largely abandoned or degraded pasture land back into production. And of course, ethanol burns far cleaner that fossil fuels.
 Human rights and worker advocacy groups also complain that the boom has led to more hardships for the peasants who cut sugar cane.
 ''You used to have to cut 4 tons a day, but now they want 8 or 10, and if you can't make the quota, you'll be fired,'' said Silvio Donizetti Palvequeres, president of the farmworkers union in Ribeirao Preto, an important cane area north of here. ''We have to work a lot harder than we did 10 years ago, and the working conditions continue to be tough.''
 Producers say that problem will be eliminated in the next decade by greater mechanization. A much more serious long-term worry, they say, is Brazil's lack of infrastructure, particularly its limited and poorly maintained highways.
 Ethanol can be made through the fermentation of many natural substances, but sugar cane offers advantages over others, like corn. For each unit of energy expended to turn cane into ethanol, 8.3 times as much energy is created, compared with a maximum of 1.3 times for corn, according to scientists at the Center for Sugarcane Technology here and other Brazilian research institutes. 
 ''There's no reason why we shouldn't be able to improve that ratio to 10 to 1,'' said Suani Teixeira Coelho, director of the National Center for Biomass at the University of Sao Paulo. ''It's no miracle. Our energy balance is so favorable not just because we have high yields, but also because we don't use any fossil fuels to process the cane, which is not the case with corn.''
 Brazilian producers estimate that they have an edge over gasoline as long as oil prices do not drop below $30 a barrel. But they have already embarked on technical improvements that promise to lift yields and cut costs even more.
 In the past, the residue left when cane stalks are compressed to squeeze out juice was discarded. Today, Brazilian sugar mills use that residue to generate the electricity to process cane into ethanol, and use other byproducts to fertilize the fields where cane is planted.
 Some mills are now producing so much electricity that they sell their excess to the national grid. In addition, Brazilian scientists, with money from Sao Paulo State, have mapped the sugar cane genome. That opens the prospect of planting genetically modified sugar, if the government allows, that could be made into ethanol even more efficiently.
 ''There is so much biological potential yet to be developed, including varieties of cane that are resistant to pesticides and pests and even drought,'' said Tadeu Andrade, director of the Center for Sugarcane Technology. ''We've already had several qualitative leaps without that, and we are convinced there is no ceiling on productivity, at least theoretically.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ethanol, or alcool, is popular at a Sao Paulo station and across Brazil because it costs less than gas. (Photo by Lalo de Almeida for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
The sugar cane grown in Piracicaba, below, since the 16th century now goes to ethanol plants like Vale do Rosario, above, in Sao Paulo State.
 A man headed to work at a sugar plantation in Orlandia in Sao Paulo State, which accounts for 60 percent of the sugar production in Brazil. (Photographs by Lalo de Almeida for The New York Times)(pg. A10)Chart: ''Having It Both Ways''Ethanol-powered cars fell out of favor in Brazil when ethanol prices rose, and gasoline-powered cars took over the market. But in recent years, production of ''flex fuel'' cars, those that run on both ethanol and gasoline, has soared.Cars and vans produced in BrazilIn millionsGraph tracks number of Ethanol, Gasoline, and Flex Fuel cars and ans produced in Brazil since 1979.(Source by Brazil National Association of Vehicle Manufacturers)(pg. A10)Map of Brazil highlighting Piracicaba. (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLS (93%); ETHANOL (91%); BIOFUELS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); SUGAR FARMING (89%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); SUGAR MFG (89%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (87%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (87%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); AGRICULTURE (74%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); GAS STATIONS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (70%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); SOFT DRINKS (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Ethanol; Sugar; International Trade and World Market; Customs (Tariff); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

PERSON: Larry Rohter

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (88%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%) Europe; Brazil

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006



240 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Is One Museum Honoring Cheese Really Enough?

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ROME, N.Y., April 6 

 BODY:
Pork built the New York State Museum of Cheese here.
 Twenty years ago, the state spent $175,000 to help reconstruct and move a 19th-century cheddar cheese factory in the upstate community of Verona to Rome, a few miles away, and turn it into a shrine dedicated to the state's pioneering cheese industry.
An outcry followed, stoked by editorial writers, and thus cheese became a defining symbol of New York State's love of pork-barrel spending, one that still sticks. Just last fall, Gov. George E. Pataki said, ''We've seen enough cheese museums and pro wrestling halls of fame to know what our budgets would become: free-spending free-for-alls.''
 So this week, budget watchdogs and journalists were taken aback when it was revealed that a sliver of state funds had recently been directed to something called the Cuba Cheese Museum from a pool of cash controlled by Mr. Pataki. 
 That raised questions. How could state leaders spend on a second cheese museum given the storm of criticism two decades ago? And just what is the Cuba Cheese Museum? (It's not dedicated to Cuban cheeses, but merely is located in Cuba, in the southwestern part of New York.) 
 And, last, whatever happened to that first cheese museum anyway?
 As it turns out, it turned into a cash sinkhole.
 ''There's no money being made there now by me or anybody else,'' said Ron Trottier, a businessman and old-train enthusiast who bought the cheese museum in 2002 as part of a complex of more than a dozen old buildings and museums along the Erie Canal.
 Today, the biggest attraction at the complex, called Erie Canal Village, is not the cheese museum. Instead, it is the rides on a somewhat rickety-looking mule-drawn packet boat, and on a steam train that runs on narrow tracks. 
 The museum's original owner, the City of Rome, had hoped that Erie Canal Village, with its cheese museum, would become a destination preserving 19th-century life for the struggling city, like Old Sturbridge Village in Massachusetts. But the complex was losing $50,000 to $100,000 a year by 2002, said former Mayor Joseph A. Griffo.
 Mr. Trottier, a former Exxon chemical engineer who said he paid $225,000 for Erie Canal Village, said the village was fairly successful in its early years.
 ''Then the interest in it waned and the operating costs escalated, so the city had to do something,'' he said.
 That Rome's cheese museum is still up and running is testament to Erie Canal Village's longtime director, Melody Milewski. On Thursday, she guided a reporter around the three-story wooden building, past tin-lined vats once used for draining whey and ''curd rakes'' that resembled huge wooden combs. 
 Ms. Milewski said that Rome, N.Y., was the site of the world's first cheese factory, founded by Jesse Williams in the mid-19th century. ''Cheese was made in everyone's home, but the idea that Jesse Williams would buy from the local farmers their milk, and pay them, and then he would go ahead and make the cheese, that whole idea started in Rome,'' she said.
 A century ago, several hundred cheese and butter factories formed a C-shape around the Adirondack Mountains, the museum's exhibits explain. But the industry suffered a setback in 1895, when a new law banned saloons from enticing customers with free lunches, which often featured cheese. Today, New York trails Wisconsin and California in cheese production.
 The Rome cheese museum was meant to chronicle the industry's early glory days in the state. Instead it became an example of modern-day state government pork, just as the Reagan-era Defense Department was maligned for spending $17.59 on a common metal bolt. 
 Critics say that it has become harder to find out what legislators are spending pork money on. Nearly $500 million has been set aside over the past three years, and $1.7 billion borrowed since 1997, that Albany leaders use for pet projects -- known as member items -- according to new reports from the Empire Center for New York State Policy, part of the Manhattan Institute, a conservative group, and the Center for Governmental Research, a nonprofit policy organization. These member items are little disclosed and not subject to the fiscal review required of other government spending.
 ''A lot of these projects are bigger cheese museums in which lots more money is involved,'' said Edmund J. McMahon, executive director of the Empire Center, who obtained detailed lists of legislators' pork projects through Freedom of Information Act requests.
 Nancy Larraine Hoffmann, a former state senator and current Republican candidate for lieutenant governor, was the champion of Rome's cheese museum. She still thinks it made sense at the time. ''It was a reasonable attempt, in a community facing real economic lows, to reach into an area where they had potential for making some revenues,'' she said. ''Unfortunately, the city never had, in my opinion, a significant enough budget for promotion.''
 Will Cuba, whose own cheese museum opened last year, have better luck? 
 The town is in southwestern New York, the state's other historic cheese-making center. In the grand scheme of things, the $5,000 in taxpayer money allocated to Cuba's cheese museum is a pittance for a state with a budget of more than $110 billion. 
 But the specter of taxpayers underwriting more cheese tourism is already touching nerves. Nico van Zwanenberg, the chairman of the Cuba museum, would not even begin a conversation with a reporter. ''You and I don't need to talk to each other,'' he said, and then hung up.
 While the $5,000 came out of a pot controlled by Mr. Pataki, it was spent by Senator Cathy Young, a Republican who was an assemblywoman when the money was allocated. Because the Democratic Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, and the Republican Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, divvy up member item money among their own legislators, minority parties in each chamber are left in the cold. Mr. Pataki often dips into his own pot to help Republican Assembly members.
 ''Tourism gives our economy a big boost,'' Senator Young said, when asked about the museum. ''In the 1800's and the early 1900's, Cuba was considered to be the cheese capital of the world. In fact, the national price for cheddar was set in Cuba every week at a meeting at a local hotel.''
 Both cheese museums were closed for the winter and re-open next month. 
 Even Rome's current mayor, James F. Brown, questioned the wisdom of spending money on cheese museums. 
 ''I look at return on investments,'' he said. ''I can make better use of that money some other way. You're not going to get it out of a cheese museum.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A 1915 photograph at the Rome museum shows a giant slab of cheese that was going to the World's Fair in San Francisco. Above, right, the Rome cheese museum is housed in an old cheddar cheese factory.
 A type of cheese cutter used in stores or saloons is displayed at the cheese museum in Rome, N.Y. (Photographs by Michael J. Okoniewski for The New York Times)(pg. B4)Map of New York highlighting Rome and Cuba: Rome and Cuba, N.Y., are both the sites of cheese museums. (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); CHEESE (90%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (78%); CHEESE MFG (78%); WRITERS (76%); JOURNALISM (76%); MAYORS (74%); TRAINS (64%); WRESTLING (55%) Dairy Products; Cheese; Museums

PERSON: Danny Hakim; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CUBA (92%) New York State; Rome (NY); cuba (ny); New York State

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006



241 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: Nationalist Ahead in Peru, but Faces Runoff

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru, April 9 

 BODY:
Ollanta Humala, a former military officer and fierce nationalist, received the most votes in the presidential election on Sunday, edging out a pro-globalization candidate, a former president and 17 other candidates by pledging to guide Peru away from Washington-backed market reforms.
 By Sunday night, unofficial results showed that Mr. Humala, 43, was far from securing the majority needed to win the vote outright and avoid a runoff. But Apoyo, a Lima polling firm, and independent electoral monitors said that highly accurate samples from across the country showed he had received nearly 30 percent of the vote. 
 ''The Peruvian people have expressed their desire for change in this country,'' Mr. Humala said Sunday night, speaking to supporters from the balcony of his campaign headquarters in Lima.
 As of 9 p.m., the unofficial tallies put him ahead of his challengers, Lourdes Flores and Alan Garcia, who remained tied for second. Mr. Humala will face one of the two in a second-round election which is likely to be scheduled for late next month.
 Polls have shown that Ms. Flores, a market-friendly former congresswoman, would beat Mr. Humala, but that a race between Mr. Humala and Mr. Garcia, who was president from 1985 to 1990, would be too tight to call.
 If Mr. Humala triumphs in a second round, Peru would join a continentwide political shift in which populist candidates have won office by proposing a break with the economic policies long advocated by the United States in Latin America. Mr. Humala, whose first name means the ''warrior who sees all,'' has openly expressed his admiration for Venezuela's populist president, Hugo Chavez, who in turn has praised Mr. Humala.
 The campaign has featured vastly different philosophies and styles. Mr. Humala promised to crack down on foreign multinational companies he said have plundered the country. He has promised to spread the wealth among the country's 27 million people, half of whom live in poverty.
 Ms. Flores, 46, a lawyer, cast herself as Peru's Michelle Bachelet, the socialist who was elected in neighboring Chile in December, and has an image of being honest, capable and progressive. The third major candidate was Mr. Garcia, 56, whose presidency ended in economic tumult and violence but who captivates many Peruvians with his oratory.
 Mr. Humala promised a drastic break from the policies of the current government of President Alejandro Toledo. A former shoeshine boy of indigenous descent who became a World Bank consultant, Mr. Toledo guided an economy that, in four years, grew by an average of 5 percent annually and recorded a dramatic rise in exports, particularly of minerals, which more than tripled in value since 2001.
 But personal scandals coupled with widespread disillusionment that strong economic data did not translate into prosperity made Mr. Toledo the most unpopular president in Latin America, with approval ratings in single digits for much of his five-year term. His government, which faced high expectations after the 10-year quasi-dictatorship of Alberto Fujimori, also failed to reform the military and the judiciary or to make big gains against corruption.
 ''He didn't know how to reach the people,'' said Myles Frechette, a former United States diplomat in Latin America. ''He didn't know how to sell his programs.''
 Still, Mr. Toledo, a constant target of Mr. Humala's campaign, has emphasized that his government laid the groundwork for the country's growth. Though he avoided using Mr. Humala's name, Mr. Toledo warned Peruvians that voting for Mr. Humala would hurt the country.
 To be sure, the possibility that Mr. Humala would win has worried many investors and the middle and upper classes in Lima. The Peruvian stock market dipped as Mr. Humala's popularity spiked in recent weeks, while Peru's currency, the sol, has lost value against the dollar.
 When Mr. Humala arrived to vote on Sunday morning at a local university in Lima, angry protesters prevented him from leaving until a police escort and representatives of the Organization of American States were able to rescue him. ''It reminded me of my days as a fullback,'' said Lloyd Axworthy, a Canadian who heads the O.A.S. mission, after helping lead Mr. Humala to safety.
 While infuriating to some, Mr. Humala's message has resonated with voters who feel that Peru has stagnated under Mr. Toledo.
 ''I'm 70, I've voted in 10 elections and I'm tired of politicians who fool us,'' said Augusto Valle, a retired technician, after casting his ballot in Lima. ''I want a nationalist politician who will take us on a new path, so I'm voting for the military man named Ollanta Humala.''
 Mr. Humala, who grew up in comfort in Lima, is hard to characterize politically on the left-right spectrum. He expresses pride in his military service, though the Peruvian army was notorious for its rights abuses and he has been accused by a handful of families of ordering murders and torture during a conflict with Shining Path, a Maoist rebel group.
 His father founded an ultranationalist movement, etnocacerismo, that celebrates the superiority of the Indian race over those Peruvians descended from the Spanish. His mother has called for gays to be shot and a brother, Antauro, led a rebellion against the government last year.
 Ollanta Humala has distanced himself from his family and tried to stress his message of a new economic direction for Peru. He has provided little detail, saying his plans are similar to those in countries like Venezuela, Bolivia and Argentina, where leftists have won office. 
 But political analysts in Peru have noted that Mr. Humala built his campaign on criticism of the existing system while offering scant insight into how he would govern.
 ''The people do not see a future and it's a vote that's more about protest than based on hope,'' said Fritz Du Bois, director of the Peruvian Economic Institute, a free-market research organization in Lima. ''What has helped Humala more than anything else is the inability of other candidates to generate hope.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); ETHICS (77%); POOR POPULATION (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); TRENDS (69%); SCANDALS (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) Elections; Public Opinion; United States International Relations; Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; Election Issues ; Ethics

PERSON: MICHELLE BACHELET (58%); HUGO CHAVEZ (57%) Juan Forero; Ollanta (Lt Col) Humala; Alan Garcia; Lourdes Flores; Alejandro (Pres) Toledo

GEOGRAPHIC: PERU (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHILE (79%) Peru; Peru

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006



242 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: At the Four A's, Jokes, Proposals and a Tribute

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

DATELINE: SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. 

 BODY:
HERE is a look back at some of the highlights, lowlights and sidelights of the 2006 management conference of the American Association of Advertising Agencies, known as the Four A's, which was held here last week.

SIBLING REVELRY -- Anyone needing a refresher course in public speaking ought to have been in the audience for the presentation by Andy Fletcher, president and chief executive at Fletcher Martin in Atlanta, part of MDC Partners. By larding his remarks with wry self-deprecation, he positioned himself to make a provocative argument to the managers of much larger agencies.
Mr. Fletcher began by mocking his status in the MDC hierarchy compared with better-known leaders of sibling agencies like Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Kirshenbaum Bond & Partners and Margeotes Fertitta Powell.
 If Chuck Porter had been speaking, Mr. Fletcher said, referring to the chairman of Crispin Porter, it would have been like having Alec Baldwin addressing the conference. He showed a clip of Mr. Baldwin as an eloquent salesman from the film ''Glengarry Glen Ross.'' 
 ''You don't get him; you get Stephen,'' Mr. Fletcher said, showing a clip of that Baldwin brother as the dopey Barney Rubble from the film ''The Flintstones in Viva Rock Vegas.'' He also used film clips to compare Richard Kirshenbaum, co-chairman at Kirshenbaum Bond, to Julia Roberts and himself to her brother, Eric.
 Mr. Fletcher then made the somewhat sensitive argument that ''we're trying to make too much money when we're trying to grow.'' The solution he offered was to plow 5 percent of profits each year back into the business, which would ''allow the people who make you the money to keep some of the money'' and ''keep some of the good people who get laid off.''

GIMME A (COMMERCIAL) BREAK -- One speaker drew laughter by making light of the debate over the future of an advertising mainstay, the 30-second television commercial, in the digital era.
 ''Yeah, I'll miss the television commercial, trying to fit 40 pages of strategic copy points into half a minute,'' and then cutting it down to 15 seconds, said Linda Kaplan Thaler, chief executive and chief creative officer at the Kaplan Thaler Group in New York, part of the Publicis Groupe. 
 She mocked over-the-top production techniques like presenting the entire cast of a commercial ''beautifully backlit, as if they are all from the planet Zotar, the land of many, many suns.''
 Ms. Kaplan Thaler also showed an elaborate spoof documentary predicting that if the TV commercial died, the Four A's would be reduced to holding its 2013 management conference at a motel in Oklahoma. That stark contrast to the site of the 2006 meeting, the Phoenician Resort here, particularly tickled the audience.

MONKEY SEE? -- One speaker, Andrew Robertson, president and chief executive at BBDO Worldwide in New York, part of the Omnicom Group, used photographs of gorillas, chimpanzees and monkeys to make a point about the relevance, or lack thereof, of big agencies. He displayed the photos as he reviewed lists of the 15 biggest agencies in 1995 and 2005.
 ''Leo Burnett, the big papa of the species, was there then, and is there now,'' Mr. Robertson said, as a picture of a gorilla appeared on screens onstage. ''There are some new faces, though,'' he added, like Deutsch, which ''powered its way into the top 15.''
 For Deutsch, Mr. Robertson showed a photo from the 2005 remake of ''King Kong.'' He paused, then declared, ''Wait, that's not Deutsch.''
 The photo was replaced with one of King Kong wearing a tight T-shirt, aping a look often sported by Donny Deutsch, chairman at Deutsch, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. The audience chortled.

OUTER LIMITS -- Peter D. Hart, principal at Peter D. Hart Research Associates, presented the results of a consumer survey his company conducted with the McGinn Group. When consumers were asked if they favored limiting commercials for certain types of products, most said ''yes,'' Mr. Hart reported.
 Fifty-one percent of respondents said they wanted to restrict prescription drug advertising on TV, and 23 percent said they wanted it banned outright. For certain types of spots in children's programs, the numbers were higher.
 Sixty-one percent of respondents said they would restrict commercials for fast food in such programs and 25 percent said they wanted a ban. For spots for snacks and sweets in children's shows, those figures rose to 62 percent and 26 percent, respectively.
 Women are more likely to favor bans than men, Mr. Hart said, which is especially worrisome for Madison Avenue because women generally make many more purchasing decisions than men.

MISSING YOU -- Several speakers paid heartfelt tribute to Ken Kaess, president and chief executive at the DDB Worldwide division of Omnicom, who died of cancer on March 27 at age 51. Mr. Kaess volunteered for many industry posts, including serving as the 2002-4 chairman of the association; he was the first to serve a two-year term.
 O. Burtch Drake, president and chief executive at the Four A's, invited the attendees to a memorial service for Mr. Kaess to be held in Midtown Manhattan on Wednesday, April 12. Mr. Kaess personally planned the service, Mr. Drake said, from the music to the menu.
 Mr. Drake is typically a straight-ahead type of speaker, but his voice seemed to quaver as he described Mr. Kaess's service to the association and the industry.

OFF THE PROGRAM -- Each year, the organizers of the conference try to schedule a speaker who is the chairman or the chief executive, or both, of one of the giant holding companies that own most of the agencies belonging to the Four A's. This year, early versions of the program listed an address that was to have been given last Thursday by Philippe Wahl, chief executive at Havas, which owns agencies like Euro RSCG Worldwide.
 Alas, last month the chairman of Havas, Vincent Bollore, decided to replace Mr. Wahl with Fernando Rodes, the vice chairman. Mr. Rodes was unable to be at the conference, so the program for Thursday was rearranged. The organizers may ask Michael I. Roth, chairman and chief executive at Interpublic, to take the slot at the conference next year.

AND THE WINNER WAS -- The O'Toole Awards for Creative Excellence in 2005 were presented during the general session on Friday.
 For general excellence, Crispin Porter & Bogusky in Miami won for large agencies, for the second year in a row. Carmichael Lynch in Minneapolis, part of Interpublic, won for midsize agencies. Gabriel deBroot Bendt in Minneapolis won for small agencies.
 The O'Toole Award for multicultural advertising went to Lapiz in Chicago, part of the Leo Burnett unit of Publicis. The awards for public service advertising went to two Minneapolis agencies, Clarity Coverdale Fury for print, and Martin/Williams, part of Omnicom, for broadcast.
 That four of the six winners are based in Minneapolis did not escape comment.
 ''It's so cold, there's nothing else to do there but advertising,'' said Ron Berger, the 2004-6 chairman of the association, who presented the awards.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (67%) Advertising and Marketing; Conventions and Conferences

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (81%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (70%); MDC PARTNERS INC (57%); KIRSHENBAUM BOND & PARTNERS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%) American Assn of Advertising Agencies

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (81%); MDZ.A (TSX) (57%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (81%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (81%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%)

PERSON: ALEC BALDWIN (72%); JULIA ROBERTS (51%) Stuart Elliot

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006



243 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1654 words

HEADLINE: Arab Democracy, a U.S. Goal, Falters

BYLINE: By HASSAN M. FATTAH; Reporting for this article was contributed by Abeer Allam and Michael Slackman from Cairo, Suha Maayeh from Amman, Jordan, and Steven R. Weisman from Washington.

DATELINE: DUBAI, United Arab Emirates, April 9 

 BODY:
Steps toward democracy in the Arab world, a crucial American goal that just months ago was cause for optimism -- with elections held in Iraq, Egypt and the Palestinian areas -- are slowing, blocked by legal maneuvers and official changes of heart throughout the Middle East.
 Analysts and officials say the political rise of Islamists, the chaos in Iraq, the newfound Shiite power in Iraq with its implication for growing Iranian influence, and the sense among some rulers that they can wait out the end of the Bush administration have put the brakes on democratization.
''It feels like everything is going back to the bad old days, as if we never went through any changes at all,'' said Sulaiman al-Hattlan, editor in chief of Forbes Arabia and a prominent Saudi columnist and advocate. ''Everyone is convinced now that there was no serious or genuine belief in change from the governments. It was just a reaction to pressure by the international media and the U.S.''
 In Egypt, the government of President Hosni Mubarak, which allowed a contested presidential election last year, has delayed municipal elections by two years after the Muslim Brotherhood made big gains in parliamentary elections late last year, despite the government's violent efforts to stop the group's supporters. 
 In Jordan, where King Abdullah II has made political change and democratization mandates, proponents see their hand weakened, with a document advocating change put on the back burner. Parliamentary elections in Qatar were postponed again, to 2007, while advocacy groups say that laws regulating the emergence of nongovernmental organizations have stymied their development. 
 In Yemen, the government has cracked down on the news media ahead of presidential elections this year, intimidating journalists who had been considered overcritical of the government. 
 In Saudi Arabia, King Abdullah has refused calls that the country's consultative council be elected, while the arrest last month of Muhsin al-Awaji, a government critic, raised questions about how far the country's newfound openness would go. And in Syria, promises for reforms have been followed by a harsh crackdown on the opposition.
 Administration officials do not deny that there have been setbacks in the promotion of democracy in the Middle East, but say that recent negative trends do not discredit their approach.
 ''Democratic development isn't always linear,'' said a senior State Department official, insisting on anonymity in commenting for this article. ''It's a process that takes time, is evolutionary and requires strong consistent support, which is what our policy is all about.''
 Arab nations in the Middle East are largely led by monarchies and authoritarian governments, many of which have been unable to keep up with explosive population growth and development needs.
 After the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks, the Bush administration made democratization of the Middle East a strategic goal, to answer the extremism that had taken root in many parts of the region. Arab governments, prodded also by emboldened opposition movements, made some moves toward democracy. But Arab rulers now emphasize that change is a slow process, or simply focus on economic changes instead. With many economies booming, especially in the oil-rich Persian Gulf, governments are in no hurry to bring about change. At last month's meeting of Arab League leaders, there was no mention of an Arab reform program launched in Tunis in 2004.
 The slowdown comes at a critical time for the Bush administration, which has been increasingly seen as weakened both at home and abroad by its occupation of Iraq. Many Arab leaders appear to be betting that the American public is losing its appetite for major interventions, giving them a freer hand.
 ''Iraq has allowed people to say, 'Forget the American style of reform,' '' said Taher al-Adwan, editor in chief of the Amman-based newspaper Al-Arab Al-Yawm. ''The Americans are not able to present anything to the reformers to encourage them.''
 In Egypt -- one of the United States' closest allies in the Middle East, receiving about $2 billion a year in military and financial aid -- President Mubarak promised during his re-election campaign last summer to further amend the Constitution and allow room for other political parties to grow. But so far there has been virtually no movement on either front. 
 The government continues to restrict the creation of opposition parties, and judges who questioned the integrity of the recent parliamentary elections have become the focus of criminal investigations.
 In December, when an Egyptian court sentenced the political opposition leader Ayman Nour to five years in prison on charges that had been widely viewed as politically motivated, Washington responded harshly, calling for his release. But Washington expressed only mild disapproval over the February announcement of the delay of municipal elections.
 The delay is widely seen as an effort to preserve the monopoly on power held by Egypt's National Democratic Party following the success of the Muslim Brotherhood at the polls. It is also considered an effort to halt the Brotherhood's promotion of an independent candidate for president in 2011.
 ''America had a problem with violent Islamic groups because of a lack of democracy in the region, but when people choose nonviolent Islamic groups, they don't want to deal with it,'' said Essam el-Erian, a senior member and spokesman for the Brotherhood. ''Even if Islamic groups win elections and have poor relations with the U.S., they should at least appreciate that they will not be violent.'' 
 In Bahrain, where sectarian tensions between the majority Shiite population and the Sunni-dominated government prevail, a flurry of official maneuvers apparently intended to reduce the Shiite vote has preceded the municipal and parliamentary elections expected this year.
 Bahrain, a tiny nation of 700,000, is often held up as a model of reform and democratization. Opposition figures say that elections, if they happen this year, will be a symbol of backtracking, not of a growing democracy. But government officials accuse the opposition of fanning sectarian tensions for political gain and point to the expected participation of opposition groups as a sign that conditions are improving.
 ''The question many people are asking is this: did reform slow down, or did it just never happen?'' said Toby Craig Jones, who recently worked as a Persian Gulf analyst with the International Crisis Group, in independent research and advocacy organization. ''This was never an example of real reform, it's an example of controlled reform.''
 Nabeel Rajab, vice president of the Bahrain Center for Human Rights, which was shut down by the government in 2004, said: ''The Americans seem to think this is enough. They will only get involved when things get very bad. We enjoyed the honeymoon, but now it's over.''
 When King Abdullah of Jordan entrusted a group of 26 prominent Jordanians to map out a reform agenda for his kingdom in February 2005, the stated objective was a plan for comprehensive reform and democratization efforts. But when the group presented the 2,500-page document to the king more than nine tumultuous months later, not long after the multiple suicide bombings at Amman hotels, it made little impact.
 ''For some reason, it was not publicized, it was not advertised, and it's got into the hands of very fewpeople,'' said Taher al-Masri, a member of the drafting committee and, for a brief time, prime minister of Jordan. ''We went, we took a picture, and that was it,'' he said of the ceremony.
 The effort toward what was called the National Agenda set off a contentious battle between Jordan's elite Western-educated reformers, who were accused of debating issues behind closed doors, and entrenched forces in the Parliament and Senate, who sought to have greater say in the program.
 Advocates like Marwan Muasher and others were quickly tainted, perceived as serving an American agenda rather than seeking reform. 
 Jordan's elected Parliament sought to stymie any laws presented out of the effort, dismissing them as an effort aimed at appeasing the West, while the Senate, appointed by the king and comprising predominantly old-guard powers, also worked to preserve its hold.
 Meanwhile, the changes in government only served to interrupt the reform dialogue. The king, who appoints the prime minister, went through three governments last year. The latest government of Prime Minister Maarouf al-Bakheet appointed shortly after the agenda was presented, has billed itself as a reform government.
 Appointed shortly after the Nov. 9 multiple suicide bombings in Amman, the government was specifically charged with pursuing the National Agenda, its officials said. Some in the government accuse the National Agenda authors of sour grapes, continuing a practice of former government officials insulting current ones.
 ''There's no contradiction between the government plan and the National Agenda,'' said Sabri Rbeihat, minister of political development and parliamentary affairs. ''But it's a long-term plan, while the government platform is annual.'' 
 The government has drafted numerous laws that will change various sectors of government. But for many who took part in drafting the National Agenda, the sense that it has been placed in the background suggested that the new government was pursuing its own agenda.
 ''For some reason, the system seems to cave in to the first signs of resistance, then it follows with policies of appeasement, and the reformers are abandoned,'' said Mustafa Hamarneh, a committee member and director of the Center for Strategic Studies in Jordan. ''The national agenda was going to be a road map to reform in the country, but it suddenly disappeared off the radar screen. It is no longer part of the official discourse.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: King Hamad's image towered over a road in Bahrain, where the government has been accused of trying to reduce the Shiite vote in elections. (Photo by James Hill for The New York Times)(pg. A10)
ELECTIONS DELAYED -- After opposition gains in Parliament, the government of President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt delayed local elections.
A STALLED AGENDA -- King Abdullah II of Jordan pledged to make reforms, but a document called the National Agenda has made little headway.
 POLITICAL CONTROL -- In Syria, President Bashar al-Assad has presided over a crackdown on the opposition, despite promises of change. (Photographs by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times)(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (79%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); POLITICS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); TRENDS (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); WRITERS (74%); JOURNALISM (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); TERRORISM (60%); CITIES (52%) United States International Relations; Freedom and Human Rights; Elections; Politics and Government; Freedom of the Press; Legislatures and Parliaments; Freedom of Speech and Expression; Islam

COMPANY: FORBES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Muslim Brotherhood

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (90%); ABDULLAH BIN ABDUL AZIZ (79%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%) Hassan Fattah; George W (Pres) Bush; Hosni (Pres) Mubarak; King of Jordan Abdullah Ii; Abdullah (King of Saudi Arabia)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) MIDDLE EAST (96%); EGYPT (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); JORDAN (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); YEMEN (92%); SYRIA (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); BAHRAIN (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); QATAR (79%) Middle East; Egypt; Jordan; Middle East; Yemen; Saudi Arabia; Syria; Iraq; Iran; Bahrain; Middle East

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006



244 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: How to Lose the Brain Race

BYLINE: By Steven Clemons and Michael Lind. 
Steven Clemons is the director of the American Strategy Program at the New America Foundation. Michael Lind is a senior fellow there.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
IS the United States importing too many immigrant physicists and not enough immigrant farm workers? You might think so, to judge from two provisions that Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, added to the comprehensive immigration reform package that just fell apart in the Senate. Senator Feinstein insisted that the bill call for some fees for foreign students applying to study at American colleges and universities to be doubled, and also demanded that agribusiness get the right to 1.5 million low-wage foreign guest workers over five years. Combined, the two proposals sent a message to the rest of the world: send us your brawn, not your brains.
 Whether Senator Feinstein's amendments will resurface in any reconstituted legislation on immigration reform remains unclear. But her priorities reflect in many ways those of Congress as a whole. Congress seems to believe that while the United States must be protected from an invasion of educated, bright and ambitious foreign college students, scientists, engineers and entrepreneurs, we can never have too many low-wage fruit-pickers and dishwashers. 
In making immigration laws, Congress caters to cheap-labor industries like agribusiness and sweatshop manufacturing while shortchanging the high-tech, high-wage industries on which the future of the American economy depends. Witness the Senate bill's provision to admit 400,000 temporary workers a year, or roughly four million a decade, in addition to the 12 million mostly low-wage illegal immigrants already here, many of whose status would be legalized. Few if any of those guest workers would go to universities, corporate campuses or innovation clusters like Silicon Valley. They would head straight to restaurants, hotels and plantation-like farms.
 While the United States perversely tries to corner the market in uneducated hotel maids and tomato harvesters, other industrial democracies are reshaping their immigration policies to invite the skilled immigrants that we turn away. Britain is following Australia and Canada in adopting a points system that gives higher scores to skilled immigrants with advanced education and proficiency in English. British, Canadian, German and even French universities are overflowing in undergraduate and graduate enrollment as they absorb the foreign talent that America is repelling.
 Whereas Senator Feinstein fears that foreigners are snatching places at American universities from deserving American students, the fact is that our universities are weakened when fewer talented international students enter their programs.
 In recent years, skilled immigration to the United States has been accommodated chiefly by the H-1B visa program. But like all guest-worker programs, the H-1B program pits American workers against foreign workers lacking full legal and political rights. Because H-1B workers depend on employer sponsorship to remain in this country, unscrupulous employers can blackmail them into working longer hours for lower pay than American workers. Skilled workers admitted under a points system, by contrast, would be able to quit their employers in the United States and find new ones at will without risk of deportation.
 Will admitting more immigrants drive down the wages of American workers? That may be true in unskilled jobs, since there is a fixed number of bedpans to be emptied and restaurant meals to be cooked in the United States. 
 But it isn't necessarily true for skilled workers, at least not in the long run. That's because more talent means more innovation and opportunities for all, immigrant and native alike. The growth economist Paul Romer has spoken of the prospector theory of human capital. The more prospectors there are, the more likely it is that some will find gold. As the history of Silicon Valley and other tech centers proves, brain work migrates to where the brain workers are. It's a kind of Field of Dreams in reverse: You will build it, if they come. 
 Even if a skill-based immigration system did reduce incomes for the elite, that would not be the end of the world. For a generation, college-educated Americans have enjoyed a seller's market in professional services and a buyer's market in the labor of landscapers and nannies. If skilled immigration were increased while unskilled immigration were reduced, the wages of janitors would go up while the salaries and fees of professionals would fall, creating a broader middle class and a more equal society.
 The United States can always use another Albert Einstein or Alexander Graham Bell. But with the vast pool of poorly paid, ill-educated laborers already within our borders, we do not need a third of a million new ones a year.
 What the space race was to the cold war, the ''brain race'' is to today's peaceful global economic competition. The comprehensive immigration reform America needs is one that slashes unskilled immigration and creates a skill-rewarding points system modeled on those of Australia, Britain and Canada. In encouraging skilled labor, Congress for a change might perform some of its own.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); FARM LABOR (91%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); AGRICULTURE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); SWEATSHOPS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); REFUGEES (78%); PHYSICS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (63%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (63%); RESTAURANTS (63%) Immigration and Refugees; Law and Legislation; Foreign Workers; Immigration and Refugees

PERSON: DIANNE FEINSTEIN (90%) Steven C Clemons; Michael Lind

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006



245 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Distress More Likely In New York, Study Finds

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
Nearly 1 in 7 adults in New York City described their mental health last year as being frequently ''not good,'' compared with 1 in 10 adults in a comparable national survey, according to data being released today by the City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene.
 The findings, from the city's community health survey, a telephone poll of 10,000 randomly selected adults conducted each year since 2002, confirm what many New Yorkers suspect -- that life in the nation's most populous city can be difficult and lonely. 
Thirteen percent of adults who answered the city's survey last year reported that their mental health was ''not good'' on 14 or more days of the month, compared with 10 percent in a similar national survey that measured ''frequent mental distress,'' like stress, depression or other emotional problems. The data will be presented today in a conference at Hunter College organized by Dr. Neal L. Cohen, a former city health commissioner.
 Dr. Lloyd I. Sederer, the executive deputy commissioner for mental hygiene at the health department, said he believed that the higher rate of ''frequent mental distress'' reported by city residents was statistically significant, although the precise reasons were not clear. ''I wish we knew, in a way that we could say with confidence, why that difference is,'' he said. 
 The survey also contains a separate set of questions, which asked adults whether in the past month they had felt hopeless, nervous, worthless or restless; whether they had felt so sad that nothing could cheer them up; and whether they had felt that ''everything was an effort.'' Those questions, developed by Ronald C. Kessler, a Harvard Medical School professor, measure ''nonspecific psychological distress.''
 The department, in a paper that is also being presented today at Hunter College, found that rates of such psychological distress were higher in 2003 among women; Hispanics; people who were divorced, widowed or separated; and people who were poor, ill or chronically unemployed. Only 40 percent of people who reported such distress in 2003 had received counseling or medication for mental illness within the past year. 
 Cited as the most common barriers to mental health treatment were cost (41 percent); not wanting or needing help (11 percent); shame, fear and other beliefs about mental illness (10 percent); procrastination and logistical barriers (each 8 percent); and lack of access to care and negative perceptions of treatment (each 6 percent). The remaining 10 percent cited other reasons.
 ''You put that all together and it adds up to a major public health problem,'' Dr. Sederer said. ''These are common disorders, they're highly prevalent, they are disabling, they cause great human suffering, and they interfere with functioning.'' Mental illness increases the risk of dying from untreated medical conditions, like diabetes or high blood pressure, and from suicide, he said.
 In 2004, the city began urging doctors to use a simple questionnaire to screen for depression. This month, the city will bolster that effort with an advertising campaign urging New Yorkers to see a primary-care doctor if they experience signs of depression.
 The study of the 2003 data will be published in the May issue of The Journal of Urban Health. The lead author is Katharine H. McVeigh, a psychiatric epidemiologist for the city. 
 Bonnie D. Kerker, the city's assistant health commissioner for epidemiology services, said the two measures of distress in the survey were only an approximation of the true prevalence of mental disorders. ''There are limitations to self-reported data, although we think it's a fairly good estimate of what's going on in New York, especially over time,'' she said.
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, in their Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System, an annual national survey, uses the same questions the city uses to measure ''frequent mental distress,'' but does not use the Kessler questions.
 The city's Department of Health and its Department of Mental Health, Mental Retardation and Alcoholism Services were merged in July 2002, and a key theme of today's conference will be how to better integrate mental health into the regular health care system.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (86%); DEPRESSION (78%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (78%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); STATISTICS (77%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%) Mental Health and Disorders

ORGANIZATION: Health and Mental Hygiene Department (NYC)

PERSON: Sewell Chan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006



246 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Metro Matters; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Adventures In the City Of Dreams

BYLINE: By JOYCE PURNICK. 
E-mail: purnick@nytimes.com

 BODY:
NOT too long ago, a colleague transferring to the city from a foreign assignment said he looked forward to finally figuring out how New York works. Optimistic fellow. 
 I've been writing Metro Matters for years and I still haven't figured out how or why New York City works.
Because it does work, when logically a city of 8.2 million people from everywhere should be dysfunctional. 
 New York thrives on imagination and reinvention. Ever-changing, it is more an idea than a place, a fantasy that has developed the veneer of reality because we New Yorkers believe in the fairy tale. The ultimate urban myth.
 A pack of newspapers and radio and TV stations cover our mayor as if every word he utters has earthshaking importance, which it does not. But assuming that it does knits New Yorkers together, gives us something in common -- that outrageous or boring or flaky character in City Hall.
 Our wondrous subway system theoretically connects us, but even though it jams us against each other all the time, we don't connect much. We just want to think we do, which is grand.
 New York City is, of course, a jigsaw of ethnic and racial enclaves, of the rich, the poor and the in-between, of the struggling immigrant and the billionaire businessman and the diligent striver. We occupy our own worlds and know that other worlds live next door -- but few of us drop by. 
 How many Upper West Siders know that a population of Mexicans is growing quickly on Staten Island, drawn to the red-state (for now) borough to tend lawns? 
 How many young people from neighborhoods just a few miles away from Times Square have never seen it?
 Friends who live in Midtown Manhattan recently confessed that they always insist on seeing the outskirts of any city they visit. But they've never been to Flushing.
 To qualify for a MetroCard, New Yorkers should have to take the Staten Island ferry round-trip once a year to look over at the Statue of Liberty, and ride the No. 7 line through startlingly polyglot Queens. Getting off at a few stops to look around wouldn't be a bad idea, either. 
 MAYBE our separateness together is what keeps us going. We clash furiously every now and again, then calm down because we have to.
 New York keeps going through bad times, attacks, injustices, fiscal woes and bad leadership -- inevitably followed by better leadership. The place is admirably resilient and demanding. New Yorkers kvetch -- an admirable survival technique. 
 So is self-interest. The city always was, and still is, mostly about money. Its economic, political and journalistic establishments demand a semblance of stability and restore it when imbalance threatens the bottom line. Then the politicians have to respond. 
 Which brings me to a few observations about politics.
 Those elected officials who would like journalists to go away would expire of neglect if they got their wish.
 Some politicians do indeed care about the public, but most first care about their own survival. They need frequent, even rude, reminders about who employs whom.
 Dishonest elected officials who manipulate judgeships and misspend the public's money truly believe they are doing nothing wrong, because in their world, they aren't -- which is why journalists must forever invade that world.
 Advocates for admirable causes are not immune to the hyperbole and distortion we associate with politicians. As effective kvetchers, they are essential -- just not always right.
 Follow the money. Always follow the money.
 If all this has been sounding existential, and readers are wondering what's up, it is this: I have decided to move on from this column after nearly 10 years to face new writing challenges at The Times, and my editors have graciously granted my wish. 
 I think it is essential for journalists to keep reinventing themselves, just as New York City does.
 To fellow columnists, one suggestion: Deliver a swift (nonviolent) kick from me to those who say, ''Oh, so you write twice a week? Have you ever considered working full time?''
 To readers: Thank you for the privilege of letting me write about the city that I love, which I do even though it exists only because we all think it does. Keep on thinking that, New York, and it will ever be so. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); MAYORS (74%); IMMIGRATION (73%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (69%); FERRIES (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (54%) Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: New York Times

PERSON: Joyce Purnick

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006



247 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: Town Sees Plans for Nuclear Plant as Boon, Not Threat 

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN

DATELINE: GAFFNEY, S.C. 

 BODY:
Bill Whelchel, working the main chair at Elmore's Barber Shop on Limestone Street, paused the clippers above his customer's half-sculptured crew cut to consider the question of atomic energy.
 ''I'm not worried at all about putting in a new nuclear power plant,'' said Mr. Whelchel, 76. ''We're used to nuclear power around here. Plus, it'll create jobs, and one thing I've learned is that working people are happy people.''
 More than a quarter century after the accident at Three Mile Island and two decades after Chernobyl, America's utilities stand at the early edge of what promises to be the first large-scale wave of nuclear plant construction since the 1980's.
 And the energy companies are finding -- especially in the small, struggling Southeastern towns like Gaffney where most of the plants are planned -- that memories of those tragedies have faded and that local governments and residents, eager for jobs and tax revenues to replace vanished industries, are embracing them with enthusiasm. 
 Indeed, none of Mr. Whelchel's half-dozen customers said they had any problem whatsoever with the idea of a nuclear facility going up down the road.
 ''I can't remember hearing a single negative comment from any local resident,'' Cody Sossamon, publisher of The Gaffney Ledger, said as he sat in his office out near the highway.
 Driven partly by federal Department of Energy projections that demand for electrical power will increase 50 percent by 2025, and by recent federal legislation offering a more streamlined application process and financial incentives for new nuclear facilities, many utilities are eager to get back into the atomic business.
 ''We initially were looking at 14 communities in the Southeast, and then we narrowed that down to four,'' said Henry B. Barron Jr., chief nuclear officer for Duke Power, which announced last month that it would apply to build its first new nuclear plant in three decades just outside Gaffney. ''I found no single individual who had any concerns about the plant. The few who did have concerns were worried about increased traffic on the roads during construction.''
 In a March report, Fitch Ratings, a global financial research company, said: ''It is no longer a matter of debate whether there will be new nuclear plants in the industry's future. Now, the discussion has shifted to predictions of how many, where and when.''
 How many remains to be seen. Nine utilities have said they will apply to build as many as 19 new nuclear units, but that does not mean all of them will be built.
 As to where, the list includes every state south of Maryland that touches either the Atlantic Ocean or the Gulf of Mexico, except Texas, and one facility in central Illinois. And the sites tend to be in rural counties whose hard-pressed small towns -- like Gaffney, population 13,000 -- clutch at the chance for new jobs and tax revenue.
 ''The timeline that Duke gave us was that the application process would take three to five years,'' said James P. Inman, executive director of the Cherokee County Development Board, which led the local drive to attract the new plant. ''Then they'd build the first unit, and it would go online around 2015. At least, that's the least optimistic projection. We think it could happen as early as 2012.''
 Wanting the plant was a no-brainer for Gaffney, Mr. Inman said.
 Some 1,500 new jobs are expected in the construction phase of the $4 billion to $6 billion facility, and then running the plant will take 1,000 employees. In addition, the plant is to pay $8.5 million in annual taxes, to be split between the county and the state. 
 ''You add to that the new home construction and the new businesses and it looks to be a really good things for this community and this county,'' Mr. Sossamon said.
 If residents of the communities do seem eager for the plants, it is not entirely unanimous. The Blue Ridge Environmental Defense League, based in North Carolina, said this month that it intended to oppose construction of the plant outside Gaffney.
 To attract Duke, county officials agreed to a package of financial incentives, pretty much the same combination of tax breaks offered by the other counties in North and South Carolina that were finalists for the plant. But Gaffney also promised to establish new science, math and engineering courses in local schools to make sure Duke finds people to hire if the plant opens.
 ''We're looking at the kids who are in fifth grade,'' Mr. Inman said. ''Those are the ones who need to start getting ready now for the jobs that are coming. That way they won't have to move away to find work if they don't want to.''
 Founded in 1803 at the intersection of two Indian trails and named for the first man to open a store here, Gaffney has seen better days. For decades, textile mills dominated the town, employing thousands of local residents. 
 But now all of the big old mills have closed. From 1999 to 2003 alone, 2,500 textile employees lost their jobs. A few smaller companies have come in to build newer and smaller mills, but now the biggest employer is a Stouffer's frozen food plant on the outskirts of town.
 Gaffney's downtown today is a grid of small gift shops, bank branches, pawnshops and dozens of empty storefronts. On a recent weekday morning, Elmore's Barber Shop had the biggest crowd. The only crane rising above downtown was in the process of tearing down the last of the big textile mills.
 For those from outside the area, Gaffney is probably best known for the annual South Carolina Peach Festival, for the huge water tower beside Interstate 85 in the shape of a giant peach and for the sprawling outlet mall -- roughly midway between Charlotte, N.C., and Spartanburg, S.C. -- that locals call the ''yellow mall,'' for its egg yolk color.
 The prospective plant site is about a half-hour southeast of town, on 2,000 sloping acres beside the Broad River that Duke had previously considered for a nuclear plant, 30 years ago, before declining demand and increasing public anxiety about nuclear power caused them to drop the plan. The land had since passed into the hands of another utility, the Southern Company, which will be Duke's partner in the new facility.
 L. Hoke Parris, who retired from a local brick-making factory before beginning a political career that has seen him become chairman of the Cherokee County Council, said he was not surprised that the town and its residents had no problem welcoming atomic energy into their community.
 ''The financial impact here will be phenomenal,'' Mr. Parris said. ''Right now, downtown's pretty much dead. Pretty much all we've got is Wal-Mart and the yellow mall.''
 Besides, he said, there have been nuclear facilities around the region for decades, and he thinks residents in the Carolinas have gotten used to them.
 ''I think people are just pretty much comfortable with nuclear power in this part of the country,'' Mr. Parris said. ''We're getting farther away from Chernobyl and Three Mile Island.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: An unfinished containment building from Duke Power's previous plan to build a nuclear plant near Gaffney, S.C., 30 years ago. Left, Bill Whelchel, a barber, supports the current plans to build a nuclear facility on the old site. (Photographs by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)Map of South Carolina highlighting Gaffney, proposed nuclear site.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (92%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (92%); POWER PLANTS (92%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); BARBER SHOPS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (89%); LEGISLATION (79%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (78%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (68%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (65%); BANKING & FINANCE (63%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (57%) Electric Light and Power; Atomic Energy; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry ; Accidents and Safety; Electric Light and Power

COMPANY: DUKE ENERGY CORP (52%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (51%)

TICKER: DUK (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (52%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%)

PERSON: Rick Lyman

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (91%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); UKRAINE (76%) Gaffney (SC); Three Mile Island (Pa)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006



248 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: Across the U.S., Protests for Immigrants Draw Thousands

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN; Reporting for this article was contributed by Laura Griffin in Dallas; Judy Sheppard in Birmingham, Ala.; Corey Taule in Boise, Idaho; Elisa Williams in Salem, Ore.; and Andrea Zarate in Miami.

 BODY:
Demonstrators flying banners of immigration reform marched in cities across the nation yesterday to demand citizenship and a share of the American dream for millions of illegal immigrants who have run a gantlet of closed borders, broken families, snake-eyed smugglers and economic exploitation.
 Singing, chanting and waving placards and American flags, a sea of demonstrators -- police estimates ran as high as 500,000 -- marched in downtown Dallas in the largest of the protests. Some 20,000 rallied in San Diego, 7,000 in Miami, and 4,000 each in Birmingham, Ala., and Boise, Idaho.
 Thousands more gathered in Salem, Ore., and other cities in peaceful, forceful displays of support for the cause of immigrants. 
 ''It's a good feeling that we are finally standing up for ourselves,'' Robert Martinez said at the rally in Dallas. 
 ''For years, we never say nothing,'' said Mr. Martinez, who crossed the Rio Grande illegally 22 years ago and eventually became an American citizen. ''We just work hard, follow the rules and pay taxes. And they try to make these laws. It's time people knew how we felt.''
 While yesterday's rallies were an impressive extension of the growing immigrant protests that have spread across the country in recent weeks, organizers said they were only a tuneup for nationwide demonstrations today, billed as a National Day of Action for Immigrant Justice. Events in more than 120 cities are expected to draw more than two million people.
 On a gentle spring Sunday basted by golden sunshine and blue skies, crowds gathered in ebullient moods, spreading over downtown streets and parks in cities large and small. The demonstrators were mostly Hispanic, but they included people of Asian, European and African backgrounds.
 Most wore white shirts to symbolize peace. Many carried American flags or the flags of Mexico and other countries of Central and South America and Asia. At the rally in Dallas, ''God Bless America'' and ''This Land Is Your Land'' blared on loudspeakers, as well as the music of Mexico, as marchers chanted ''Si, se puede'' (''Yes, we can'') and ''U.S.A., all the way.''
 ''We never anticipated it getting this big,'' said Lt. Rick Watson, a spokesman for the Dallas police. ''The estimates were anywhere from 20,000 to 200,000, and they kept coming and coming.'' Many businesses in Dallas closed for the day, some churches held services early to accommodate marchers, and the Dallas Symphony canceled an afternoon performance.
 The Dallas protesters were young and old. Some were families pushing baby strollers. Some walked with canes, others rolled along in wheelchairs. There were members of unions, churches, civil rights organizations and business groups, but many were strangers to one another. Some spoke passionately about their desire to be Americans, to vote and to hold a job without fear.
 ''We are here to support American values,'' said Juan Gomez, 40, who arrived in Dallas from Peru 10 years ago and is vice president of United Voices for Immigrants and a teacher of English to immigrant adults. ''America was built with immigrants.''
 ''We live the values of this country,'' he said. 
 Passions were similar in Birmingham. ''This is holy ground,'' the Rev. Derrill Wilson of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference told people gathered at Kelly Ingram Park, where the police turned fire hoses on black children during the civil rights protests in 1963. ''Here you stand up for yourselves. Stand up for everyone. And most of all, stand up for your children.''
 Out in the crowd, many spoke about paths to citizenship, rights and protections in the workplace. But Mario Limas Hernandez, a mechanic, talked of another right -- to be with his family. He said that although he was an American citizen, his wife was not; she and their children had been sent home to Mexico.
 ''One of the rights of citizenship is that you get to live with your close family,'' he said. 
 The crowds at many of the protests also cheered speakers who denounced a system that has driven more than 11 million illegal immigrants into shadowy lives of subterfuge, and who called for a new deal that would extend basic rights to them and a chance of eventual citizenship. Organizers said the protests would not stop until Congress passed laws to improve their lives.
 Much of the anger yesterday and at the protests in recent weeks was directed at a bill passed by the House of Representatives last December. It would have authorized a 700-mile fence along the Mexican border; raised the crime of illegal immigration to a felony; and criminalized giving assistance, including food and water, to illegal immigrants.
 One of the smaller protests yesterday was a gathering of 700 people in Massapequa Park, N.Y., outside the office of Representative Peter T. King, a Republican who was a co-sponsor of the House bill. Mr. King was not there, but a small band of his supporters were. ''We pay our taxes,'' one of their placards declared. 
 A campaign in Congress to enact the most sweeping immigration changes in two decades reached a bipartisan compromise last week that Democrats and Republicans hailed as a breakthrough. 
 The Senate bill would open doors to citizenship for most illegal immigrants if they paid fines and learned English. It would also create a guest worker program for 325,000 people a year to meet the needs of business, and would tighten border security to satisfy conservatives.
 But the agreement was derailed on Friday by feuding over amendments and other issues, casting its future in doubt as lawmakers recessed for two weeks. Senator Arlen Specter, a Pennsylvania Republican and the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, pledged in an interview on ''Fox News Sunday'' to have the measure ready for debate when Congress resumes.
 Both Democratic and Republican leaders have sought to court the Hispanic vote. While Hispanics cast just 6 percent of the ballots in the 2004 election, birth rates and other factors suggest a much higher proportion in future elections. The nation's 42 million Hispanics account for about one in seven people in this country, and for about half of the recent growth in population. 
 In San Diego, which is near Tijuana, Mexico, and is the nation's busiest border crossing, about 20,000 demonstrators gathered at Balboa Park and marched downtown to a rally. Many carried signs proclaiming ''We are Americans'' and ''We march today, we vote tomorrow.''
 American flags predominated in the crowd. Advocates of the protests there and elsewhere have recently voiced concerns that the presence of many Mexican flags might set off a backlash, and organizers said they scrambled to find as many American flags as possible.
 In Miami, where protesters gathered against a backdrop of skyscrapers, Maria Rodriguez, 39, said: ''This is the people bringing the flags. It seems that they heard the message: American people want flags. We'll, let's give them flags! It's really spontaneous. It's not about the flag. It's about people getting a chance.''
 Dressed in an Uncle Sam costume in the Miami crowd, Oribe Pineiro, 32, who arrived from Uruguay six years ago, said he had never achieved legal status here and was still waiting to apply for a work permit. He also said he was alone in this country, caught in a trap, while his family was in Uruguay.
 ''My mother is 74 years old,'' he said, ''and I don't know when I will be able to see her again because I can't leave the country. I am stuck in a golden cage.''
 Orlando Fernandez, 51, who arrived in Miami 26 years ago on the Mariel boat lift and works for a nonprofit organization that helps the poor, said there was hope for immigration legislation.
 ''This is a year of elections, and politicians want to gain popularity with this problem,'' he said, adding, ''We are all immigrants here, except for the American Indians.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: From left, marchers in Miami, people heading to a vigil in Milwaukee and a protester at the Dallas rally. (Photo by Larry W. Smith for The New York Times)
(Photo by Darren Hauck for The New York Times)
(Photo by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times)
 A crowd estimated by the police at 500,000 marched yesterday in downtown Dallas. Rallies are scheduled again today across the country. (Photo by Smiley N. Pool/Dallas Morning News, via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CITIZENSHIP (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); RIOTS (79%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SMUGGLING (73%); RELIGION (66%) Immigration and Refugees; Demonstrations and Riots; Illegal Immigrants; Citizenship; Law and Legislation; Immigration and Refugees

PERSON: Robert D Mcfadden

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (94%); BOISE, ID, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (92%); SALEM, OR, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%); IDAHO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (57%) Dallas (Tex); San Diego (Calif); Birmingham (Ala); Boise (Idaho); United States

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006



249 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; HOCKEY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Jagr Has Reasons to Rest, But Not Any Inclinations

BYLINE: By JASON DIAMOS

DATELINE: EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J., April 9 

 BODY:
Rangers right wing Jaromir Jagr increased his league-leading total to 119 points Sunday with an assist in the second period during a 3-2 loss to the Devils at Continental Arena. 
 He had already surpassed Jean Ratelle's team record of 109 points from 1971-72. And on Saturday, he eclipsed Adam Graves's franchise record with his 53rd goal of the season.
''As far as I'm concerned, he's the best hockey player that I've played against,'' goaltender Martin Brodeur said of Jagr after making 24 saves to lead the Devils to their seventh consecutive victory. 
 The 34-year-old Jagr has no more major club records in sight, which leaves Rangers Coach Tom Renney wondering whether he should attempt to give him some rest before the regular season ends April 18.
 But Jagr has shot down that notion.
 ''I don't need it,'' he said before the game. ''Hopefully I don't get injured, knock on wood. But what's the reason to be off of the game if you're going to skate extra in practice? There's no difference. I don't need a rest. I know my body very well. If I need a day off, I'm going to skip a morning skate. This is the experience I've gotten from 15 years in the league.''
 The Rangers (44-22-12) are comfortably in first place in the Atlantic Division with four games remaining in the regular season. They have clinched their first playoff berth since 1997.
 The Devils (42-27-9) moved to 2 points behind second-place Philadelphia in the division, overcoming a 2-1 deficit in the third period in front of a capacity crowd of 19,040. Scott Gomez and Brian Gionta scored 1 minute 39 seconds apart midway through the period for the Devils. 
 The Devils have four games remaining. Philadelphia, which is 5 points behind the Rangers in the standings, has five left. The Devils need only 1 point, or a loss in regulation by Atlanta, to qualify for the playoffs for the ninth consecutive season.
 Sunday night's game may have been a playoff preview. If the Rangers remain third in the Eastern Conference standings and the Devils stay in sixth place, they would meet in the first round of the postseason.
 Jagr and the Rangers survived a scary moment late in the second period. The 6-foot-3, 245-pound Jagr lost an edge to one of his skates and tumbled into one of the linesmen, Thor Nelson, along the boards.
 Jagr and Nelson crumpled to the ice and stayed there for several moments. Jagr was fine, but Nelson had to be helped from the ice. He was taken to a hospital with what appeared to be a leg injury.
 That is the sort of situation that Renney would like to avoid with Jagr. Against the Devils, the Rangers were already without five regulars because of injuries.
 Defenseman Tom Poti sat out with an upper body injury. Defenseman Darius Kasparaitis (groin) sat out for the ninth time in the last 10 games. Center Steve Rucchin (foot) missed his third consecutive game. Martin Rucinsky (finger) missed his eighth consecutive game. 
 Perhaps most important, the rookie goaltender Henrik Lundqvist (hip flexor) sat out his fourth consecutive game.
 ''It really, truly is day to day,'' Renney said of Lundqvist's situation. ''But we're being prudent because it's not 100 percent just yet. But if he had to play, he could play.''
 Renney added that he was confident that his injured players would be healthy for the playoffs. But one day after saying he would like to give Jagr a break, Renney backed down from that before Sunday's game.
 ''I think the big thing here is try to economize the minutes a little bit,'' Renney said. 
 There was hardly any economy to Jagr's minutes against the Devils. Jagr played 26 minutes 5 seconds, a high number for a forward in a game that did not go into overtime. He persuaded Renney to use him twice on the penalty kill during a five-minute power play for the Devils. (The Devils did not score.)
 ''You have to try it because it might happen in the playoffs,'' Jagr said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Brian Rafalski had an assist on the Devils' second goal. The Devils scored twice in the third period to win their seventh game in a row. (Photo by John Dunn for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINTER SPORTS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (87%) Hockey, Ice

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (94%); NEW YORK RANGERS (94%) New Jersey Devils; New York Rangers

PERSON: Jason Diamos

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006



250 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: Big-Spender Bush

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 In ''Bogus Bush Bashing'' (column, March 20), my old professor Paul Krugman criticizes my analyses of runaway domestic spending while calling the entire issue bogus. His rhetoric is hot, but he does not dispute a single fact or statistic in my work. 
 The federal government's own budget historical tables show nominal federal spending has leaped 45 percent since 2001, two-thirds of it unrelated to defense or homeland security. Non-security discretionary outlays are expanding 7.2 percent a year under President Bush, versus 4.2 percent under President Clinton.
 How about social spending?
 Since 2001, education spending has surged 137 percent, and health research and regulation spending has jumped 78 percent. Higher benefits and an expansion of Medicaid and food-stamp eligibility have pushed federal antipoverty spending above 3 percent of gross domestic product for the first time ever. 
 These government budget data expose conjecture about mean-spirited G.O.P. budget-cutters for the straw man that it is.

Brian Riedl
Washington, March 21, 2006

The writer is a fellow for federal budgetary affairs at the Heritage Foundation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); MEDICAID (76%); STATISTICS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); FOOD STAMPS (67%) 

ORGANIZATION: THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (55%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL CLINTON (58%) Brian Riedl; Paul Krugman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2006



251 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Hazardous To Your Health

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF. 
John Tierney is on vacation.

 BODY:
Our government needs to do much more to control potentially deadly substances -- plutonium, anthrax and high-fructose corn syrup.
 O.K., so Osama bin Laden isn't scheming to release corn syrup in the New York subways. But that's because he doesn't need to: Americans are guzzling it themselves -- every year, the average American drinks 56 gallons of soda.
 The major sweetener in pop is high-fructose corn syrup, which is also found in everything from ketchup to hot dog buns. Americans over the age of 2 get an average of 132 calories a day from high-fructose corn syrup. 
 Our fat is one of the most important public policy challenges we face. It kills 112,000 Americans a year, adds $75 billion to our health bill, drives up insurance costs and erodes our economic competitiveness.
 A few days ago, the latest national nutritional survey found that two-thirds of adults are overweight, and one-third of children are now overweight or on the brink of becoming so. 
 Earlier this year, a medical journal warned doctors that their injections are often ineffective, because American rumps are now so massive that a standard needle frequently cannot reach muscle through all the blubber.
 So hats off to the bipartisan group in Congress that last Thursday introduced legislation that would ban unhealthy foods like French fries and soft drinks from the nation's schools. That legislation, if passed, would save more American lives than anything else this Congress is considering.
 It makes no sense to enforce restrictions on lead paints while allowing children to ingest other debilitating substances, particularly sugary drinks like Coke, Snapple and Gatorade (parents often think that sports drinks are healthy, but their added sugars and calories are the last thing many kids need -- kids need sports, not sports drinks). This is also an antipoverty measure, for obesity is highly correlated to poverty and also compounds it.
 Sugary drinks now account for one-sixth of the calories we ingest. They are particularly problematic because there's evidence that calories in beverages don't give us feelings of fullness that we get from the same number of calories in food.
 Barry M. Popkin, a professor of nutrition at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, says that when kids snack on Cheetos, that at least spoils their appetites so that they eat less at meals. But when they chug Coke, they absorb as many calories -- and it doesn't spoil their appetites.
 ''If you're having dinner, and you have wine or water or soft drinks, it won't affect the amount of food you eat,'' Professor Popkin said. He added, ''Beverages are treated differently by our bodies from other classes of food.''
 It's more speculative, but high-fructose corn syrup may be a particular problem. Some studies indicate that the body metabolizes fructose differently from other sugars, so that the body is slower to get the message that it should stop eating. There's also a circumstantial case against high-fructose corn syrup, because it began to be used widely in the 1970's, just when American stomachs started ballooning.
 So what do we do?
 First, we should ban sugary drinks from schools. As George Bray, an obesity expert at Louisiana State University, notes, ''Those 'beverage contracts' that school districts have entered into to obtain money are equivalent to selling our children's health for school income.'' 
 Second, we should curb advertising of sugary drinks, especially when it is aimed at children.
 Third, we should impose a tax on sugary drinks -- 5 cents per fluid ounce. One of the most successful health measures this country has ever taken was the cigarette tax, and we should apply the same approach to beverages. All sweetened nondiet drinks would be targeted: soft drinks, iced tea, fruit punch, sports drinks and other concoctions like the 240-calorie Starbucks Caffe Mocha (not counting the whipped cream).
 What's the bottom line on these drinks? An extra 100 calories a day, all things being equal, adds about five pounds a year to one's weight. For America as a whole, that amounts to an extra 750,000 tons of fat per year -- so maybe it isn't the seas that are rising, but America that is sinking.
 Most of the debate on our national health crisis has focused on financing, and indeed we need universal health care. But it's equally important to change Americans' diet and exercise habits -- and the first step to do that is to fight our addiction to sugary drinks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (89%); SOFT DRINKS (89%); NUTRITION (89%); SPORTS DRINKS (89%); FUNCTIONAL FOODS (88%); CHILDREN (88%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); OBESITY (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); POLLS & SURVEYS (54%); LEAD PAINT (50%) Education and Schools; Soft Drinks ; Diet and Nutrition; Law and Legislation

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (72%) Nicholas D Kristof

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006



252 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Itineraries; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Heavy Traffic Heading South 

BYLINE: By MICHAEL T. LUONGO

 BODY:
Bill Colton does not need charts to prove that business travel to Latin America is rising. 
 Mr. Colton, the president of Global Telesourcing, a provider of customer service, sales and technical support to companies trying to reach Spanish-speaking consumers, says he has difficulty trying to book a hotel room or find a place for dinner in Buenos Aires. There are ''many five-star hotels I can rattle off my head, and anecdotally, for better or worse, it's harder to get a reservation,'' he said. ''The expensive restaurants are always full. That's got to be because of all the businesspeople down here on accounts.''
The Argentina Tourism Office, which does keep numbers, said that more than 250,000 Americans visited Buenos Aires last year, a 30 percent increase from 2004. About 24 percent of them were traveling primarily for business. 
 It does not hurt, said Mr. Colton, who travels to Buenos Aires with clients several times a year, that ''once they land, they feel that they're in Paris or Madrid.'' That is, he said, ''a very effective sales tool for us.''
 Nor is Argentina the only country in Latin America that has experienced a rise in business travel in the last couple of years. Mexico and Brazil have also had increases. 
 Much of the new interest has been driven by companies trying to take advantage of a better exchange rate with the dollar compared with Europe and other parts of the world. Argentina, paradoxically, gained business with the collapse of its peso in 2001 to a third of its former value. 
 ''Our company was born out of the peso crisis,'' Mr. Colton said. ''The reason we're in Argentina is that there are a lot of places that are cheap, and places that have a huge amount of infrastructure, and very few places where they intersect.''
 Other companies that do business in Latin America have also noticed the change. Getting a seat in business class ''to Sao Paulo and Rio, and Buenos Aires, which we've only been flying to a couple of months, is our biggest complaint,'' said Pete Garcia, vice president for Latin America at Continental Airlines. Not that he minds. ''If you're going to get any kind of complaint that's the kind to get.'' 
 Alejandro Poffo, a trade commissioner for Argentina based in New York, said American businesses like the fact that Argentina's time zone is close to that of the eastern United States. ''It's much easier to work with people in Argentina, than in India when they are sleeping,'' he said. 
 Mexico, whose economy has long been integrated with the United States, has had continued increases in business traffic. The North American Free Trade Agreement, which went into effect in 1994, solidified the trend. ''Before Nafta, we flew to 12 destinations in Mexico,'' Mr. Garcia of Continental said. ''We fly into 30 now, and we'll probably add a couple more this year.'' 
 He said that the new cities are ''not typical leisure markets'' but industrial cities like Saltillo, which he called ''the Detroit of Mexico,'' where General Motors and Ford have plants. These business cities ''require more frequent travel and tend to produce more revenue than the leisure market,'' he said.
 Patricia Capetillo, the meetings manager for the Mexico Conventions Bureau, said Mexico ranked as 27th in the world in the number of conventions in 2003, according to the International Congress and Convention Association. In just a year, it had climbed to 11th, according to data from the association.
 Ms. Capetillo said convention planners choose Mexico for the same reason as leisure travelers, looking for ''destinations that are colorful and have gastronomy'' but the impact of business travelers on the economy is greater. ''Business travelers spend seven times more money than leisure people,'' she said.
 When the left-leaning Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva was elected president of Brazil in 2002, many businesses were concerned that he would slow the economy. The contrary has happened, according to Eduardo Pupo, a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers, who says business travel has increased. ''It's been very busy, not only from the viewpoint of financial investors, but strategic investors. Nine out of 10 keep a close eye on Brazil,'' he said.
 This has fueled trips to Sao Paulo in particular. ''They need to be there to be close to what they are investing in,'' he said.
 Last November, TAM Brazilian Airlines began flying between New York and Sao Paulo four times a week and plans to expand to daily flights in June.
 Renato Scarcello, TAM sales manager for New York, said: ''All the flights are full'' in first and business class. ''That is one of the reasons we decided to start the daily flights.''
 According to data from the trade promotion department of the Brazilian consulate in New York, the number of new business visas issued from New York increased 19.7 percent last year from 2004. That came on top of a 33 percent increase from 2003 to 2004. 
 Even with Nafta, and now Cafta, the Central American Free Trade Agreement, American business travelers are not seen as crucial to Latin America's future; China is crucial to Latin America's future. ''I have heard that 51 percent of China's foreign investment is aimed at Latin America,'' Mr. Pupo of Pricewaterhouse Coopers said. ''China has been very aggressive in the marketplace.''
 China has agreements with many of the governments in the region, seeking out oil and agricultural products. LAN Airlines, based in Santiago, Chile, has inaugurated service to Beijing, and Aerolineas Argentinas has tested service to Beijing. 
 Milai Moniz, director of sales in Brazil for NH Hotels, a Spanish chain with properties throughout Latin America, said of Brazil, ''More people are coming from China, a huge increase of 300 percent because a few years ago there was nothing.''
 The region's unknown is Hugo Chavez, the president of Venezuela, who has said he wants to reduce business travel between his country and the United States if a diplomatic agreement is not reached by April 25.
 Mr. Garcia of Continental said the airline's Caracas-to-Houston flights are full of petroleum executives from both countries. ''It's in negotiation at this time,'' he said of the political standoff. ''We'll work with governments to help come to a resolution, but it's with the two governments.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The beach in Pinamar, 200 miles south of Buenos Aires. Some 250,000 Americans visited Argentina in 2005, up 30 percent in a year. (Photo by Natacha Pisarenko/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CUSTOMER SERVICE (90%); CURRENCIES (86%); TECHNICAL SUPPORT (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); FULL SERVICE HOTELS (77%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); EXCHANGE RATES (64%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (60%) Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (52%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%)

PERSON: Michael T Luongo

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) ARGENTINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); MEXICO (92%); BRAZIL (92%); INDIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Latin America

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006



253 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1653 words

HEADLINE: Experts See Peril in Reduced Monitoring of Nation's Streams and Rivers 

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
When Michael Griffin thinks about the stream gauge on the Licking River at Catawba, Ky., he says he has an uncomfortable sense that history may repeat itself.
 The stream gauge, one of some 7,400 nationwide, does what its name implies: it measures the level and flow of water in a stream. The data have many uses, most prominently in providing warnings of floods.
 In 1994, federal budget cuts led to the loss of a gauge on the Licking River at McKinneysburg. Three years later, a flash flood on the Licking inundated the town of Falmouth, six miles northwest, and killed four people.
 The furor over the incident led to more gauges and increased federal financing. But in the past few years, budget pressures have built up once more. And this time, the gauge at Catawba is caught in the squeeze. 
 ''We are on the same river probably within 50 miles of where we were before, and the same danged thing is happening again,'' said Mr. Griffin, who is the assistant director for hydrologic surveillance at the Kentucky Water Science Center. The center is part of the United States Geological Survey, which runs the nation's stream-gauge network. 
 ''Another flood hits, we might be back in exactly the same situation we were in back in '97,'' he said. 
 River flooding kills about 125 people each year and costs billions of dollars in property damage. ''That's more deaths per year than are attributed to tornadoes or hurricanes,'' said Thomas Graziano, the chief of the hydrologic services division of the National Weather Service. 
 The network of gauges, including temporary devices that can be installed at a spot that becomes worrisome, can help warn that a flood is on the way so people can move to higher ground. Without gauges, however, there are no data, and ''we can't meet our river forecast and warning mission without this data,'' Mr. Graziano said. 
 For all that, a stream gauge is a humble thing. Typically, a small structure like an outhouse on the stream bank protects the equipment. 
 Older gauges have sensors in a well dug under the structure. A pipe connects the well to the water flowing by. The ''stilling well'' isolates the level of the water without the interference of waves, and the position of a float measures the height of the water. Newer gauges accomplish the task without the stilling well. Separate measurements determine the velocity of the flow. 
 And while the data from gauges are best known for alerting people to floods, the devices serves many other purposes. The data help determine how often an area might be flooded, and with what intensity; that, in turn, guides engineers and architects in building bridges, roads and communities. It helps determine the 100-year flood measurement that figures into flood insurance policies and construction regulations.
 The data from the gauges also help measure the gradual changes in patterns of drought and high water. In Maine, for example, stronger stream flow in February and lower flow in May suggest that the winter ice has begun melting earlier. That can help assess the effect of global warming. But it is also important information for recreational fishermen and kayakers.
 All of that monitoring costs money: each gauge costs, on average, $13,500 to run, said Michael Norris, coordinator of the National Streamflow Information Program. The national network, which has other costs as well, takes some $120 million each year to run about 7,400 gauges, down from a peak of 8,221 in 1968.
 The program has always been supported by a patchwork of money from the United States Geological Survey; other federal agencies like the Army Corps of Engineers and the Bureau of Reclamation; and more than 800 state and local ''funding partners.'' 
 That arrangement can sometimes create tension, said Jay Gourley, a vice president of the Public Education Center, an environmental group that advocates greater resources for the system. ''It's kind of a game of chicken between the states and the federal government,'' Mr. Gourley said. ''The people who live in these flood-prone areas are the ones who are losing their property and dying in the meantime.''
 In the case of the Licking River, there is still debate over whether the deactivated stream gauge might have provided a crucial alert if it had still been in operation. Robert Hirsch, the associate director for water at the Geological Survey, said he believed that it would have. ''Lives were lost, I think, in part because of the inadequacy of the warning,'' Dr. Hirsch said. 
 After that flood, the government expanded the network, mainly by reactivating stream gauges that had been discontinued, bringing the number to more than 7,500 from about 7,000. 
 It added financing for the network and put more of the program under direct federal control to protect critical gauges, with the budget increase beginning in 2001. ''That resulted in a stabilization in the network,'' Dr. Hirsch said.
 But then, Mr. Norris said, ''Sept. 11 hit.'' With greater resources going to national security, the budget for the stream program stayed essentially flat while inflation caused costs to rise about 3 percent each year. 
 And while the pressure on the federal government to hold the line on rising budgets is fierce, at the state and local level it is even more so. ''This year we've been hearing from quite a few of our funding sources that things are not looking so good for continued funding,'' said Glenn G. Patterson, the head of the cooperative water program for the Geological Survey, which pays for 65 percent of the network. 
 And so the network has begun to shrink again for the first time since the 1990's. The network lost about 400 gauges in 2005, Mr. Norris said, with 350 added for a net loss of 50. At this point, Mr. Patterson said, about 200 gauges are ''threatened'' by budget cuts at some level. ''We've been holding pretty steady at about 7,400,'' he said, and added, ''We're looking at a pretty big net drop coming into '07.''
 Dr. Hirsch said, ''Now we're in the same position we were at the end of the 90's.''
 The Bush administration has requested an additional $2 million on top of the roughly $14 million direct federal contribution from the Geological Survey to the program, which Mr. Patterson called ''a step in the right direction.'' But, Mr. Patterson said, it will only help reinstate as many as 50 gauges -- but that does little to replace the number already discontinued or threatened. ''It won't solve the problem,'' he said. 
 The question of money comes down to national priorities, Mr. Norris said. He freely admitted that ''there's no reason to keep every stream gauge that's ever started'' since the program began in 1889. Yet ''there's nobody who says, 'We shouldn't be doing this; this is a waste of taxpayer dollars,' '' he added. ''What's more important? Is education more important or is a stream gauge at another location more important? Keeping terrorists out or getting more stream flow information?''
 Brian Mrazik, a retired Geological Survey official, says complacency often leads people to question the expense of the gauges. ''When floods come along, everyone's excited. They say, 'Let's fund gauges.' You go 20, 30 years without a flood, and people say, 'What the hell are we paying for this thing for?' ''
 The gauges most likely to be cut are those that do not have a critical role in flood alerts and safety, Mr. Patterson said, but loss of that data can have serious implications. ''The real impact, the real benefit from stream gauges, comes from the myriad day-to-day decisions of how big to make a culvert or how big to make a bridge,'' he said. 
 That loss of data troubles Mark T. Anderson, South Dakota Water Science Center director. He says that the process of losing stream gauges is a ''nagging, festering problem'' and that South Dakota lost seven gauges because of budget cuts at the Bureau of Indian Affairs. One of those gauges had been operating for 62 years, and another for 53. 
 ''If you have a discontinuity of a couple of years even, you lose part of the substantial investment that's been made in the period of record,'' Mr. Anderson said. ''It's like you're squandering the investment of your predecessors.'' 
 Besides, he added, ''You can't just run a gauge for 60 years and shut it down and say, 'Everything is fine.' Things keep changing.'' 
 And so, Mr. Anderson said, those long-lived gauges could ultimately prove more important than today's flood or tomorrow's bridge. ''It is these longer-term stream flow records that help us unravel what is going on with climate change.'' 
 Some of the most important gauges for that kind of work are the ones that are the farthest from communities, in rural areas where natural conditions prevail. But those are the gauges that are least likely to alert a community to a flood, and so they are lower on the list of gauges to save. 
 Advocates for a more robust stream gauge network, like Mr. Gourley, argue that the system is a bit like a pointillist painting: the loss of a single dot would probably not change the overall picture. But lose enough of them over time, and the image is lost.
 Robin G. Middlemis-Brown, director of the Geological Survey's Iowa Water Science Center, said he was especially sorry to see a gauge blink out that had been providing data on the Des Moines River in Iowa for 87 years. 
 ''If you don't know your past, you can't tell your future,'' Mr. Middlemis-Brown said. ''It's like going blind, slowly.''

Quakes and Dodos
A simulation of the 1906 San Francisco earthquake is online: nytimes.com/science.
Clips from the movie ''Flock of Dodos,'' and articles about evolution: nytimes.com/evolution.
The weekly Science Times podcast, with interviews with scientists and writers: nytimes.com/podcasts.
Articles on hundreds of science and health topics, including avian flu, diabetes and global warming: topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics.


GRAPHIC: Photos: UP TO HERE -- A Geological Survey technician at a gauge house on the Northeast Branch of the Anacostia River in Maryland, above. Another employee clearing debris from the intake pipe of the gauge house, right, and showing a water data box, below. (Photographs by Carol T. Powers for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIVERS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); WEATHER (89%); HURRICANES (76%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); FLOODS & FLOODING (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); TROPICAL STORMS (75%); TORNADOES (75%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (72%); FLOOD INSURANCE (71%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (66%); INSURANCE POLICIES (50%) Floods; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Floods

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (90%) United States Geological Survey ; Kentucky Water Science Center

PERSON: John Schwartz; Michael Griffin

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006



254 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Retirement; ON THEIR OWN: ESSAY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1500 words

HEADLINE: Save Yourself

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT; Suzanne MacNeille wrote the profiles and contributed reporting for the main article.. 
David Leonhardt writes an economics column that appears on Wednesdays in the Business Day section of The Times.

 BODY:
WHEN my wife and I talk about paying for our retirement, we assume that we will be pretty much on our own. We are both 33, and it's hard to have a lot of confidence that Social Security and traditional pensions will do for us what they did for our grandparents.
 So at a time when the national savings rate has fallen below zero -- that is, Americans spent more than they earned last year for the first time since 1933 -- my family has gone the other way. Laura and I have become addicted to retirement savings even though we are decades from retirement. We try to take advantage of every tax break the government offers and aim to save more than 10 percent of our income every year. We like to think of it as being frugal, but another adjective -- cheap -- would not be unfair. 
 I don't really think Social Security will be gone when I retire, and I expect to get some kind of small pension. But it seems foolish to ignore what's going on. President Bush has said that Social Security is ''headed toward bankruptcy.'' United Airlines and Bethlehem Steel have reneged on some promises to their retirees. I.B.M., Verizon and General Motors have said that future retirees should expect smaller pensions. So my wife and I do not expect much. 
 Apparently we are part of a small movement of new savers. Hidden by the statistics on average savings, a growing group of Americans in their 30's and 40's are acting like disciples of Ben Franklin. You can find this group in the Federal Reserve's latest study on family finances or just by talking to people around the country.
 Of course, the new generation of savers is not exactly a cross section of the population. We tend to make good salaries, be healthy -- or at least well insured -- and often have relatives who can help us out now and later. We're saving not only because we think we need to but also, simply, because we can. 
 Take a look, for instance, at the small group of households headed by someone younger than 35 that made at least $129,400 in 2004, putting them in the highest-earning tenth of households. These families had built up an average of $91,800 in retirement savings in 2004, according to an analysis of government data by Moody's Economy.com, a research firm. In 1995, the equivalent group had just $30,700, adjusted for inflation. The level of savings has nearly tripled, despite a decade of stock-market gyrations. 
 ''I'm not entirely counting on Social Security or my pension,'' said Alma E. Cardenas, a 42-year-old computer engineer on Long Island with $150,000 socked away. Leslie O'Connor, a 43-year-old married father of two living in Northern California, said, ''I want to look past Social Security as if it doesn't exist.'' Jill Dorson Chi, a 39-year-old bed-and-breakfast owner in Florida, is even more pessimistic about Social Security than I am. 
 ''We're working on the assumption that we'll have to support ourselves in our retirement,'' said Ms. Dorson Chi, who lives with her husband and 11-month-old daughter on Amelia Island.
 This attitude is creating a surge of inequality in retirement saving. Driven by a fear that they will be in worse shape than their parents are, many well-off members of Generation X may actually end up better prepared for retirement. Yet most young families are saving almost nothing, and might have to rely on the rickety retirement structure set up by the federal government and the nation's employers.
 ''There's no doubt that there's going to be much more variation,'' said Jack L. VanDerhei, a Temple University professor affiliated with the Employee Benefit Research Institute in Washington. ''Some people are smart, some are lucky, and some are on the other end of the spectrum.'' 
 In fact, for the young and poor, saving for retirement seems to have become harder over the last decade. In 2004, households headed by somebody younger than 35 that made less than $18,500 -- putting them in the lowest-earning fifth of households -- had accumulated an average of just $200 in savings. Most, in other words, had put away nothing for retirement. In 1995, the same group had savings of $2,600 on average. That is a decline of more than 90 percent in less than a decade.
 Melissa Marcello, a 39-year-old waitress at a steakhouse in Orlando, Fla., expects to make as much as $40,000 this year, a little more than the national median for full-time workers. Even so, she says retirement is ''not a thought in my head.'' 
 She automatically moves $100 into a mutual fund every month, making her thriftier than most Americans, but she still expects Social Security to be a major part of her retirement income. ''I think it will be,'' Ms. Marcello said. ''I hope it will be. It will have to be there.''
 The growing savings gap will probably have big political implications, even if they are not clear now. A relatively small but influential group of workers could end up with a much smaller stake in Social Security than previous generations had. If taxes need to be raised to shore up the system, these families may resist. They may reason that they had responsibly reined in their own spending to set aside money for retirement -- and that they shouldn't be asked to pay for the retirement of less careful families.
 ''The trend lines argue strongly for a big battle along the distribution of income over retirement financing,'' said Mark Zandi, the chief economist for Economy.com. ''I don't see how we're going to avoid it.''
 On the other hand, the new savings inequality may also make it easier for the government to reduce the future Social Security benefits of affluent families. This is a potential solution to the looming budget deficits, one that has attracted some support on both the right and the left. 
 ''By itself, that is enough to, 'solve' the Social Security problem,'' said Douglas Holtz-Eakin, a former adviser to Mr. Bush and former director of the Congressional Budget Office. In the future, he added, the idea ''may face less resistance than it would now because the young of today are preparing themselves.''
 Whatever the implications, it is clear that young people are saving for retirement differently from those who are closer to it. Across the income spectrum, retirement savings have grown during the last decade among families headed by somebody older than 45. The increases were much larger -- in both dollars and percentages -- for upper-income families. 
 But even over-45 households that were among the lowest fifth of earners had amassed an average of $4,000 in 2004, up 21 percent from what the equivalent families had in 1995. Among the second poorest fifth, savings grew 11 percent, to $12,900 in the same period. Still, no group of households headed by 45-year-olds and up, not even the richest, experienced as big a savings jump as the highest-earning young households over the last decade. These families are the great new savers.
 The best news -- at least for those of us who think more savings would be a good thing -- may be that economists know much more than they used to about getting people to save more. So if our society decides it wants young families, and not just affluent ones, to put away more money, we have a good idea about what to do.
 The easiest step is to make saving for retirement the default option for workers. They can opt out of their 401(k) plan if they want to, but if they do nothing, a small percentage of everypaycheck will be set aside for retirement.
 At companies that have made 401(k) enrollment automatic -- and there are a growing number -- about 85 percent of employees participate, according to academic research. When employees have to sign up themselves, only about 33 percent do so within their first six months on the job. After three years, the portion rises to only a little more than 60 percent.
 A second important change would make it harder for people to take money out of their retirement account. To pay for their move to Northern California from Florida, Leslie O'Connor and his family spent much of the money in their individual retirement accounts. People who do this pay a tax penalty, but drawing down retirement savings is still ''incredibly easy,'' Mr. VanDerhei, the Temple professor, said. 
 ''You have all sorts of people looking at a $10,000 or $20,000 or $30,000 balance and thinking, 'Well, I'm still young, and I could really use this for a new car or a new house,' '' he said. 
 But it's nearly impossible to make up that savings later on. Money you save when you are young has decades to grow. If a retirement account earns an average of 3 percent after inflation, 25-year-olds who put away $1,000 will find that its buying power will have more than tripled by the time they turn 65. But money you save in your 50's won't come close to doubling by age 65.
 In other words, it makes more sense to save when you're young. A penny saved at age 30 is like three pennies earned. That seems like the best argument for turning the fringe group of new savers into a mass movement.


GRAPHIC: Photos: JILL DORSON CHI -- B&B/restaurant owner, Amelia Island, Fla., 39
DR. FRITZ GALETTE -- Psychologist, Staten Island, 37
ALMA E. CARDENAS -- Computer engineer, Nesconset, N.Y., 42
RAQUEL M. GAYLE -- Lawyer, Atlanta, 33 (Photographs by NICOLE BENGIVENO/The New York Times)(pg. G1)Graph: ''Family Nest Eggs''The average value of retirement accounts for families with the head of household under 35 years old, adjusted for inflation (in 2004 dollars), by income percentile. The dips in 2001 reflect the sharp decline in the stock market that began in 2000.Graph tracks the average value of retirement accounts for families with the head of household under 35 years old, adjusted for inflation (in 2004 dollars), by income percentile since 1995.(Sources by Moody's Economy.com
 Federal Reserve)(pg. G13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); SAVINGS RATES (76%); PERSONAL DEBT (76%); FAMILY (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%) Retirement; Social Security (US); Pensions and Retirement Plans; Personal Finances

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%); BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (55%); VZ (NYSE) (55%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%) David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006



255 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Retirement; BACK IN BUSINESS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: Trying Out for Life's Second Act

BYLINE: By DEE GILL

 BODY:
NOTORIOUS for high financial risk and grueling work hours, entrepreneurship sounds like just the sort of venture a retirement-minded person would shun. But more people at or near retirement age are going into business for themselves, sometimes living out their senior years far differently than they ever would have imagined.
 Separate studies in the past two years from the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation and the Center on Aging and Work at Boston College indicate that Americans are increasingly becoming entrepreneurs at age 50 or later, a trend researchers expect to intensify as baby boomers expand the age group. Even the over-65 age group is becoming self-employed more often now, according to the Kauffman Foundation research.
While many of these self-employed workers are independent contractors -- often operating a one-person business like a consultancy -- research also indicates that older workers are opening or buying full-fledged businesses more than in the past. A study published by AARP in 2004, using research from the nonprofit RAND Corporation, shows an upward trend in the number of people over age 50 who own incorporated businesses. 
 As much as these unlikely entrepreneurs are drawn by the challenge of succeeding in business, experts say, many are pushed into the effort by difficult circumstances. 
 For 57-year-old Howard DuBrow, the decision to buy a business came from a company merger that left him jobless in 2002. After 30 years of climbing corporate ladders, he found himself in a quandary: he was too young to retire, too old to do it again.
 ''I knew I couldn't just retire,'' said Mr. DuBrow, who as a vice president of a major computer-leasing company oversaw some $2.5 billion in accounts before the layoff. ''I didn't have enough money for that. But I had just had it with corporate work. I was tired and burned out. I didn't think I had the drive anymore to go back in and fight my way up again.'' 
 Instead, he left Chicago and dipped into his collected bonuses and 401(k)'s to buy a small, struggling hardware store in New Port Richey, Fla. Today, he spends about 50 hours a week stocking shelves, helping customers and running Davis Hardware along with his five employees. It hasn't worked out exactly as he had planned -- Mr. DuBrow had envisioned profits and three-day workweeks -- but he said he was happy. ''It's fun,'' he said. ''I still like it a lot better than anything I did before.''
 Certainly, people generally want to work later in life than ever before, said Marcie Pitt-Catsouphes, director of the Boston College Center on Aging and Work. ''Almost every single survey makes that loud and clear,'' she said. ''In contrast to the past, people don't want to quit.'' 
 Yet despite some companies' recent efforts to retain senior workers, corporate downsizing has left many older workers out of jobs before they wanted to leave, said Sara Rix, senior policy adviser at AARP. Also, as retirement looms, she said, they take a harder look at how much they have accrued toward retirement, and if it will support the quality of life they had expected. If someone wants to begin to earn more, entrepreneurship can seem easier or more attractive than finding good-paying salaried employment after 50. 
 Clarence Wildes, who worked for 22 years in engineering jobs at Sprint, said he applied for dozens of jobs and even drove a school bus awhile after he was forced into early retirement at age 52. At the time, he was surprised to find his bank account short of a retirement living, he said, in part because his company stock had lost much of its value. ''I had expected the position I was in to give me a whole lot more toward retirement than what I got,'' he said. 
 Two years later, he took a crash course in starting a business at the Kauffman Foundation, which promotes entrepreneurship. In 2003, he opened Rolling Wheels Training Center, a motorcycle driving school in Kansas City. Long before leaving Sprint, Mr. Wildes had dreamed of starting Rolling Wheels -- in retirement. ''I was forced into it before I was ready,'' he said.
 Unemployment is a powerful motivator for entrepreneurship, said the economist Rob Fairlie, an associate professor at the University of California, Santa Cruz, and author of the ''Kauffman Index of Entrepreneurial Activity.'' He said his research shows that people who lost jobs are more likely to start businesses than others. Of those who do, he said, the average age is 50.
 Kathryn Morrison said she never envisioned herself as an entrepreneur until she found herself unemployed at age 50, after a career in broadcasting and a stint as a press go-between for a financial trade association. ''I couldn't find a job,'' she said. ''I was terrified.''
 But she landed a contract to produce a brochure for one mutual fund company and then another. She opened SunStar, based in Alexandria, Va., as a media relations company for investment advisers, which has grown to 12 employees with about $2.5 million in annual revenues. Ms. Morrison, now 65, said she had no intention of retiring any time soon. 
 Of course, some late-in-life entrepreneurs are simply fulfilling long-time dreams that could be fulfilled only after decades of wage or salary work. Early retirement packages or hefty 401(k)'s sometimes make those goals possible.
 ''All of my life I had wanted to go into business for myself,'' said Wally Blume, 67, one of the inventors of the formula for Moose Tracks ice cream. In his 30's and 40's, Mr. Blume looked into numerous entrepreneurial opportunities, including a franchise cheese store. ''But I never had the money to make it work,'' he said. He eventually resigned himself to a long career at the supermarket giant Kroger Corporation in new product development, followed by a stint as an ingredients salesman for a smaller company. 
 But when Moose Tracks, an ice cream flavoring he and a few colleagues invented on the side, became an unexpected hit, Mr. Blume discovered he had both the opportunity and the product to finally start a business. He was 62 when he built a home in Wayland, Mich., with an entire floor dedicated to turning the brand into a full-fledged business.
 His business, Denali Flavors, now sells ingredients for 30 copyrighted flavors, including Moose Tracks. While he wouldn't disclose Denali's financial condition, he said its flavors were included in products that generate roughly $85 million a year in sales. The company is expanding the use of its products in cakes and cookies, as well as in ice cream in foreign countries.
 As an entrepreneur, Mr. Blume said he has worked a lot longer hours than he did in his youth, particularly in the first couple of years. ''But you just love it,'' he said. ''This was my business, and this was my passion.''
 Sometimes, older workers look into buying a business as a way to ease into retirement. But there are very few successful companies that allow the owners to work half-days, business brokers typically tell clients. ''There are none -- they're all broke,'' said Bob Hough, president of Sunbelt Business Brokers in Clearwater, Fla. Entrepreneurship, they warn, requires long hours. 
 Regardless, older entrepreneurs tend to be more satisfied than their counterparts in salaried jobs, according to research at the Boston College center. In an unpublished study this year, some 90 percent of small-business owners over age 50 that the center surveyed were more likely than wage and salaried workers to want to stay in the same job.
 Like any other population in business, older entrepreneurs report a variety of success. Mr. DuBrow said he was still putting more money into his hardware store than he got out of it. He said he hoped to make a profit of about $2,000 to $3,000 a month from it within a couple of years. Mr. Wildes, the motorcycle school owner, said he did not expect to get rich. ''But we'll make a living,'' he said.
 Mr. Blume and Ms. Morrison both said they were financially far happier and more successful than they ever expected. ''I drive expensive cars and vacation around the world,'' Ms. Morrison said. ''My life is better than my best dreams.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: TASTY TREATS -- Wally Blume, 67, an entrepreneur and one of the inventors of the formula for Moose Tracks ice cream, turned the brand into a full-fledged business called Denali Flavors, which sells ingredients for 30 flavors. (Photo by Joe Tucker/Moose Tracks)
 NEW LIFE -- After 30 years in corporate life, Howard DuBrow, 57, bought a struggling business, Davis Hardware, in New Port Richey, Fla. (Photo by Gregg Matthews for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); RETIREMENT AGE (90%); TRENDS (89%); US 401K PLANS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); WORK WEEK (78%); OLDER WORKERS (78%); BABY BOOMERS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); FOUNDATIONS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (74%); LEASING INDUSTRY (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); MERGERS (64%); HARDWARE STORES (60%); COMPUTER RENTAL & LEASING (50%) Small Business; Retirement; United States Economy

COMPANY: RAND CORP (69%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON COLLEGE (57%); AARP INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (69%)

PERSON: Dee Gill; Howard DuBrow; Wally Blume

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006



256 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Tribe Member Dies After Police Shooting at a Back-Roads Party 

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

 BODY:
A member of the Ramapough Mountain Indians who was shot on April 1 during a confrontation with New Jersey State Park Police died yesterday, the tribe's chief said.
 Emil Mann, 45, of Monroe, N.Y., was shot in the chest and leg after the park police interrupted his birthday party at a popular picnic spot in the woods in Mahwah, N.J. He was at Hackensack University Medical Center until he died yesterday, shortly after noon.
The New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, which oversees the Park Police, has asked the state attorney general to review the shooting to determine whether the department's rules were followed. The Bergen County prosecutor's office is conducting the criminal investigation. 
 The Environmental Protection Department has put the four officers involved in the confrontation on paid leave, including Chad Walder, the officer who is alleged to have fired the shots. 
 The officers are based at Ringwood State Park, near the picnic spot, known locally as the German house, which is on a rough trail. Police Chief James N. Batelli of Mahwah said the site of the shooting was apparently owned by Bergen County. 
 The tribe members visit it on all-terrain vehicles, Chief Batelli said, and the park police were looking for violators of state park rules prohibiting the vehicles' use. The members have questioned the use of deadly force and have said the police could have been outside their jurisdiction.
 Tribe members said Mr. Mann was unarmed and trying to break up a fight between his cousin, Otis Mann, and a park officer.
 After meeting with the prosecutor last week, the chief of the Ramapoughs, Anthony Van Dunk, said, ''We're going to find out what the truth is.'' He added, ''We have to find some level of security for our people, who justly are leery of authority.'' 
 The Ramapoughs are economically strapped and very rural, which sets them apart from most of the residents of wealthy Bergen County.
 Tribe members said they considered Mr. Mann's shooting the latest assault upon their community, which has been engaged in a prolonged battle with Ford Motor Company over the dumping of paint sludge in the area. Ford's Mahwah plant closed in 1980, and the area was declared clean in 1994, but it has required three or four additional cleanups. Residents have attributed numerous health problems to the pollution. 
 Catherine Fantuzzi, an assistant Bergen County prosecutor, said that in the confrontation, Emil Mann was charged with aggravated assault on a police officer, two counts of trying to disarm a police officer, hindering apprehension and obstruction of justice. His cousin, Otis Mann, was charged with aggravated assault, resisting arrest and lesser charges. The prosecutor's office offered no further details. 
 Agnes Mann, a distant cousin of Emil Mann, said she was told that he was holding his arms up and asking, ''What did I do?'' when he was shot. ''They had no business shooting anybody, no reason for doing that,'' she said.
 A telephone call to Emil Mann's home yesterday evening was not answered. 
 Chief Batelli said the tribe should discuss the confrontation at length with the police, to address matters like why it happened and why the officers were in their area, ''imposing certain laws on them.''
 New York and New Jersey recognize the Ramapoughs as a tribe, but the tribe has failed to obtain federal recognition. It has about 5,000 members. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE PARKS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (87%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MISCONDUCT (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (75%); ARRESTS (73%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%) Parks and Other Recreation Areas; Police Brutality and Misconduct; Ramapough Indians; All-Terrain Vehicles

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (83%)

ORGANIZATION: BERGEN COUNTY PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE (57%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (83%); F (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%)

PERSON: Emil Mann; Tina Kelley

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Mahwah (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006



257 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: Key Diplomats Together Again, But Not Meeting On North Korea 

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: TOKYO, April 10 

 BODY:
The top envoys in the six-nation talks over North Korea's nuclear arms program gathered here on Monday for an academic conference on international security, but prospects that the long-stalled negotiations would resume appeared low. 
 Christopher R. Hill, the assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific Affairs, said upon his arrival here that he had no plans to meet his North Korean counterpart, Kim Kye Gwan. ''I am not planning to request a bilateral meeting,'' Mr. Hill told reporters, ''and to my knowledge they have not requested it either.''
It is the first time that all top negotiators from the participating countries, which also include Japan, South Korea, China and Russia, have been in the same place at the same time since the last round of talks ended in November.
 North Korea has said it will not return to the negotiating table unless the United States lifts a crackdown on North Korean companies and the financial institutions that deal with them. American officials say the North is engaged in money laundering and counterfeiting of dollars, charges that it denies.
 ''They ought to come back to the six-party talks without any conditions,'' Mr. Hill said. ''I think the six-party talks are in their interest.''
 Mr. Kim, the North Korean negotiator, told reporters, ''It would be a good thing if we can meet.''
 North Korean diplomats held bilateral talks over the future of the six-party talks and other matters with South Korean, Chinese and Japanese officials on Monday, on the sidelines of the first day of the security conference. The forum, sponsored by the University of California at San Diego, is to end Tuesday. Mr. Hill is expected to leave Tokyo for Seoul on Wednesday afternoon.
 The off-again-on-again talks aimed at persuading North Korea to give up its nuclear arms -- North Korea is believed to have enough plutonium to make 8 to 12 nuclear weapons -- began in August 2003. Even as Bush administration officials have been split between those favoring punitive actions and those advocating more talks, the nations involved in the talks have grown apart in their strategy toward North Korea -- with the United States and Japan wanting to squeeze it, possibly with sanctions, and China and South Korea urging economic engagement.
 Last September, it seemed that North Korea had agreed in principle to abandon its nuclear program. But the deal, which left vague the date of disarmament and details about a possible civilian nuclear power plant for the energy-poor North, collapsed 24 hours later when North Korea said the United States ''should not even dream'' that it would dismantle its nuclear weapons before receiving a new nuclear plant.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); DISARMAMENT (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); MONEY LAUNDERING (67%); COUNTERFEITING (52%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations

PERSON: Norimitsu Onishi

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (72%); TOKYO, JAPAN (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (93%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) North Korea; Japan; South Korea; China; Russia

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006



258 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Baghdad Journal; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: In Stock Market, the Bears Gnaw at Iraq's Confidence

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; Khalid W. Hassan contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, April 10 

 BODY:
Falah al-Ogaidy squinted through his glasses at the numbers scrawled across white boards at the Iraq Stock Exchange.
 The share value of the Baghdad Soft Drinks Company hovered at 2 dinars. It had not budged in three trading sessions. Mr. Ogaidy sighed. He owns four million shares, worth about $5,400 on that recent morning.
''The prices after the war were so high,'' said Mr. Ogaidy, who imports Chinese sewing machines. ''People were happy, thinking there would be a good economy and stability. But everything happened the other way around.'' 
 If stock markets are any measure of a nation's confidence, then the numbers at the nascent Iraq Stock Exchange show that faith in the country may be at its lowest ebb. 
 The bear has dug its claws in deep: the market index has lost almost two-thirds of its value in the past year, closing these days below 30, from a high of 74 in March 2005.
 The exchange, which opened in June 2004, lists 94 companies, from hotels to date merchants to a maker of animal vaccines. It is perhaps Iraq's keenest expression of American-style capitalism: scores of investors and traders, some in pinstriped suits, others in ankle-length robes and head scarves, gather every Monday and Wednesday. 
 Guards with Kalashnikov rifles stand outside next to razor wire and concrete blast walls. The ringing of a silver school bell at 10 a.m. announces a session's start. Shouting and hand-waving fill the room, and cups of thick Turkish coffee are passed around. Another clanging at noon signals the close.
 Analysts and investors rattle off an endless ticker tape of reasons for the downturn: the threat of full-scale civil war, the virulent insurgency, lack of a government, a shaky economy, a dearth of foreign money. 
 ''It went down because we don't have a government yet, we don't have a future,'' said Taha Ahmed Abdul Salam, the chief executive of the exchange, a private business completely different from the Baghdad Stock Exchange, which was run by Saddam Hussein's government. 
 The market's free fall is also emblematic of the moribund economy. Though income per capita has risen, some estimates place the unemployment rate at 60 percent. 
 The growth rate was mired at 2.6 percent last year, and the Bush administration's projection of 10 percent growth for 2006 seems overly optimistic, given the continuing sabotage of oil pipelines, which has shut down exports through Turkey. 
 Perhaps the notion of an Iraqi stock market is a little premature, because arcane financial laws provide little protection for investors. 
 Without a major policy overhaul, investors will shy away and growth will be stymied, said Daniel Speckhard, director of the Iraq Reconstruction Management Office at the American Embassy. Instability has also pushed wealthy Iraqis to send their money abroad. 
 Yet a sliver of hope remains. More than 100 investors show up for each session.
 ''We think that one day, the darkness in the market will show some light,'' said Rone Benham, 45, holding up a pair of binoculars to peer at the figures on the boards. ''The prices are so cheap now. With a piece of candy, you can buy 500 shares.''
 Fifty traders work the floor, plastic badges on their jackets and clipboards in hand. They rush between investors standing behind a wooden railing and the white boards lining a wall at the rear. The traders also juggle cellphones ringing with orders.
 But there are fewer and fewer big trades, they say.
 ''It's all because of the security situation,'' said Muaiyad Fouad, 68, a trader with a silver mustache and a professorial bearing. ''The big investors won't come here. The ones who'd spend millions, they're all afraid. Their offices are closed. They won't go anywhere without three or four bodyguards.''
 The traders were all hired from the old exchange. Mr. Fouad started there in 1994. The top three traders last year each made more than $20,000, said Mr. Abdul Salam, the chief executive. The poorest made less than $7,000.
 The market has shown signs of growth, even if it is far from bullish, Mr. Abdul Salam said. Its capitalization is $2.17 billion, small compared to other Middle Eastern exchanges, but up from $1.15 billion at the end of 2004. The daily volume of trade is $2 million to $3 million.
 At the urging of Iraqi business executives, L. Paul Bremer III, the former American proconsul and a champion of free-market principles, signed the order forming the Iraq Stock Exchange. 
 Its owners are the country's major banks, and it has a three-member board of governors. The Iraq Securities Commission was recently set up to monitor the exchange and rewrite financial laws to allow foreign investment.
 The exchange is also working to connect itself electronically to markets around the world.
 ''Now we have two challenges -- building an electronic system and creating regulations for foreign investors,'' Mr. Abdul Salam said. ''If we have these two in place, and we establish a new government, stock prices will be 10 or 20 times higher by the end of the year.''
 About half the listed companies are actively traded, and Baghdad Soft Drinks is the most active, with 112 transactions in a recent session. Also popular are the banks.
 The overall market is not usually shaken by mayhem on the streets, so inured are investors to the war. Attacks, though, can send individual share prices reeling. The stock price of the Basra International Bank plummeted 30 percent right after the bank's chairman and his son were abducted from their Baghdad home on Feb. 16. Mr. Benham, the binocular-toting investor, said his favorite company was a date processor. One day, it will export around the world, he said. ''I've put half of my money into it.'' 
 He had bought at 6 dinars a share; it is now worth 2. 
 Mr. Benham once worked as a video store clerk in Detroit and lost a lot of money in the Internet bust. But he cannot pull himself away from the market. ''I'm addicted to it,'' he said. ''I feel rich when I have shares.''
 Mr. Ogaidy, the sewing machine importer, sauntered over and offered a cup of coffee to a foreign visitor. He had just made $1,700 by selling shares of Bank of Baghdad. ''I'm buying now,'' he said, and raced off.
 The silver bell rang minutes later.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Iraq Stock Exchange is open for business two mornings a week, and business is brisk, despite the tumble in share prices. Banks are a popular investment, but prices have fallen so far that a goodly number of shares can be bought for the price of a candy bar. Traders keep hoping for an upturn, but much greater economic stability in Iraq is a prerequisite, they add. (Photographs by Johan Spanner/Polaris, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (78%); SOFT DRINKS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); CIVIL WAR (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); BONDS (72%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); EXECUTIVES (66%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (64%); TERRORISM (64%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (62%); VETERINARY DRUGS (54%) Stocks and Bonds; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: Iraq Stock Exchange

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Edward Wong

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006



259 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE IMMIGRATION DEBATE: A DEAL; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: Farmworkers' Union Is Set to Announce First National Contract for Guest Workers 

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
With Congress debating a major expansion in the program for guest workers, the nation's largest union of farmworkers planned to announce today that it had signed the first nationwide contract covering agricultural guest workers.
 The union, the United Farm Workers, and Global Horizons, a labor contractor based in Los Angeles, have signed an agreement that provides employer-paid medical care, a seniority system and a grievance procedure to help ensure that farms comply with state and federal laws.
''This is huge, because we're setting a whole new standard of rights and benefits for guest workers,'' said Erik Nicholson, the union's Pacific Northwest director. ''Guest workers have been the most exploitable and vulnerable workers short of slaves in the United States.'' 
 Global Horizons, one of the nation's largest suppliers of agricultural guest workers, has nearly 1,000 in the country now, but plans to have 3,000 to 5,000 by peak harvest season this summer. 
 The company, which has workers in more than a dozen states, signed the union contract in part to help improve its image after Washington State revoked its license to do business there because of violations alleged by state investigators. The state accused it of failing to pay Thai guest workers their promised wages, putting them in inadequate housing, not paying enough unemployment insurance taxes and improperly withholding state income taxes.
 Gov. Chris Gregoire of Washington revoked Global's license last December, even though the company had agreed three months earlier to a $230,000 settlement, which was used largely for workers' unreimbursed airfare and for improperly deducted taxes.
 Global Horizons said it had committed only minor violations.
 Mordechai Orian, the president of Global Horizons, said the union contract would help defuse complaints that guest worker programs treated workers poorly. At a time when many fruit and vegetable growers are having a hard time finding enough workers, Mr. Orian said the contract would also help persuade guest workers to stay in agriculture instead of leaving soon after arriving in the United States to work in other industries.
 ''It's definitely going to cost us more money,'' Mr. Orian said, asserting that the guest worker program was a good one for workers, and would soon be better as a result of this contract. 
 Agricultural guest workers, who enter the country under the H-2A program, often remain for six months to two years. Under federal law, labor contractors and growers can import such workers only after showing that there are not enough workers in the nation to take the farm jobs.
 ''From the bracero program of the 1940's, 50's and 60's to the present-day H-2A program, the use of agricultural guest workers has been beset by violations of legal protections,'' said Arturo Rodriguez, president of the United Farm Workers. ''For the first time, a union contract will protect agricultural guest workers from retaliation for complaining about conditions or treatment.''
 In 2004, another farmworkers' union, the Farm Labor Organizing Committee, signed a contract that protects several thousand guest workers in just one industry in one state, cucumber workers in North Carolina.
 Under the contract with Global Horizons, the guest workers will be paid 2 percent more than the minimum wage that guest workers normally receive. In Washington State, for instance, the federal minimum for agricultural guest workers is $9.01.
 The contract also includes three-day bereavement leave as well as round-trip transportation if a family member dies back home.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARM LABOR (96%); FOREIGN LABOR (95%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MIGRANT WORKERS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); TAX LAW (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (76%); HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (76%); REFUGEES (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); FRUIT & NUT FARMING (72%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (72%); LICENSES & PERMITS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); INCOME TAX (65%); AIR FARES (64%) Agriculture; Migrant Labor; Immigration and Refugees; Law and Legislation; Law and Legislation; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Agriculture; Fringe Benefits ; Labor; Organized Labor

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FARM WORKERS OF AMERICA (84%) United Farm Workers of America; Global Horizons

PERSON: CHRISTINE GREGOIRE (50%) Steven Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Washington (State); United States

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006



260 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 161 words

HEADLINE: They Said Immigration Could Be Fixed 

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 The value of the illegal immigrant to our economy is his illegality. If you understand this fact, you understand the problem. 
 So long as he retains his illegal status, he can be paid less, denied health care and dismissed at will. This is what those corporations that employ undocumented workers value the most. And this is why a ''guest worker'' program will never succeed.
When today's illegals become tomorrow's federally recognized guest workers, the jig will be up. Because of their legitimate status, guest workers will have to be treated like human beings. This will not sit well with those employers who thrive on illegals today.
 By adopting a ''guest worker'' program, we will be creating millions of legitimate workers, and those hard-pressed employers will be forced to seek out (and ''invite'' into our country) another illegal group willing to be paid less, denied health care and dismissed at will.

George Moss
Columbus, Ohio, April 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); FOREIGN LABOR (93%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); REFUGEES (73%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Foreign Labor

PERSON: George Moss

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006



261 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: They Said Immigration Could Be Fixed 

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Nicholas D. Kristof's April 9 column, like most comment on immigration, is reactive. But mass immigration is structural. 
 Most people do not willingly leave their homes. They come here in large numbers, for a life without rights or opportunity, because of the political, civil and economic conditions they leave. Immigration pressure will ease when source countries develop better economies and institutions.
Our policy should be to encourage such progress, as the European Union does with new and prospective member countries.
 At home, we will protect Americans at the lower end of our economy from unfair competition if we bring immigrants into the mainstream, where employment is legal and regulated. 
 And we need to provide Americans with decent education and opportunity, so high school dropout rates decrease and so, at the other end of the scale, we are under less pressure to skim ''brilliant minds'' from countries that need them at home.

Ben Altman
Chicago, April 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (87%); HIGH SCHOOLS (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: Ben Altman; Nicholas D Kristof

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006



262 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Where Brashness Doesn't Play

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, April 10 

 BODY:
It may work for Michael R. Bloomberg as mayor of New York City, but introducing a C.E.O. style to governing Thailand has not prevented that country's billionaire tycoon-turned-politician, Thaksin Shinawatra, from running into serious trouble.
 Mr. Thaksin, a former police officer who built a family telecommunications empire, swept to power in 2001 on a populist platform, promising to make life easier for the average Thai. As prime minister, Mr. Thaksin pledged to run his government the way he had run his telecommunications company, the Shin Corporation, and he swiftly enacted a raft of pro-investment, antipoverty policies that came to be known as Thaksinomics. 
Now Mr. Thaksin is out of a job, having resigned as prime minister last week in the face of widespread urban protests. Generous spending programs earned him enduring support in the countryside, but Mr. Thaksin's brash, autocratic style ultimately alienated the country's urban middle class.
 Criticism mounted as he tried to muzzle the press amid reports of violent crackdowns against Muslim insurgents and drug dealers, and as allegations surfaced that his policies were simultaneously lining the pockets of politicians and enhancing his family fortune. When his family announced in late January that it was selling its stake in Shin for $1.9 billion -- tax-free -- to a consortium led by Singapore's government, the public's disgust boiled over.
 ''The Shin transaction was just the tip of the iceberg,'' said Kitti Nathisuwan, head of research at Macquarie Securities in Bangkok. 
 While corruption is a familiar story in Thailand, strongman politics is not. What finally proved too much for Bangkok's normally deferential citizens, said Mr. Kitti, was Mr. Thaksin's lack of humility. ''In Thailand when you want to do things, you have to do it the Thai way,'' he said.
 It may be too early to write Mr. Thaksin's political epitaph, however. Mr. Thaksin remains head of the party he founded, Thai Rak Thai, which won a majority of votes in an election this month in which he initially claimed to be the victor. An election boycott by opposition parties has left Parliament with too few delegates to convene legally. But in the meantime, Mr. Thaksin has entrusted the government to his college friend and unelected deputy prime minister, Chitchai Wannasathit.
 Indeed, some analysts suggest that Mr. Thaksin is only biding his time until public tempers cool. He has used similar tactics to wait out previous protests, including rural opposition to a gas pipeline to Malaysia and union demonstrations against privatizing the state-owned power utility.
 Mr. Thaksin's headstrong policies have often courted controversy, even ridicule. He once raced by helicopter to a small town in a vain effort to locate a mythical hoard of wartime Japanese gold, saying it could be used to pay off the nation's foreign debts. He suggested helping the country's financial markets by advancing Thailand's clocks past those of its eastern neighbors, to the same time zone as the financial centers of Hong Kong and Singapore. And he fired his first central banker because the banker refused to raise interest rates, a move intended to stimulate spending by making Thai depositors feel wealthier.
 Mr. Thaksin's strategy eventually coalesced into what he called a dual-track policy that later came to be known as Thaksinomics. While promoting foreign investment, he emphasized economic self-reliance at home. He declared a debt holiday for Thai farmers and gave grants to small villages, instituting free health care and housing programs. 
 While Mr. Thaksin's incorporation of aspects of microfinance earned plaudits from some economists, others derided his policies as nothing more than pork-barrel politics aimed at winning rural votes. Some have accused Mr. Thaksin of returning Thailand to the kind of easy credit environment that set the stage for its 1997 financial crisis. Others say that Mr. Thaksin achieved little more than coaxing his recession-racked nation to begin spending again in time to catch the updraft that came with the global recovery of 2002.
 Nevertheless, after five years, Mr. Thaksin has left the country in better economic shape. 
 One of the important elements of the success of the Thaksin administration ''was restoring confidence among the business community as well as consumer confidence,'' said Vincent Milton, the Bangkok-based managing director of Fitch Ratings.
 Thailand's economy is on track to grow at least 4.5 percent this year, compared with the 2.2 percent growth it posted in 2001. Exports rose 18 percent in the first two months of 2006, according to the Bank of Thailand, after growing nearly 15 percent in 2005. Thailand's foreign currency reserves have risen to more than $50 billion. In 2003, Mr. Thaksin declared Thailand's independence from the International Monetary Fund, after making early repayment of the $3.4 billion that the fund had lent it during the crisis.
 Perhaps most impressive is that Mr. Thaksin managed to accomplish what previous governments had been unable to do even under pressure from the I.M.F.: privatize the national oil company and state-owned assets like airports. And after years of delays, Thailand is on the verge of opening a $4 billion airport in place of the dilapidated, congested airport that now serves the capital.
 But there have been allegations of corruption surrounding those accomplishments, and other troubling signs have emerged in the economy that some economists say expose the more threadbare patches of Thaksinomics.
 After trying to use subsidies to offset the impact of rising oil prices, Thailand eliminated subsidies for gasoline in late 2004 and last year lifted subsidies on the diesel fuel that powers many of the pickup trucks favored by working-class Thais. The subsequent rise in fuel prices helped push inflation above 6 percent, tipping Thailand into a trade deficit last year and dampening consumer spending. At the same time, easy credit has sent household debt as a percentage of income to more than 57 percent, from below 50 percent in 2001.
 But the most immediate concern to economists is what will happen to Mr. Thaksin's privatization and spending policies now that he has stepped aside. Mr. Thaksin was on the verge of starting a 1.8 trillion baht ($47 billion) spending program on infrastructure this year; economists fear it will be suspended, if it survives at all.


GRAPHIC: Photos: At a rally in Bangkok last Friday, people wearing headbands that say ''rescue nation'' celebrated the resignation of the prime minister, whom they accused of corruption and abuses of power. (Photo by Sakchai Lalit/Associated Press)
 Thaksin Shinawatra, shown at the headquarters of the political party he founded, hugged supporters last week after resigning as prime minister. (Photo by Wasant Wanitchakorn/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); MAYORS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (75%); DIVESTITURES (75%); ETHICS (75%); CORRUPTION (73%); BOYCOTTS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%); TRENDS (68%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (67%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (67%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); UTILITY PRIVATIZATION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (57%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (55%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (50%) Politics and Government; Economic Conditions and Trends; Ethics; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Telephones and Telecommunications

ORGANIZATION: Shin Corp

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%) Thaksin Shinawatra (Prime Min); Wayne Arnold

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) THAILAND (94%); SINGAPORE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MALAYSIA (79%) Thailand; Singapore

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006



263 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: New Dispute Over Earnings In City Deal With Snapple

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
A persistent feud between City Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr. and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg over the designation of Snapple as the most favored beverage of New York City erupted again yesterday, with Mr. Thompson asserting that the city's marketing corporation owes the city treasury nearly $236,000. 
 In an audit, Mr. Thompson asserted that the city's Marketing Development Corporation, a nonprofit group created to promote the city, owed $235,834, or half the sales commissions it received from Snapple between April 2004 and June 2005. The corporation's decision to give the city only half of the commissions, keeping the other half for itself, ''is not only arbitrary, it is clearly unauthorized,'' the audit stated. 
Today, the city's Concession and Franchise Review Committee is expected to vote to scale back the deal, which gave Snapple exclusive permission to sell flavored teas, chocolate drinks and water in city-controlled buildings in exchange for cash, advertising and special events. 
 Under the revised agreement, the city will receive $33 million in cash and marketing benefits, compared with the $126 million Mr. Bloomberg projected when he announced the five-year deal in September 2003.
 At a hearing of the committee yesterday, Joseph M. Perello, president of the marketing corporation, said, ''In hindsight, we were too ambitious when we made our initial announcement of the partnership,'' but added that it was ''still a beneficial deal.'' He said Mr. Thompson had failed to consider the other benefits of the deal, like free concerts. ''The audit misses the point,'' he said. 
 Mr. Thompson has criticized the deal from the start because it was not competitively bid, and he sued unsuccessfully to block it -- although a judge agreed with him that the city had failed to ''follow proper procedures'' and that deals involving intellectual property, like the Snapple arrangement, were subject to the committee's oversight.
 Last month, the marketing corporation told the panel that it had fallen far short of its target of selling a million cases a year. Only 50,000 cases were sold in the first year, and 70,000 cases are estimated for the second year, ending this month.
 The corporation was created in July 2003 and given a $1.2 million start-up loan from the city's Economic Development Corporation. By the end of last June, according to the audit, it had raised about $8.4 million and spent about $8.3 million. 
 The audit found that the marketing corporation had reported its revenues and expenses accurately and had not misspent its money. But it found that the agency had a cash surplus of $1.6 million at the end of last June and argued that most, if not all, of that money should have been turned over to the city. The agency replied that it needed the money to help pay $1.7 million in bills. 
 By the end of June, the marketing agency had earned $507,171 in sales commissions under the Snapple deal. After a 7 percent commission paid to Octagon, a sports and entertainment marketing company, the agency split the rest evenly between itself and the city. The audit called that decision ''arbitrary and self-serving,'' but the marketing commission maintained that the 50-50 split ''strictly adheres'' to an agreement with the city. 
 The audit also argued that there was ''a lack of effective oversight that would provide proper accountability of city funds.'' The mayor's Office of Management and Budget replied that it used ''commonly practiced methods for financial analysis, including human interaction.'' 
 The marketing commission released a chart asserting that since 2003, it had generated $1.2 million from the Snapple deal; $900,000 from a partnership with the History Channel; $2.7 million from the Country Music Association Awards and $950,000 through licensing arrangements, like permits for T-shirts and paraphernalia with Fire Department and Police Department emblems. Mr. Thompson maintained that the agency was improperly taking credit for activities that predated it.
 The marketing commission is opening a competition today for an ''official express and ground-delivery'' carrier. The winner will ''provide exclusive shipping services'' for many city agencies and, in exchange, give discounts to companies registered with the Department of Small Business Services. Responses are due in May, and the winner will be selected in December. 
 ''It's good to see the city pursuing competitive bidding instead of another ambitious blunder,'' Mr. Thompson said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); AUDITS (89%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (78%); TEA (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SALES COMPENSATION (76%); SALES FORCE (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (63%) Beverages; Marketing and Merchandising; Vending Machines; Beverages

ORGANIZATION: Snapple Beverage Group; Marketing Development Corp (NYC)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%) William C Jr (Comptroller) Thompson; Sewell Chan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006



264 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: Hamas Denounces Israeli Boycott of Palestinian Government

BYLINE: By DINA KRAFT; Safwat al-Kahlout contributed reporting from Gaza City for this article.

DATELINE: TEL AVIV, April 10 

 BODY:
Israel's decision to boycott the new Hamas-led Palestinian government was sharply condemned on Monday by Hamas, which called the decision a ''declaration of war.'' 
 ''It is a failed attempt to make divisions among Palestinians,'' a Hamas statement said. ''It is part of a continuous siege on the Palestinian people.''
The Palestinian leader, Mahmoud Abbas, with whom Israel is not explicitly ending ties, also rejected the new policy, saying it violated international law and existing Israeli-Palestinian agreements. 
 The statement from the militant group Hamas suggested that the Israeli government was trying to punish the Palestinian people for voting the group into office in parliamentary elections in January, when Mr. Abbas's Fatah organization was ousted as the ruling party. Mr. Abbas retains his post, however. 
 In the first act of its new policy, Israel closed a joint security coordination office near the West Bank town of Jericho. It was among the last offices run together by Israeli soldiers and Palestinian security officials. 
 The Israeli government has repeatedly said it would not deal with Hamas until the group recognized Israel's right to exist, renounced terrorism and abided by previous agreements between the sides. 
 ''If you are outside the international community and you act like a pariah, you cannot complain that people treat you like a pariah,'' said Mark Regev, the Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman, responding to the Hamas statement.
 Israel has been walking a political tightrope since Hamas's victory, trying to delegitimize the militant Islamic party but not to destabilize the government it now runs to the point of causing a crisis for the general population. 
 Mr. Regev said Israel was working to find ways to bypass the Palestinian government so that international assistance could directly reach the Palestinian people. 
 Last week the United States and the European Union announced that they would suspend aid to the Palestinian Authority because they regard Hamas as a terrorist organization. The move was a severe blow to the Authority, which is limping through a financial crisis. 
 In Gaza City hundreds of schoolchildren and teenagers marched on Monday, waving the green flags of Hamas, to protest the European Union decision to cut off aid. 
 Israel, meanwhile, continued its military assault on Palestinian militants launching homemade rockets from the Gaza Strip into neighboring Israeli towns and villages.
 A 9-year-old Palestinian girl was killed when Israeli tank shells crashed through the ceiling of her home in the northern Gaza Strip town of Beit Lahiyah, Palestinian security officials said. The shelling injured eleven other family members in the same house, witnesses said. 
 The Israeli Army spokesman's office confirmed that there had been artillery fire in the direction of the town, a dense urban area from which it said rockets had been launched repeatedly.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Top, Palestinian men and boys ran yesterday from a house in Beit Lahiyah, in the Gaza Strip, after an Israeli shell struck it, killing a 9-year-old girl. Below, children wounded at the house were carried to a hospital. (Photographs by Mohammed Salem/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (91%); BOYCOTTS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TERRORISM (89%); AL FATAH (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); CHILDREN (60%); RELIGION (50%) Palestinians; Boycotts; Elections; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%) Hamas

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (79%) Dina Kraft; Mahmoud (Pres) Abbas

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (86%); UNITED STATES (79%) Israel; Israel

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006



265 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: The Ford Administration as a Dress Rehearsal for Today

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:

31 Days
The Crisis That Gave Us The Government We Have Today
By Barry Werth
398 pages. Nan A. Talese/Doubleday. $26.
 The title of Barry Werth's compelling but somewhat cursory new book, ''31 Days: The Crisis That Gave Us the Government We Have Today,'' refers to the tumultuous period following President Richard M. Nixon's resignation -- a period in which President Gerald R. Ford tried to stabilize a country reeling from Watergate, reach a decision about pardoning his disgraced predecessor and establish an administration of his own. Those 31 days and the ensuing months were a period in which some of the key players in the current Bush administration -- most notably Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and Vice President Dick Cheney -- rose to power and established their mastery of intra-administration battles, a period that in some respects serves as a bookend to our own. 
Both then and now, Mr. Rumsfeld (who succeeded Alexander Haig as Mr. Ford's chief of staff and later become his secretary of defense) and Mr. Cheney (who was Mr. Rumsfeld's deputy and went on to succeed him as chief of staff), served a president who had come into office with little foreign policy or national security experience. Both then and now, the two men helped implement conservative policies that represented a turnaround from an earlier realpolitik approach, and both then and now, they took on a standing secretary of state (in the case of the Ford administration, Henry A. Kissinger, the architect of Mr. Nixon's detente strategy; in the case of the current administration, Colin L. Powell, who tried to slow the rush to war against Iraq).
 But while Mr. Werth raises these intriguing parallels, he does not shed much new light on the subject, save for a handful of comments in the closing pages. Indeed, the reader interested in the early career years of Bush administration members like Mr. Cheney and Mr. Rumsfeld would do well to read this volume in conjunction with James Mann's probing 2004 book, ''Rise of the Vulcans: The History of Bush's War Cabinet.'' 
 The bulk of ''31 Days'' -- which draws heavily on Mr. Ford's and Mr. Nixon's own writings, as well as on books by Richard Reeves, Bob Woodward and Walter Isaacson, among others -- turns out to be a straightforward chronicle of what President Ford did, day by day, sometimes hour by hour, during his first month in office. It's a technique that appears to have been borrowed from Mr. Reeves's recent books on Presidents Kennedy, Nixon and Reagan, and it shows Mr. Ford trying to balance ''two sparring, mutually distrustful staffs,'' Mr. Nixon's and his own, as he tries to send a message of continuity and stability to the nation, while at the same time trying to separate his administration from the muck and mire of Watergate.
 ''31 Days'' also gives the reader a visceral appreciation of the mind-boggling challenges facing Mr. Ford on his arrival at the White House, from restoring public trust in a post-Watergate government to trying to wrestle inflation to the ground to dealing with the question of amnesty for draft evaders. For Mr. Ford, the most difficult -- and momentous -- decision concerned a pardon for Mr. Nixon: not to pardon him could well mean that Watergate would continue to haunt the nation for months, even years, as the possibility of Mr. Nixon's going on trial loomed; and yet to pardon him, while so many of his underlings faced trial, could suggest that justice was not being meted out equally, and that Mr. Ford might have made a secret deal with his predecessor.
 Like many earlier commentators, Mr. Werth portrays Mr. Ford as a solid, forthright man, a bit naive perhaps, but frank and well meaning. In addition, he suggests that a central factor in the decision to grant Mr. Nixon a pardon stemmed from Mr. Ford's psychological desire to forgive and forget, and his role in mediating a settlement between his bitterly estranged parents: ''Whether for the country's sake, as he said, or for Nixon's, or for his own, his decision to act swiftly and mercifully towards his predecessor revealed an overpowering inner need to put the past behind, to bury it. Like Ford's father, Nixon had bequeathed Ford a ruinous domestic state, and Ford had closed out the matter as only he could do, by taking it upon himself to try to split the difference and then seal the record as part of the agreement.''
 Although many historians and journalists who initially criticized the decision came to revise their views in later years, Mr. Ford paid a heavy price at the time. His popularity plunged from 70 percent to 48 percent; he was savaged by liberals and conservatives alike; and his dwindling clout opened the door to the Republican right. With the fall of Saigon in 1975, hawks began to talk about putting an end to the ''Vietnam Syndrome,'' and many conservatives began to chafe against an ascendant press and post-Watergate reforms that curtailed the executive branch's prerogatives and tilted power back toward Congress.
 Mr. Ford was attacked by Ronald Reagan and Senator Henry M. Jackson for being weak on communism. Meanwhile, as Mr. Mann wrote in ''Rise of the Vulcans,'' Mr. Rumsfeld and Mr. Cheney ''began to undercut the power of Kissinger and of Kissinger's ally and friend Vice President Nelson Rockefeller,'' with Mr. Rumsfeld's eventually posing ''a frontal challenge to Kissinger's policies of detente and arms control with the Soviet Union.'' 
 Another Ford administration effort to appease hardliners involved the appointment of a ''Team B'' (a group that included Paul Wolfowitz, who would go on to become deputy secretary of defense in the administration of George W. Bush) to second-guess C.I.A. analyses of intelligence on the Soviet Union. Though many of Team B's conclusions, which depicted the U.S.S.R. as an expansionist monster, were later discredited as hyperbole, Mr. Werth writes that its report ''became the rallying point for opposition to detente and arms control'': ''Rumsfeld and Cheney drove the SALT II negotiations into the sand at the Pentagon and the White House,'' and ''the vaunted Nixon-Kissinger realism in foreign affairs was at last stalled, if not defeated.'' 
 Two and a half decades later, another Team B-like group was set up at Mr. Rumsfeld's Pentagon to sift through raw intelligence. It focused on evidence that might link Iraq to Al Qaeda and make the case that Saddam Hussein possessed weapons of mass destruction. And its findings would be used to challenge conventional intelligence estimates and help make the case for war against Iraq.
 Again, Mr. Werth suggests parallels between now and then, between Mr. Cheney and Mr. Rumsfeld's influence on foreign and defense policy in the current administration and Mr. Nixon's determination to centralize decision-making in the White House; between the marginalization of the State Department now (in the walk-up to the war in Iraq) and then (over Vietnam and the Paris peace talks). His book, however, has a curiously hasty feel, and never fully delivers on the premise embodied by its subtitle: ''The Crisis That Gave Us the Government We Have Today.'' Indeed, the reader finishes the volume wishing that Mr. Werth had expanded his 31-day time frame into a full-fledged examination of the Ford administration, instead of cramming many of the most telling developments into a brief epilogue.
 What ''31 Days'' does do, very forcefully, is give the reader a gripping narrative account of Ford's first weeks in office and some tantalizing glimpses of players in his administration (who would go on to far more powerful roles in government) during their formative years in Washington.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Barry Werth (Photo by Ellen Augarten)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LITERATURE (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (52%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (89%); DICK CHENEY (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%) Michiko Kakutani; Barry Werth

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2006



266 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Prefer Oranges to Cherries? Done; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1438 words

HEADLINE: From the Back Office, a Casino Can Change the Slot Machine in Seconds 

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, April 6 

 BODY:
From his small back office in the Treasure Island casino, Justin Beltram may soon be able to change the wheels of fortune instantly.
 Mr. Beltram, a casino executive, is the point man in a high-technology experiment that could alter the face of slot machines, and their insides, too.
With a few clicks of his computer mouse, Mr. Beltram can reprogram the 1,790 slot machines on the casino floor, adjusting the denominations required to play, payback percentages, even game themes.
 Las Vegas is constantly tinkering with its slot machines, which generate more than $7 billion annually in Nevada, roughly double that taken in by table games. Despite their growing popularity and an increase in overall gambling proceeds in recent years, casino operators want to win back more of the money their customers are now spending elsewhere -- on food, lodging and other entertainment, or at Indian casinos or for online gambling. 
 In the past, changing out a slot machine was a complicated operation and entailed opening it, replacing the computer chip inside, then changing the glass display that markets the game's theme. The alteration usually took a day and could cost thousands of dollars, from ordering parts to modifying the machine.
 ''Now, I just come to my office, and select the program,'' said Mr. Beltram, the 28-year-old executive director for slots at Treasure Island, which is owned by the MGM Mirage. ''With the technology, it takes 20 seconds.''
 The concept is being tested for the next few months under the gaze of state gambling regulators. If regulators approve, casino operators will be able to centrally adjust the slots to cater to different crowds -- older players and regulars during the day and younger tourists and people with bigger budgets at night.
 That could mean testing consumer confidence as well. Some critics wonder whether centrally controlled slots are not a few steps away from the distant, but instant and unchecked control enjoyed by Internet casino operators.
 Mr. Beltram insists he does not plan to capriciously change the odds, which he said would be bad for repeat business and could run afoul of regulators. 
 The development of networked slots underscores the growing convergence of gambling and technology. Slot machines, once highly mechanized, are now highly computerized; only about half the machines have actual spinning cylinders. The rest are computer-generated facsimiles that allow gamblers to play numerous animated reels at once, and induce them with the promise of bonus rounds. Gamblers now insert debit slips that track how much money they have, making the coins people once collected in buckets a distant memory.
 Coming soon are high-definition screens that will enhance the animation to keep gamblers engaged and draw bigger crowds, and even better speakers to project crisp sound right at players.
 More generally, casino operators have sought in recent years to use technology to offer new games and make a science of their business. They are experimenting with stocking blackjack tables with money chips embedded with digital tags that can automatically measure how much a gambler has wagered and on what kinds of hands.
 Casinos also are testing wireless devices that would allow people to play games like Keno and eventually blackjack while sitting in public areas, like the swimming pool.
 But these advances are raising some eyebrows. In the case of the new slot machines, regulators want to make sure the systems cannot be invaded by outsiders, while consumers want to know casino operators cannot too easily manipulate the odds, said David G. Schwartz, director for the Center for Gaming Research at the University of Nevada Las Vegas.
 ''Let's say you're playing at 2 and you're doing great and you come back at 6 and the pay tables have changed,'' Mr. Schwartz said, adding that he wondered how much latitude casino operators would have to change their returns.
 He also worries that some players could receive preferential odds if, for instance, they are high rollers, thus creating an uneven gambling field.
 By law, Nevada casinos must on average return at least 75 percent of slot machine wagers. The reality is they return more than 90 percent, casino operators say, though they do not publicize the figures. Also under the law, they cannot modify the payback percentages while someone is playing.
 State law allows them to change the odds after a machine has been idle for four minutes, and then they must not allow anyone to play the machine for four more minutes. During that time, the screen must indicate a change is being made to the game's configuration, said Travis Foley, laboratory manager for the technology division of the Nevada State Gaming Control Board, who is overseeing the Treasure Island test.
 Typically, those changes now are made in the middle of the night when there are fewer players in the casino.
 Mr. Foley said the technology ''does expedite the change'' to a new theme, wager denomination or payback percentage. ''But it's not a new capability.'' 
 For his part, Mr. Beltram said fierce competition for slot machine players would keep him from playing fast and loose with his odds. The bigger goal, he said, is to cater inexpensively to consumer demand. He cites as evidence a recent visit by a high roller from Rhode Island.
 Mr. Beltram said the gambler, who liked to play slots in the high-stakes slots room where individual wagers can go from $2 into the hundreds of dollars, requested a $25 Double Diamond slot machine. Mr. Beltram ordered the computer chip and glass plate from International Game Technology, which makes the machine, and had them in place 24 hours later.
 The lost day potentially cut into profits. If the customer had been able to play earlier, ''Who knows what he would have spent?'' Mr. Beltram said. As it turned out, the high roller returned a day later, played the new game and wound up winning money.
 But a lot of money is left on the table with low rollers as well. It's just a matter of giving them what they want when they want it, Mr. Beltram said. ''Throughout the day, there are more locals, so during the day we might have more video poker. At night, we might have more slots,'' he said. ''Customers get stuck on themes they like,'' he said, and those themes can be programmed in.
 Mr. Beltram said he expected the system to be in place by the end of this year or the beginning of next year.
 Ed Rogich, spokesman for International Gaming Technology, said a similar test was taking place at a casino operated by the Barona Indian tribe, just outside of San Diego.
 Most casinos already link their slot machines and can view their performance from a central server. The difference is that the latest advance is the first time casinos can push information out to all their machines, creating the potential for ''dumb terminals,'' as they are known outside gambling, on which the software can be modified centrally, easily and instantly.
 The concept of networked slot machines is undergoing a different kind of test down the street from Treasure Island at a casino called the Barbary Coast. There, near the front door, sits an enormous circular wheel of fortune slot machine with seats around it for nine players. In front of each player is a monitor on which they play an individualized version of the game. The twist is that a monitor in the center of the game, viewable by all, indicates which players have hit the bonus round.
 At various points, those players who have hit the bonus round -- meaning they are eligible to increase their winnings by a certain multiple -- can cause the wheel of fortune in the center to spin; whatever number lands in front of each eligible player indicates the bonus amount.
 The individual players are not affecting each other's outcomes, but the game creates a feeling of community, almost like craps players cheering for each other at the table.
 Regular slot players say they have mixed feelings about the potential for the centrally controlled games.
 Rexie Lestrange, who lives in Lodi, Calif., and was recently visiting Las Vegas on business, said she welcomed the next generation of slot machines.
 ''I liked all kinds of pictures and noises and things happening,'' she said as she sat in Treasure Island playing Lawman's Loot, a penny slot machine with a reel of video images of cowboys, trains, settlers and bags of loot. ''The old slots I don't like because they're boring.''
 But she said she did not have an opinion about the casinos using servers to change their slot machines.
 ''I just wish they would pay out more, obviously,'' she said.


CORRECTION-DATE: April 17, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Wednesday about an experiment to link slot machines in Las Vegas casinos to a central computer network misstated the number of machines being tested by the Treasure Island casino. It is 16 -- not 1,790, which is the total number of machines in the casino.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Justin Beltram, director of slot operations at the Treasure Island casino in Las Vegas, can reprogram machines with a few mouse clicks. (Photo by John Gurzinski for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Kevin and Tracy Newman, on vacation from Minnesota, tried the remotely controlled slot machines at the Treasure Island casino in Las Vegas. (Photo by John Gurzinski for The New York Times)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (93%); GAMING (92%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); BUDGETS (75%); NATIVE AMERICANS (73%); TEST MARKETING (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); COMPUTER CHIPS (71%); COMPUTER POINTING DEVICES (70%); APPROVALS (69%); ANIMATION (64%) Gambling; Casinos; Computers and the Internet; Slot Machines; Indians, American; Gambling

COMPANY: MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (66%)

ORGANIZATION: Treasure Island Casino (Las Vegas)

TICKER: MGM (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (66%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (66%)

PERSON: Justin Beltram; Matt Richtel

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (95%) NEVADA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Las Vegas (Nev)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006



267 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: The Hamas Dilemma

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
It doesn't have a sexy name yet, like ''The Six Day War,'' ''Intifada III'' or ''Suez,'' but since Israel withdrew from Gaza, a quiet little war has been going on between Israelis and Palestinians. Maybe that's what we should call it: ''The Quiet Little War.'' Or better yet, let's call it by its real name: Stupid.
 Let's see, Israel withdraws from the Gaza Strip, the Palestinians have a chance, not perfect, not ideal, but the best chance ever to build something decent of their own, without any Israeli occupation army breathing down their necks, and what are they doing? Mostly fighting each other and lobbing Qassam rockets into Israel, prompting increasingly iron-fisted Israeli retaliations. 
Even the E.U. has decided to withhold aid money to the new Hamas-led Palestinian government, and when the Europeans get tough on the Palestinians, you know they really must be acting foolishly. The E.U. said it will not give the Hamas government direct aid or money for the salaries of Palestinian public employees as long as it refuses to abide by previous Palestinian decisions to recognize Israel and renounce violence. 
 What if Israel, the U.S. and the E.U. are right on principle, but that leads to an even bigger disaster in practice? 
 What do I mean? Let's start with the principle. Democracy is not just the act of winning a free election. It involves respect for the rule of law, constitutional restraints and decisions taken by previously elected parliaments. Both the Fatah-run Palestinian Authority and the P.L.O. recognized Israel's right to exist and, at least on paper, renounced the use of force. The Hamas government has rejected both. The only way Hamas can do that democratically is by holding a new referendum and asking Palestinians to reverse these established positions. But for Hamas to unilaterally reject the positions ratified by the previous Palestinian parliament is just an arbitrary exercise of power. It would be like President Bush tearing up the Panama Canal Treaty.
 Also, a democratic government has to exercise a monopoly of force. Hamas can't ask the world to respect its democratic credentials if it, in turn, refuses to restrain Palestinian militants from attacking Israel from Gaza with rockets or suicide bombers. Hamas can't pretend it has no responsibility for ''renegade'' attacks on Israel by militias under its sovereign authority. 
 ''A terrorist organization which came to power by procedural democracy cannot be equated with a democratic government,'' said the Israeli political theorist Yaron Ezrahi. ''Every day that passes without Hamas trying to stop this barrage of rockets on Israel or to recognize the international agreements by [the former Palestinian government] is undermining the legitimacy of Hamas's election.''
 Democracy ''is not a one-night stand,'' he added. ''It is a marriage between government and people. That is why we call it a social contract. It can't just be arbitrarily changed by one side.'' In sum, the world does not have to respect Hamas as a democratic government, if Hamas does not respect these basic principles of democracy.
 So let's just starve them of money until they come to their senses, right? But what if that leads to massive unemployment in the West Bank? Sure, it's Hamas's fault, but Israel will suffer the consequences of having a desperate Palestinian population on its doorstep. Or what if starving Hamas drives it deeper into an alliance with Iran to pay its bills? Can that be in Israel's interest?
 As Nahum Barnea, one of Israel's leading columnists, pointed out to me, the Israeli public is in a ''very pragmatic'' mood when it comes to Hamas. Bibi Netanyahu focused the Likud campaign in the last election on heated charges that the Kadima Party was going to deal with Hamas, and he got creamed. Israeli voters rejected his message. The fact is, the four-year Hamas suicide campaign had a huge impact on the Israeli psyche. Israelis do not want to see it resumed. A majority of Israelis would negotiate with Hamas tomorrow if they were persuaded that Hamas would deliver a long-term cease-fire. 
 So, yes, in principle, Hamas doesn't deserve to be treated like a democratic government. But in practice, Hamas has something Israelis badly want: a cease-fire -- not recognition. Israel chose to destroy Yasir Arafat's government and got Hamas. What if it destroys Hamas? What will it get then? I don't know, but the answer is not simple. Designing the right policy to deal with a democratically elected terrorist group that deserves to be spurned but has something you want is not in the textbooks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (87%); BOMBINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); AL FATAH (77%); REFERENDUMS (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (65%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (60%) Palestinians; United States International Relations; Foreign Aid

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) Hamas; European Union

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Thomas L Friedman

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (98%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PANAMA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%) Israel

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006



268 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: 29 Are Indicted In Connection With Attacks In Madrid 

BYLINE: By RENWICK McLEAN

DATELINE: MADRID, April 11 

 BODY:
A Spanish judge indicted 29 people on Tuesday in connection with the Madrid train bombings two years ago, suggesting that the group attacked Spain for its support of the American-led invasion of Iraq and for its increasingly aggressive police investigations of Islamic radical groups. 
 The indictment, part of a long-awaited report about the attacks running nearly 1,500 pages, did not assert directly that the plotters had been motivated by anger at the policies of Spain's government. But the judge who wrote the report, Juan del Olmo, noted that the timing of the attacks, March 11, was just three days before Spain's general election.
 Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero of the Socialist Party won that election in a surprise victory and fulfilled his campaign pledge to withdraw Spanish troops immediately after taking office in April.
 Five of the men indicted Tuesday were charged with carrying out or conspiring to carry out the attacks, done with 10 strategically placed bombs that exploded on four commuter trains, killing 191 people and wounding about 1,800.
 A sixth man was accused of acting as a ''necessary collaborator,'' while the rest were charged with belonging to or aiding a terrorist group, or contributing to the attacks through support roles like providing explosives or falsifying documents.
 The trial is expected to begin next spring. 
 Judge del Olmo's report largely summarized provisional findings he had made in filings over the past two years. It asserted that the cell that carried out the attacks was made up mostly of Moroccan radicals, several with ties to Al Qaeda and to the Moroccan Islamic Combatant Group, a militant organization seeking to establish an Islamist state in Morocco.
 Spanish investigators have said that the cell came together in Spain initially under the guidance of a Syrian named Imad Eddin Barakat Yarkas, also known as Abu Dahdah, who was convicted in September by a Spanish court for conspiring to commit the Sept. 11 attacks in the United States and for leading a Qaeda cell in Spain. He was sentenced to 27 years in prison. 
 After Mr. Yarkas and several followers were arrested in 2001, investigators have said, the group reconstituted itself under the leadership of Sarhane ben Abdelmajid Fakhet, a former Tunisian graduate student in economics who in 2003 began calling for an attack on Spain in part because of its support of American policies toward Iraq. 
 There is no indication in Judge del Olmo's report that Mr. Fakhet or Jamal Ahmidan, a Moroccan identified as the operational head of the cell, had any direct links to the top leadership of Al Qaeda.
 But in explaining the major influences on the group, Judge del Olmo cited a document posted on a Web site run by Global Islamic Media Front, a group widely seen as a front for Al Qaeda.
 The document, apparently posted in late 2003, called for attacks on Spain before the general elections in March, saying they would help drive a wedge between the Spanish public, which overwhelmingly opposed the invasion of Iraq, and the government of former Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar, who supported the invasion and contributed troops.
 Judge del Olmo also suggested that the Madrid attacks were partly a response to a crackdown on Islamic radical groups by the Spanish police that began in the late 1990's. That crackdown, which included the arrest of Mr. Yarkas and the breakup of his cell in Madrid, disrupted a major logistical base for Islamic radicals in Europe, Spanish investigators say.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); JUDGES (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); SENTENCING (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); RELIGION (77%); TRAINS (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); ARRESTS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); PRISONS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOSE LUIS RODRIGUEZ ZAPATERO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (94%) SPAIN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); MOROCCO (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006



269 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: As the Ethics Panel Ossifies

 BODY:
Inert and feckless, the House ethics committee stands as a laughable oxymoron. It is a still life in partisan gridlock even as the issue of Congressional corruption captures voters' attention. Now its ranking Democrat, Alan Mollohan of West Virginia, has emerged as the latest example of the sort of shady dealings that have sent Congress plummeting in the public's estimation. News articles have disclosed that Mr. Mollohan, while unstinting in criticizing Republicans for the abuses of the Jack Abramoff scandal, has made a lucrative art form of the notorious budget ''earmarks'' by which lawmakers customize pork projects for favored constituents back home. 
 Mr. Mollohan has channeled $250 million in taxpayer money to five nonprofit organizations, all designed by him in the name of local economic development. The congressman created what looks like a patronage machine that rewards him with campaign contributions from grateful nonprofit executives who often owe their jobs to him -- one of them at a $500,000 salary paid by federal earmark.
Republican partisans, looking to counter their own ethical problems, question how in the course of just four years Mr. Mollohan managed to become a millionaire while in Congress. The lawmaker denies any corner cutting, citing legitimate investments in a soaring real estate market. But clearly Mr. Mollohan deserves immediate scrutiny -- if only Congress were up to that task. 
 Unfortunately, the ethics committee was immobilized by Republican leaders back when Representative Tom DeLay ran into trouble in 2004. It has gathered more cobwebs than courage, mired in partisan one-upsmanship. If Democrats seriously seek the anticorruption edge in the coming elections, they had better force Representative Mollohan to quit the panel. More important, both parties have little time left to show some spine and approve a vital proposal, now bottled up, to create an independent integrity office. It would have the power to investigate dicey legislative dealings and enforce standards for a Congress now in ethics denial. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SCANDALS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%) Editorials; Ethics; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: ALAN B MOLLOHAN (92%) Alan B (Rep) Mollohan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006



270 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: The Unsung Champions of a Global Crisis

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
There is no reason to smirk just because Brad Pitt is the narrator of PBS's ''Rx for Survival -- The Heroes,'' a documentary about people fighting health calamities worldwide. His humanitarian streak may be a little overexposed these days, but that shouldn't matter. It may not speak well of the American psyche, but celebrities do make a huge difference in causes as complicated as third world debt relief, global warming and stem cell research, and it would be foolish of PBS not to use movie stars to draw attention to a crisis. 
 Showcasing the drug company Merck as a major sponsor of the two-hour film seems a bit much. However much the mandate of public television has changed with the times, most viewers still expect PBS to provide programs that commercial networks are reluctant to broadcast and that are free of corporate self-interest, bias or just bad taste. Merck's credit -- a gauzy opening advertisement that vaunts the company's selfless contributions to global health under the company slogan, ''Where Patients Come First'' -- suggests all three. 
 The Merck Company Foundation inarguably does good, useful work in Africa and other stricken regions. But there is plenty of commercial time on network and cable television to make that case, and Merck has made ample use of it ever since the company got into trouble over its pain medication Vioxx. On PBS, the company's public relations agenda is all the more blatant in contrast to the more modest credit taken by the film's other main sponsor, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. That nonprofit organization merely flashed its name on the screen. 
 PBS isn't breaking the rules; since 2004, it has allowed member stations to loosen guidelines on the content of sponsors' credits, and everything from Microsoft to Chuck E. Cheese has placed advertisements on PBS that look like the ones on commercial television. But however much the end may justify the means, the line between public service and corporate self-help on public television keeps getting blurrier.
 The documentary itself seems well intentioned and untainted: PBS paid for the re-editing of material taken from a six-episode special on the global health crisis that ran in November 2005 and was underwritten by the Gates Foundation and Merck. That epic was pared down to focus on eight ''heroes,'' and wisely so. The sheer enormity of the problems, from malaria and TB to SARS and avian flu, has a way of desensitizing viewers. By highlighting a few individual efforts, the film delivers signs of progress and hope within an otherwise unfathomable landscape of death and disease. 
 The heroes include Ernest Darkoh, an African-born doctor trained in the United States, who spearheaded one of the first and most successful H.I.V. treatment programs in Botswana, an initiative partly supported by Merck. (''I think we'll lose, arguably, half the continent of Africa,'' he says, explaining his motivation.) The program also focuses on a doctor and an aid worker in Northern India who committed themselves to eradicating the last, stubborn remnants of polio through a huge vaccination program. 
 All the projects seem realistic as well as idealistic, be it supplying motorcycles equipped with sidecar stretchers to remote African villages that have no other way of transporting sick people to clinics or distributing life-saving vitamin A drops to children in South Asia. ''Rx for Survival,'' is intended not to scare viewers straight, but to make them feel that something not only must be done but can be done.
 The special is inspiring, but it is mostly recycled material and could not have cost very much to produce, which makes the plug for Merck all the more unnecessary. It may seem harsh to hold PBS, politically besieged and perennially underfinanced, to such lofty standards, but those demarcation lines are among the main reasons public television still has a loyal audience. Public television obviously cannot rely solely on government funds and pledge drives that feature Yanni and the Celtic Tenors. But they should still be able to choose sponsors whose participation in a given project is entirely above second-guessing. 
 When a drug company underwrites a documentary about health crises in which drugs, vitamins and vaccines are so obviously critical, there is a chance that viewers will wonder if there are any hidden quid pro quos. And the more those boundaries are crossed on commercial television, the more viewers crave black-and-white accountability from public stations. 
 Pandering to celebrity worship is not the problem. Mr. Pitt's distractingly handsome face is not shown, and while his is not a particularly distinctive voice for a narrator, the images and interviews with patients, scientists and aid workers speak eloquently for themselves.
 It would have been even better if they could express themselves without a message from Merck. 

Rx for Survival
The Heroes

On most PBS stations tonight; check local listings.

Narrated by Brad Pitt; Larry Klein, executive producer. Co-produced by WGBH/NOVA Science Unit and Vulcan Productions; Paula S. Apsell, senior executive producer for NOVA and director of the WGBH Science Unit; for Vulcan Productions, Paul G. Allen, chairman and executive in charge; Jody Patton, president and executive in charge.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A health worker uses a motorcycle equipped with a sidecar stretcher. (Photo by Riders for Health)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); FOUNDATIONS (87%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MALARIA (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (75%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (74%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (73%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); TUBERCULOSIS (66%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (56%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (56%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (56%) Television; Reviews 

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (95%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (95%); MRK (NYSE) (95%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (95%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

PERSON: BRAD PITT (88%) Alessandra Stanley; Brad Pitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006



271 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: A Health Fix That Is Not A Fantasy

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
email: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
TO a lot of thoughtful people, the only way to fix the health insurance crisis is to get the federal government to cover everyone. Britain, Canada, Japan and a number of other rich countries do so, and they each spend less money on health care than this country does. They also don't have major companies, like General Motors, flirting with bankruptcy in large part because of the cost of health benefits.
 It is a pretty good argument, but it has an undeniable flaw. There is almost no chance of universal coverage happening anytime in the foreseeable future. 
 Health insurers made $100 billion in profits last year, and industries of that size are just not legislated out of business, as the economist Jonathan Gruber has pointed out. The party that controls the White House and Congress also happens to oppose the idea. Republicans have their own utopian notions, which generally involve letting loose the free market for Americans to demand better care on their own.
 So the discussion has basically been paralyzed for years. In the meantime, the problem has grown worse. Forty-six million people do not have health insurance, according to the most recent estimate, up from 31 million in 1987.
 But last week, out of the blue, Massachusetts changed the terms of the debate. Gov. Mitt Romney, a Republican, and the Democratic-controlled legislature reached a deal to cover almost everyone in the state. The plan will cut the cost of health insurance for families that do not have it and make it free for many poor families. Then, just as important, the state will require every resident to have insurance or face a stiff fine. Mr. Romney is scheduled to sign the bill in Boston this morning.
 The plan breaks free of the usual ideological shackles by dealing with both of the big reasons that nearly one-sixth of the population lacks insurance. One, many people just cannot afford it. Two, some who can afford it imagine that they will not need it -- and then stick the rest of us with the bill when they end up in the emergency room. 
 LET'S start by acknowledging all the problems that Mr. Romney's big idea does not solve. It will not reduce misdiagnosis or wasteful medical spending, because hospitals will still be paid for what they do rather than how well they do it. If the plan is really going to make insurance affordable, it's also going to cost a fair bit of money, despite the boasts from the governor and legislators about cost-effectiveness.
 ''One of the biggest fallacies is that keeping people healthy will save money, and that's why we should do it,'' said Dr. Mark R. Chassin of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, who used to be New York State's health commissioner. ''That is complete baloney.''
 But keeping people healthy is, obviously, a worthy goal by itself, and society has done a remarkably good job of it over the last half-century. In the 1950's, after indoor plumbing and refrigeration had become the norm, the average American life span stopped rising, as David Cutler, a health care expert at Harvard, has noted. Some people wondered whether it had reached its limit. Instead, thanks to new medical treatments, an American born today can expect to live nine more years on average than someone born in 1950, which is a stunning amount of progress.
 But there are now new worries that the gains in life expectancy are slowing, and science isn't the reason. The fact that so many people do not have health care is, and that is the problem Massachusetts is trying to fix. 
 In the current system, the only affordable ways to get coverage are from your employer or through a government program like Medicare. If you try to buy a policy on your own, insurers will worry, rightly, that you expect to need a lot of medical care. So they charge a lot for individual plans.
 Massachusetts deals with this by pooling together all the people who are not covered through their jobs and treating them like the employees of one enormous company. The healthy will then subsidize the sick, just as they do at your job, and the policies will become cheaper.
 Still, insurance will cost thousands of dollars a year, too much for many families. So the state will pay for policies for anyone who falls under the federal poverty level -- about $20,000 a year for a family of four -- and subsidize those who make less than three times the poverty level.
 Some of the money for the new subsidies will have to come from new spending. Other funds will come from the federal government, the penalties paid by the uninsured and possibly some minimal fines assessed against companies that do not help their workers buy insurance.
 But a good chunk of the program's cost will come simply from acknowledging the obvious. Massachusetts now spends $320 million a year reimbursing hospitals for taking care of the uninsured. Soon, it will be able to spend that money helping people buy policies. ''We should require them to have insurance,'' said Mr. Gruber, a Democrat who has been advising Mr. Romney, ''because otherwise we're going to pay for it anyway.''
 I know that a lot of fans of a government-run system will find the Massachusetts solution complicated and inefficient. But the reality is that a national system will remain a fantasy as long as most employers offer health insurance. 
 Mr. Romney and the legislature have given Massachusetts companies a way to drop coverage without appearing brutish. If they do so -- if they really want to get out of the insurance business -- the debate about health care will change very quickly. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); INSURANCE (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); HOSPITALS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); GOVERNORS (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Law and Legislation; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%) David Leonhardt; George W (Pres) Bush; Mitt (Gov) Romney

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); JAPAN (92%) Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006



272 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1677 words

HEADLINE: Corning Finds Clinton Useful, And Vice Versa 

BYLINE: By MIKE McINTIRE and RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Corning Inc., one of upstate New York's largest and oldest employers, has supported Republican candidates for so long that its chairman once joked that it had not raised money for a Democrat since 1812.
 But since Hillary Rodham Clinton was elected to the Senate in 2000, Corning and its mainly Republican executives have become one of her largest sources of campaign contributions. And in that time, Mrs. Clinton has become one of the company's leading champions, delivering for it like no other Democratic lawmaker.
In April 2003, a month after Corning's political action committee gave $10,000 to her re-election campaign, Mrs. Clinton announced legislation that would provide hundreds of millions in federal aid to reduce diesel pollution, using, among other things, technology pioneered by Corning. It was one of several Congressional initiatives Mrs. Clinton has pushed that benefit the company.
 And in April 2004, Mrs. Clinton began a push to persuade the Chinese government to relax tariffs on Corning fiber optics products, inviting the Chinese ambassador to her office and personally asking President Bush for help in the matter. One month after the beginning of that ultimately successful effort, Corning's chairman, James Houghton, held a fund-raiser at his home that collected tens of thousands of dollars for her re-election campaign. 
 It is part of a senator's job description to help a major employer in his or her home state, and it is not unusual for that employer to encourage that help or to reciprocate with campaign contributions. In Mrs. Clinton's case, her alliance with Corning provides a window into how she has used her singular clout as a former first lady on behalf of new constituents in her adopted home state, and how those efforts in turn have helped her to bolster her already powerful fund-raising machine and win over previously skeptical New Yorkers. 
 Indeed, her work on behalf of Corning began even before company officials had made a single contribution to her as a senator.
 ''She's there when you need her,'' said Amo Houghton, a former Republican congressman and the brother of Corning's chairman.
 Mrs. Clinton, who is running for re-election this year, has been cultivating leaders in upstate communities like Corning, in central New York, hoping to exceed her 2000 results, including those in Republican strongholds, to demonstrate that she has appeal beyond her traditional base, Democrats and her associates say.
 Corning has proved doubly helpful on that front. The company and its employees contributed $137,000 from the time she was elected in 2000 through the end of 2005. Although it was a small portion of the $33 million the senator raised for her re-election during that time, it was the most from any single source other than MetLife -- more even than politically active Wall Street firms like Goldman Sachs. In addition, Corning twice paid for her to travel upstate to be briefed on issues important to the company and the region.
 Beyond financial support, Corning has also defended Mrs. Clinton against upstate critics. When, for instance, The Buffalo News suggested in 2003 that she was failing to win over local leaders, Corning's vice chairman, James B. Flaws, sent a letter to the paper listing ways she had helped the company and its region.
 ''She has delivered and continues to deliver for us,'' Mr. Flaws wrote.
 The Clinton-Corning alliance is so new and unexpected that John W. Loose, who retired as Corning's chief executive in 2002, after 38 years, reacted in disbelief when told of the company's contributions to her campaign after he left.
 ''No kidding?'' said Mr. Loose, who raised money for Mrs. Clinton's Republican opponent, Rick Lazio, in 2000. ''I'm really surprised to hear that. Very surprised. A lot of the executives there were Republicans. There were only a handful of Democrats.''
 Corning's support of Mrs. Clinton stands in contrast to its less enthusiastic backing of other Democrats, including New York's senior senator, Charles E. Schumer. While contributing $51,000 to Mrs. Clinton in 2004, Corning employees gave $5,000 to Mr. Schumer that year -- even though he was running and she was not. And its political action committee gave $10,000 to Mrs. Clinton's Democratic predecessor, Daniel Patrick Moynihan, during the 1990's. 
 Like her husband, Mrs. Clinton has been closely scrutinized for her aggressive fund-raising. Her spokesman said that she takes pride in helping a company that is a major employer upstate. ''A relationship that began with glass is now a bond as strong as steel,'' said the spokesman, Philippe Reines, referring to Corning's origins as a glass maker. 
 ''Corning, in upstate New York, whom I'm privileged to represent, has come through tough times and thrived,'' Mrs. Clinton said in remarks last summer at the Aspen Institute, discussing the challenges American manufacturers face.
 Corning, a Fortune 500 company, has 26,000 employees worldwide, and its major presence upstate is one of the bright spots of an economically battered region. The company makes glassware and ceramics used in fiber optics, diesel emission controls and liquid crystal displays.
 Its contributions to Mrs. Clinton often tracked her support for the company, records show. Their mutual support started small, but grew in significance, and dollars, over time.
 In early 2002, at the company's urging, Mrs. Clinton helped secure $5 million for a program that would provide federal grants to help school districts overhaul diesel-powered school buses by using a kind of ceramic-filter technology that Corning was beginning to market.
 During the 2000 Senate campaign, Corning's political action committee gave $3,000 to Mrs. Clinton, compared with $9,000 for Mr. Lazio, the Republican. But in March 2003, the company gave $10,000 to Mrs. Clinton. A month later, she announced a measure that would provide hundreds of millions of dollars in additional federal money to reduce school bus diesel emissions. 
 In another initiative, Mrs. Clinton played a key role in persuading Congress to provide millions to state and local governments to upgrade other kinds of diesel-powered vehicles, said Conrad Schneider, advocacy director for the Clean Air Task Force, a nonprofit environmental group that lobbied for the legislation along with Corning and other companies. 
 ''She was really using shoe leather, making member contact, convening meetings and that sort of thing,'' Mr. Schneider said.
 But it was Mrs. Clinton's work on the Chinese tariff dispute that helps explain why Corning might have sought her assistance to begin with. Though a junior senator, Mrs. Clinton apparently used her status as former first lady and high-profile senator not only to intercede with Chinese officials, but also to prod President Bush himself to help the company.
 The dispute began in early 2004 when the Chinese Commerce Ministry announced a preliminary decision to impose a 16 percent duty on Corning fiber optics products, saying Corning had deliberately undercut Chinese manufacturers. 
 Corning appealed to Mrs. Clinton for help, and in April 2004 she reached out to the Chinese minister of trade when he visited Washington. In a strongly worded letter, Mrs. Clinton asserted that the issue was ''of great importance to me,'' that she held Corning in ''high esteem'' and that she considered the accusations against the company ''unfair,'' according to a copy of the letter. 
 That month and the next, Corning executives contributed $46,000 to her campaign committee, campaign finance records show. 
 Next, Mrs. Clinton invited the Chinese ambassador to her Capitol Hill office, where she again stressed the issue's significance to her, said a person with direct knowledge of the exchange, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, citing the private nature of the conversation. The ambassador agreed to take that message to his superiors in Beijing, the person said. 
 Finally, in November, Mrs. Clinton pulled President Bush aside during the opening of her husband's presidential library in Arkansas to press Corning's case. ''She explained the issue and she asked the president to be personally involved,'' the person said.
 Mr. Bush told her he would look into the matter, aides to Mrs. Clinton said. The United States trade representative's office and the Department of Commerce also pressed the Chinese to lift the tariff. By December, the Chinese government had reversed its decision and lifted the duty. Corning officials credited Mrs. Clinton's work with making a difference.
 ''Her ability to reach out in Washington and outside Washington -- I mean, she's the former first lady of the United States,'' said Timothy J. Regan, the senior vice president of worldwide government affairs at Corning. ''No question that her involvement helped move things.''
 It is difficult to assess how much Mrs. Clinton influenced the Chinese. Corning took other steps to press its complaint, including hiring Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld, an influential Washington lobbying firm, which assigned a former undersecretary of commerce to the case. 
 A lawyer in China who represented Corning before the Chinese Commerce Ministry, John Yong Ren, declined to comment. 
 Former President Bill Clinton has made several visits to China since leaving office, taking part in AIDS symposiums and giving paid speeches to Chinese businesses. But Senator Clinton's aides said her husband was not involved in the Corning matter. 
 What is indisputable is that China's decision to rescind the tariff came at a critical juncture for Corning, company officials said. The collapse of the telecommunications boom of the 1990's caused Corning's revenue to drop to $3 billion in 2003, from $6.9 billion in 2000, heightening its need for new markets for its pollution control technology and fiber optics products.
 That explains why the company has become one of Mrs. Clinton's biggest supporters, Mr. Regan said.
 ''When you are down and somebody gives you a hand,'' he said, ''you have to remember that.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Corning and the Senator''Since becoming a senator, Hillary Clinton has taken a number of actions to Corning's benefit. During the same time, Corning's contributions to Mrs. Clinton have gone up.April 2003 -- Mrs. Clinton proposes legislation to reduce diesel pollution, using Corning technology.February 2004 -- Mrs. Clinton announces legislation reducing road-construction pollution, using Corning technology.June 2004 -- China imposes anti-dumping tariff on Corning optics.January 2005 -- Corning announces repeal of tariff, crediting Mrs. Clinton with helping to lobby China.CORNING'S CONTRIBUTIONS TO HILLARY CLINTON1999: $5002000: $15,0002001: --2002: $5002003: $13,5002004: $51,2502005: $71,650(Sources by Federal Election Commission
 news reports)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Finances; Air Pollution; Diesel Power; Law and Legislation 

COMPANY: CORNING INC (96%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%) Corning Inc

TICKER: GLW (NYSE) (96%); GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335921 FIBER OPTIC CABLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS327212 OTHER PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3229 PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE, NEC (96%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Mike Mcintire; Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006



273 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: At the White House, Engaging Iran With Words Over Action

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 11 

 BODY:
One of President Bush's most senior foreign policy advisers spoke with unusual candor last week about the quandary the White House faces as it tries to confront Iran.
 ''The problem is that our policy has been all carrots and no sticks,'' the adviser told a gathering of academics and outside strategists, according to members of the audience. ''And the Iranians know it.''
It is partly for that reason, other administration officials say, that President Bush and his aides see some benefits in the increasing public discussion about what the White House may do if diplomacy fails to persuade Iran to halt what they suspect is a nuclear weapons program. 
 Iran's announcement on Tuesday that it had succeeded in enriching uranium -- a significant step toward building a weapon, which most experts believe is still years away -- is bound to heighten the escalation of threats between Washington and Tehran. 
 Even before the announcement, news accounts in recent days of what airstrikes could look like, appearing in The New Yorker, The Washington Post and elsewhere, served as what one senior official called ''a reminder'' to the Iranian government and to Europe, Russia and China ''of where this could go one day.'' 
 But at the Pentagon and elsewhere in the administration, officials say the prospect of military action remains remote in the short term and highly problematic beyond that. 
 The issue remains delicate within an administration that has identified Iran as a major threat. The senior adviser who spoke candidly at last week's gathering did so only under ground rules that guaranteed him anonymity, and members of the audience reported his comments on the condition that they also not be identified. 
 ''Is it a good thing for the Iranians to think there are occasions where the U.S. would use force? Sure,'' said Eliot A. Cohen, a professor at Johns Hopkins University who directed the Air Force's definitive study of the first war against Iraq. ''But I don't get a sense that people in the administration are champing at the bit to launch another war in the Persian Gulf.'' 
 Others suggest that the vague drumbeat of talk about military action may be less aimed at Tehran than at China and Russia -- two countries that have said they oppose even the threat of economic sanctions against Iran, much less threats to set back the Iranian program by obliterating its facilities. 
 ''In Tehran, the threat of military action is double-edged,'' said Ashton B. Carter, a Harvard security expert who worked on nuclear issues in the Clinton administration. ''It may scare the leadership, but it could also cause people to rally around the leadership. Where it's most effective is showing the Russians and the Chinese that we are serious about stopping this program.''
 The question is how serious, and on that question the administration seems happy to create a strategic fog. Officials at the Pentagon say military planners are examining and updating a variety of contingencies for possible military action against Iran. But they quickly add that such updates are routine.
 On Tuesday, as the Iranians were announcing that they had successfully enriched a test amount of uranium, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld dismissed the growing tempo of reports about plans to attack Iran as a ''fantasy land'' and insisted that the administration was sticking to the diplomatic track in its dealings with Tehran. 
 Yet when asked whether he had directed the military's Joint Staff or Central Command to update or refine the contingencies the military is preparing for Iran, Mr. Rumsfeld bristled. ''The last thing I'm going to do,'' he said, ''is to start telling you or anyone else in the press or the world at what point we refresh a plan or don't refresh a plan, and why. It just isn't useful.'' 
 He said he had yet to hear expert opinion from government analysts about what Iran's declaration a few hours earlier meant.
 Mr. Rumsfeld was nearly alone among administration officials in saying anything about the issue publicly. Others throughout the government, and even some outsiders who maintain close ties to those in authority, had to be promised anonymity before they would talk about the nuances of military planning. 
 Some officials, from a range of agencies including the Defense Intelligence Agency and the Central Command, which oversees military operations in the Middle East, said there was none of the feverish planning that took place in the prelude to the Iraq war, and no indication that the White House was seeking an explanation of its military options. 
 ''The strike plans have been in place for some time,'' said one former senior Pentagon official who is in close touch with his former colleagues. 
 Tactically, eliminating Iran's nuclear sites, experts say, would require 600 to 1,000 air sorties to make sure that underground sites were destroyed. 
 Strategically, the task would be more enormous, because the United States would have to be prepared to stop Iran from interfering with oil shipments coming out of the Gulf, to cut off terrorist attacks, and to keep Iran from inciting uprisings in southern Iraq. 
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice told a foreign diplomat who visited her recently that to use military force to eliminate Iran's nuclear sites would be an extraordinarily difficult task; President Bush all but dismissed it as a near-term option to some lawmakers who, on condition of anonymity, relayed the essence of their discussion. 
 According to current and retired senior military officers and Pentagon officials, the military options against Iran range from a limited overnight strike by cruise missiles or stealth bombers aimed at nuclear-related activities, to a much larger series of attacks over several days against not only nuclear-related sites, but also other government targets, including the country's Revolutionary Guard and its intelligence headquarters. 
 Iran's large uranium-enrichment complex at Natanz, including an unfinished hall for 50,000 nuclear centrifuges that sits empty more than 50 feet underground, could be destroyed with earth-penetrating conventional bombs. Its conversion facility at Isfahan is above ground and easier to hit. 
 But senior officers warned that attacking targets in Iran would be much more difficult than the air campaign against Iraq in 2003. Iran's air defenses are more formidable. Many nuclear-related targets are dispersed across the country or buried deep underground. And United States intelligence analysts acknowledge that they do not know where all of Iran's secret nuclear-related activities are situated. 
 ''Iran poses a very difficult target set,'' said one former top officer who was involved in target planning. ''It's a bigger country, with more rugged terrain. It would be very difficult to take down.'' 
 Those officers and Pentagon officials, as well as independent military specialists, emphasized that there were no indications that airstrikes or commando attacks were imminent, and that any military action would most likely unleash a series of retaliatory strikes from Tehran. 
 ''The consequences of U.S. strikes are enormous,'' concludes a new report by Anthony H. Cordesman and Khalid R. Al-Rodhan of the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. 
 The report, released Friday, warned that Iran could retaliate by firing missiles at United States troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, by using proxy groups in Iraq to attack American soldiers there, and by sending suicide bombers to the United States.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld has dismissed speculation that the United States is planning to attack Iran. (Photo by Yuri Gripas/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); AIR FORCES (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); ARMED FORCES (65%); IRAQ WAR (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (55%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%) INDIAN OCEAN (52%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); CHINA (92%); IRAN (88%); EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006



274 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Jury Awards Punitive Damages of $9 Million In Product Liability Case Over Merck's Vioxx
A jury in Atlantic City found that the drug maker Merck had misled federal regulators about the dangers of its painkiller Vioxx and acted with wanton disregard for patients taking the drug and awarded $9 million in punitive damages in a product liability suit. [Page C1.] 


Two Wall Street Employees Charged With Insider Trading
Two junior level employees at Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch were arrested yesterday and charged in an insider trading scheme. [C1.]

Nasdaq Buys a Stake in London Stock Exchange
Nasdaq said it had bought a 15 percent stake in the London Stock Exchange, Europe's largest stock market, to expand its international profile. [C1.]

A Billionaire Buys a Majority Stake in Muhammed Ali
A media entrepreneur, Robert F. X. Sillerman, the chief executive of the entertainment company CKX, paid $50 million for an 80 percent stake in the commercial rights to Muhammed Ali's name, image and likeness. [C1.]

Corning Finds a Democratic Friend in Hillary Clinton
Corning, one of upstate New York's largest and oldest employers, has supported Republican candidates for so long that its chairman once joked that it had not raised money for a Democrat since 1812. But since Hillary Rodham Clinton was elected to the Senate in 2000, Corning and its mainly Republican executives have become one of her largest sources of campaign contributions. And in that time, Mrs. Clinton has become one of the company's leading champions. [A1.]

Casino Tests Technology That Eases Slots Alterations
A Las Vegas casino is testing technology that allows it to reprogram the 1,790 slot machines on the casino floor, adjusting the denominations required to play, payback percentages, even game themes, from a back office. The test is being watched closely by regulators. [C1.]

Enron Executive Denies Arranging Secret Deals
Jeffrey K. Skilling, testifying for a second day in the Enron fraud trial, denied that he ever arranged secret side deals known as ''bear hugs'' to enrich Andrew S. Fastow, Enron's former chief financial officer. [C3.]

China Posts Second-Highest Trade Surplus Ever
China disclosed that its trade surplus surged to $11.19 billion in March, its second-highest monthly surplus ever and a level that could feed trade frictions in advance of President Hu Jintao's visit to the United States. [C3.]

Europe Clears Boston Scientific's Purchase of Guidant
Boston Scientific said it had won clearance from the European Commission for its $27 billion acquisition of Guidant. It must still receive approval from the United States Federal Trade Commission. [C2]

First Set of Hearings on Wal-Mart Bank Plan Ends
Federal regulators wrapped up the first set of public hearings on Wal-Mart's request to open a bank, but gave scant indication of how they might rule on the company's application. [C7.]

Swiss Bank Agrees to Buy Clients From Piper Jaffray
The Swiss banking giant UBS said it had agreed to buy the United States private client network of the Piper Jaffray Companies for $500 million, expanding its wealth management business in the Midwest and the Western United States. UBS said it would integrate Piper Jaffray's financial advisers into UBS Wealth Management. The Piper Jaffray network has more than 800 financial advisers and 550 branch support personnel in about 90 retail offices. [C9.]

G.M. Plans to Sell Its 7.9% Stake in Isuzu
General Motors said it would sell the last of its large stakes in a Japanese carmaker, 7.9 percent of Isuzu Motors, for $300 million. [C3.]

MySpace.com Hires Official to Oversee Users' Safety
MySpace.com, the social networking Internet site popular with young people that has alarmed some parents and law enforcement officials concerned about sexual predators, said it was hiring a former federal prosecutor to be its first chief security officer. [C3.]

Stocks Fall as Commodity Prices Heighten Inflation Fear
Stocks tumbled as strength in the commodities market fed inflation fears and stifled investors' enthusiasm over upbeat first-quarter earnings from Alcoa. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 51.70 points, to 11,089.63. The Standard & Poor's 500 index lost 10.05 points, to 1,286.57. And the Nasdaq composite index fell 22.92 points, to 2,310.35. [C7.]

Lenovo Moving Quickly Away From I.B.M. Brand Name
Lenovo, the Chinese computer maker that bought I.B.M.'s personal computer business, has been moving faster than expected to remove the I.B.M. name from its brand-building venture, leaving many wondering if Lenovo has abandoned the I.B.M. brand too quickly. Advertising. [C9.]

Fidelity and U.S. Trust Acquire Stakes in UAL
Fidelity Investments and the U.S. Trust Corporation have become the largest investors in the UAL Corporation, the parent of United Airlines, according to regulatory filings, and they now own a fourth of the carrier. [C10.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks share prices (daily closes) of Piper Jaffray since February.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAMAGES (92%); JURY TRIALS (91%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); VERDICTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (87%); GAMING (86%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (78%); APPROVALS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); ARRESTS (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (68%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (68%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (94%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (51%); WAL-MART STORES INC (50%)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (94%); MRK (NYSE) (94%); GS (NYSE) (90%); BSX (NYSE) (51%); WMT (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (51%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (51%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (51%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (50%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); HU JINTAO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (93%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006



275 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Neighborhood Prohibitionists May Limit New Restaurants

BYLINE: By FLORENCE FABRICANT

 BODY:
AS restaurateurs have sought cool rents and hot locations, neighborhoods all over New York have become dining destinations. But the tide of development may be stemmed by a newly empowered force: the neighbors.
 Community boards in the East Village, the Lower East Side and elsewhere, fed up with noise and traffic, are so aggressively using their power to try to block or delay liquor licenses that some in the restaurant business say they are thinking much harder about opening new places in these parts of town. Profits from wine and liquor can be crucial to the success of a restaurant, especially a new one.
Warren Pesetsky, who was former general counsel to the liquor authority, and is now a partner at Pesetsky & Bookman in Manhattan, a law firm that specializes in helping clients get liquor licenses, said that he is giving different advice than he did a year ago. 
 ''I can't be as confident telling them to go ahead,'' Mr. Pesetsky said. ''It may take much longer so you have to allow for that financially, and you might try to get some contingency provisions in the lease, in case it looks like you may not get a license.''
 For the past few years Community Board 3 vehemently opposed new liquor licenses in its area of the East Village and Lower East Side, but the State Liquor Authority, which does not have to follow the board's recommendations, approved them anyway.
 Susan Stetzer, the district manager for Community Board 3, said lots of places misrepresent their intentions. ''They insist they are restaurants, not bars or clubs, and even present fancy menus to us,'' she said. ''Then within a month, they're barely serving any food and they're just noisy bars.'' The board even declared a moratorium in some areas, automatically refusing to consider any liquor license applications.
 Now the liquor authority seems to be paying more attention. It rejected a license for the restaurant European Union, a gastro-pub on East Fourth Street between Avenues A and B. And when the restaurant opened anyway, operating on a ''bring your own bottle'' basis, police officers arrived with a complaint from someone in the neighborhood to say that was illegal, according to Jason Hennings, an owner of the restaurant. (The officers in the Ninth Precinct who were involved were not available for comment. William Crowley, a spokesman for the authority, said customers cannot bring their own wine to a bar or restaurant unless it has a ''bottle club'' permit. In practice, however, this rule is rarely enforced.) 
 And soon, the situation may escalate further. 
 Last month, the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, who represents lower Manhattan, introduced a bill that would eliminate the exemptions from what is called the ''500-foot rule.'' This rule, which became part of the State Liquor Authority regulations in 1993, prohibits the granting of a new full liquor license to an establishment that is within 500 feet of three other licensed bars or restaurants. It was originally enacted because of complaints about a strip of biker bars in Queens.
 The liquor authority routinely grants exemptions ''in the public interest,'' often because a new establishment will provide jobs. So the city is filled with streets that not only have more than three restaurants with liquor licenses within 500 feet, but often 10 or more. In some neighborhoods, there are no complaints about these ''restaurant rows,'' but in others, like the East Village, there is outspoken opposition.
 The new bill, which has not yet been introduced in the state senate, would ban such exemptions unless the local community board specifically approves them.
 ''This legislation seeks to allow communities to have a somewhat greater degree of control over what is taking place in their neighborhoods,'' said Mr. Silver. 
 The New York State Restaurant Association has started lobbying against the bill. ''The number of establishments should not be the issue,'' said Melissa Fleischut, the director of government affairs for the association. ''It's the type of establishment that has to be considered, and there's no flexibility for that.'' 
 Drew Nieporent, who is an owner of five restaurants in TriBeCa, said the difficulties in getting a liquor license have already kept him from opening more restaurants. ''There's unprecedented pressure by community boards these days,'' Mr. Nieporent said.
 Jimmy Bradley, an owner of the Mermaid Inn at 96 Second Avenue in the East Village, said he had to obtain about 150 signatures from nearby residents to support his application for a license three years ago. Since it has gotten much harder, he said, ''I don't think I'll be pursuing another place down there.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: WHOSE BOTTLE? -- European Union had a B.Y.O.B. policy, but not for long. (Photo by Lars Klove for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (93%); RESTAURANTS (91%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (90%); LICENSES & PERMITS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); DEREGULATION (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); RESTAURANT INSPECTION & LICENSING (78%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); LAWYERS (74%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%) Restaurants; Alcoholic Beverages; Law and Legislation; Bars; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Restaurants

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%)

PERSON: Florence Fabricant

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (67%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006



276 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Square Feet; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: An Island Unto Itself

BYLINE: By STACEY STOWE

DATELINE: NANTUCKET, Mass. 

 BODY:
With its soda fountains, cobblestone streets and flower-brimming window boxes, Main Street in this island's downtown area seems preserved in amber. On April 4, residents voted at their annual town meeting to keep it that way, adopting a proposal to ban chain stores and franchises from the core shopping area.
 Nantucket, a historic whaling port south of Cape Cod, already had strict rules forbidding neon signs and vinyl siding on its downtown shops, but there was no prohibition on chain stores until Wendy Hudson, a local bookstore owner, proposed one.
 On the rest of the island, there is still no legal reason that Wal-Mart or another big-box retailer could not move in, and there are chain gas stations and supermarkets on the outskirts of downtown. But the new bylaw, which was cleared by the island's planning board, limits stores and restaurants in downtown to companies with fewer than 14 identical outlets and fewer than three standardized features among items like trademarks, menus or employee uniforms. 
 ''It reduces the need or desire to go places when they all look the same,'' said Ms. Hudson, who is the owner of Nantucket Bookworks and co-owner, with her husband, Randy, of Cisco Brewery, an island restaurant. ''Nantucket is a hassle to get to, it's expensive, and if, when you got there, you find the same thing at home, it reduces the experience.''
 Perhaps surprisingly, it was not the prospect of a Wal-Mart or a Dunkin' Donuts on this island -- where madras shorts and Range Rovers are summer staples -- that prompted Ms. Hudson's proposal, but rather the arrival last year of the impeccably preppy retailer Ralph Lauren in a store on Main Street.
 Mr. Lauren's company paid $6.5 million for its space, a building that once housed Nantucket Looms, a shop selling woven goods and antiques, founded in 1968 under the direction of the Nantucket Historical Trust. The Looms, now privately owned, relocated to Federal Street. The ban against chain stores will not affect Mr. Lauren's store since it will not be applied retroactively.
 The island does have a few chain stores. There is a Grand Union grocery store downtown but a special permit would be necessary if it expanded or changed hands. On the outskirts of the shopping area, there are Mobil gas stations, a Stop & Shop supermarket and a Cumberland Farms convenience market.
 Other chain stores have appeared and faded away. Several years ago, a Benetton and a Brookstone set up shop downtown but quickly closed; residents said their side street locations hampered them. The same fate befell a Crabtree & Evelyn store. For a while, a Pizza Hut sold pizzas without displaying the company logo from a shop on the wharf, but that did not last, said Andrew Vorce, director of the Nantucket Planning and Economic Development Commission.
 As for the threat that big-box stores might open elsewhere on the island, that seems rather remote. For one thing, the island's winter population is only 10,000. In addition, land prices are high. The average starter building lot is $495,000 for one-eighth of an acre, Mr. Vorce said. A 20,000-square-foot Wal-Mart would need more than two and a quarter acres, more than $9 million worth of land, to meet parking and open space requirements, he said. 
 At the annual town meeting, which began on April 3, about 500 residents considered 83 articles, ranging from zoning changes to mooring regulations. No one challenged Ms. Hudson's proposal. Indeed, many people said that after the Lauren store moved in, they feared a herd of chain stores might follow, trampling the island's charm.
 Nantucket is not the first community to ban chain stores from its downtown: Carmel, Calif.; Bristol, R.I.; and Port Townsend, Wash., are among those that have enacted similar bans.
 Chris Bonelli, 33, an artist who has lived on Nantucket for 10 years, is pleased. ''It's fine the way it is,'' he said. ''If you keep adding things, bigger houses, bigger yacht clubs, it's just going to hurt the island. And how many things do you really need, that you can't do without just because a chain store isn't here?''
 While most people shared Mr. Bonelli's relief that, say, Starbucks will not displace the Bean, a bustling coffee shop on Center Street, some had qualms about the ban.
 John Dolan, a taxi driver who has lived here two years, said he has to go off the island just to buy affordable staples like underwear and socks. ''A chain would bring prices down over all and might be open past 8 p.m.,'' he said.
 Fred Singleton, 50, a house painter who lives on a boat moored in the harbor, said: ''Nantucket is not a town any longer. It's a theme park for the rich. If you're going to have a store in the Main Street shopping district, the rents are so high, they're not going to sell $5 tube socks. It's like Rodeo Drive in Beverly Hills.''
 As much as most people here fiercely defend the island's charm and identity, no one denies that real estate is a driving force. The average home sells for $2.6 million. Downtown, rents range from $50 a square foot for leases negotiated many years ago to $100, said Jason S. Weissman, president of Boston Realty Advisors, a real estate firm with properties on the island.
 While the higher-end rents may reflect the island's rich clientele, as in other seasonal communities, Nantucket retailers have only the summer, when the population swells to 40,000, to make a profit.
 Others noted that it was not just retailers who were tempted to maximize their returns. Residents who bought their homes 30 years ago for $300,000 find it hard to resist buyers offering $3 million.
 Christine Silverstein, executive director of Sustainable Nantucket, an organization that seeks to fuel economic growth and maintain the character of the island, said, ''What you don't want to end up with is the Caribbean, where you have the rich flying in on jets and the poor who work for them in a tin shanty.''
 Many shopkeepers and residents on the island said they were worried about the next move of Stephen R. Karp, a billionaire Boston real estate developer who last year spent an estimated $75 million on cottages, inns, resorts and retail shops in Nantucket. But Mr. Karp, who as landlord to about 100 stores could clearly make more money if high-end chain stores moved in, said he supported the ban.
 ''We don't think Main Street should look like a mall,'' said Mr. Karp, who made his fortune as a mall developer. Mr. Karp said chain retailers, whom he would not identify, had approached his development firm to be on the island. 
 To spur economic development downtown, Mr. Karp, who owns a summer home here, has urged shopkeepers who lease from him to stay open until 8 p.m. and is not shy about suggesting methods of displaying merchandise.
 Peter Christiansen, 38, a plumbing contractor who has lived on Nantucket for 11 years, said it made little difference to him as a shopper that the island lacks chain stores that offer less expensive wares and food. But as a businessman, it is another matter.
 ''I pay $11 for my espresso martini,'' he said with a grin as he ate breakfast at the Bean. ''But if Home Depot came to town and everybody bought their own fixtures, I'd be hurting. I make a lot of money in markups.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The historic district of downtown Nantucket, above, is trying to stay much as it is, in an effort led by Wendy Hudson, right, the owner of a local bookstore. (Photographs by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (92%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (90%); CITIES (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); FRANCHISING (77%); CONVENIENCE STORES (77%); REFERENDUMS (77%); GAS STATIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); FAST FOOD (77%); RELOCATIONS (74%); BOOKSTORES (72%); TRADEMARK LAW (67%) Retail Stores and Trade; Referendums 

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (66%); STOP & SHOP SUPERMARKET CO (51%); PIZZA HUT INC (50%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (66%); NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (66%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (51%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (51%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (68%) Wendy Hudson; Stacey Stowe

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Nantucket (Mass)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006



277 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: 21 Immigrants Fired After Missing Work for Rally

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN RUETHLING

DATELINE: CHICAGO, April 11 

 BODY:
At least 21 Mexican immigrants have been fired from their jobs at a meatpacking company in Detroit for missing work to attend an immigration rights march last month, advocates said Tuesday. 
 ''This to me sends a very strong message that if you try to defend your rights, there are going to be sanctions against you,'' said Elena Herrada, one of several advocates trying to organize a meeting with officials of the company, Wolverine Packing, in an effort to get some of the workers rehired.
The 21 workers were fired on March 28, a day after they attended a rally that the police said drew more than 20,000 people. It was one of at least five marches and rallies in major cities that day. 
 The Detroit affiliate of the Spanish-language television network Univision reported the firings last week.
 In a statement, the general manager of Wolverine Packing, Jay Bonahoom, said a ''small number'' of the more than 350 employees at three plants in the Detroit area had requested permission to attend the march and had been allowed to miss work. Employees had been notified orally and by letters posted in the plants that they would be fired if they missed work without authorization, the statement said.
 ''Many of these issues are near and dear to our hearts and can have serious effects on our lives, but Wolverine cannot allow these issues to stop our business,'' Mr. Bonahoom said. ''When a large number of employees leave on a particular day, we cannot service our customers, and this puts all of our jobs in jeopardy.''
 One fired worker, Minerva Ramirez, 31, a native of Mexico who worked for Wolverine for almost six years, said she had told her supervisor that she planned to go to the march. But the day after the rally, Ms. Ramirez said, she was barred from entering the plant and was not allowed to speak in her defense.
 Ms. Ramirez said she hoped to return to her job as a meatpacker, which paid $10.35 an hour.
 Edith Castillo, the executive director of Latin Americans for Social and Economic Development, a social services agency in Detroit, said she knew of a handful of employees at two other businesses who had been fired after attending the march.
 ''They were trying to exercise their right to protest, their right to have a voice,'' Ms. Castillo said. ''I think we're going to see that this is just one incident of many civil rights violations that these workers have endured.''
 In Bellwood, Ill., 33 factory workers who had been fired after attending a rally in Chicago on March 10 were rehired when the Interfaith Workers' Rights Center intervened. 
 Alberto M. Benitez, a law professor and director of the immigration clinic at George Washington University's law school in Washington, said employers were dependent on labor by illegal workers who had little, if any, recourse if they were fired.
 ''There are two or three potential employees available for every one of these poor folks who were fired,'' he said. ''It's better for everyone if there is a lawful protected class of workers and not this shadowy underground army of workers that are here today, gone tomorrow.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Wolverine Packing in Detroit said employees were told to get permission before missing work. Minerva Ramirez was among those fired. (Photo by Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (89%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); RIOTS (75%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); LAWYERS (63%); LAW SCHOOLS (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); RELIGION (50%) Immigration and Refugees; Labor; Demonstrations and Riots; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

COMPANY: WOLVERINE PACKING CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Wolverine Packing (Co)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424470 MEAT & MEAT PRODUCT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS424420 PACKAGED FROZEN FOOD MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (57%); SIC5147 MEAT & MEAT PRODUCTS (57%); SIC2011 MEAT PACKING PLANTS (57%)

PERSON: Gretchen Ruethling; Jay Bonahoom

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%) MICHIGAN, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (93%); LATIN AMERICA (76%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006



278 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: 29 Are Indicted In Connection With Attacks In Madrid 

BYLINE: By RENWICK McLEAN

DATELINE: MADRID, April 11 

 BODY:
A Spanish judge indicted 29 people on Tuesday in connection with the Madrid train bombings two years ago, suggesting that the group attacked Spain for its support of the American-led invasion of Iraq and for its increasingly aggressive police investigations of Islamic radical groups. 
 The indictment, part of a long-awaited report about the attacks running nearly 1,500 pages, did not assert directly that the plotters had been motivated by anger at the policies of Spain's government. But the judge who wrote the report, Juan del Olmo, noted that the timing of the attacks, March 11, was just three days before Spain's general election.
 Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero of the Socialist Party won that election in a surprise victory and fulfilled his campaign pledge to withdraw Spanish troops immediately after taking office in April.
 Five of the men indicted Tuesday were charged with carrying out or conspiring to carry out the attacks, done with 10 strategically placed bombs that exploded on four commuter trains, killing 191 people and wounding about 1,800.
 A sixth man was accused of acting as a ''necessary collaborator,'' while the rest were charged with belonging to or aiding a terrorist group, or contributing to the attacks through support roles like providing explosives or falsifying documents.
 The trial is expected to begin next spring. 
 Judge del Olmo's report largely summarized provisional findings he had made in filings over the past two years. It asserted that the cell that carried out the attacks was made up mostly of Moroccan radicals, several with ties to Al Qaeda and to the Moroccan Islamic Combatant Group, a militant organization seeking to establish an Islamist state in Morocco.
 Spanish investigators have said that the cell came together in Spain initially under the guidance of a Syrian named Imad Eddin Barakat Yarkas, also known as Abu Dahdah, who was convicted in September by a Spanish court for conspiring to commit the Sept. 11 attacks in the United States and for leading a Qaeda cell in Spain. He was sentenced to 27 years in prison. 
 After Mr. Yarkas and several followers were arrested in 2001, investigators have said, the group reconstituted itself under the leadership of Sarhane ben Abdelmajid Fakhet, a former Tunisian graduate student in economics who in 2003 began calling for an attack on Spain in part because of its support of American policies toward Iraq. 
 There is no indication in Judge del Olmo's report that Mr. Fakhet or Jamal Ahmidan, a Moroccan identified as the operational head of the cell, had any direct links to the top leadership of Al Qaeda.
 But in explaining the major influences on the group, Judge del Olmo cited a document posted on a Web site run by Global Islamic Media Front, a group widely seen as a front for Al Qaeda.
 The document, apparently posted in late 2003, called for attacks on Spain before the general elections in March, saying they would help drive a wedge between the Spanish public, which overwhelmingly opposed the invasion of Iraq, and the government of former Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar, who supported the invasion and contributed troops.
 Judge del Olmo also suggested that the Madrid attacks were partly a response to a crackdown on Islamic radical groups by the Spanish police that began in the late 1990's. That crackdown, which included the arrest of Mr. Yarkas and the breakup of his cell in Madrid, disrupted a major logistical base for Islamic radicals in Europe, Spanish investigators say.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); JUDGES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); SENTENCING (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); RELIGION (77%); TRAINS (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); ARRESTS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); PRISONS (69%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Bombs and Explosives; Railroads

PERSON: JOSE LUIS RODRIGUEZ ZAPATERO (58%) Renwick Mclean; Juan (Judge) Del Olmo

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (95%) SPAIN (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); MOROCCO (79%); SYRIA (79%) Spain; Iraq; Madrid (Spain)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006



279 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; ON EDUCATION; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: A District Coming to Terms With the American Swirl

BYLINE: By Samuel G. Freedman. 
E-mail: sgfreedman@nytimes.com

DATELINE: GREENWICH, Conn. 

 BODY:
VALENTINA PEREDA was sitting in the cafeteria of Greenwich High School here on the Friday morning of Feb. 3, counting down the last minutes of a study period she didn't need, complaining to her friends from English class that she wished something exciting would happen. Just then, she caught sight of several security guards dashing past her chair. ''Oh, my God,'' she heard someone crying out. ''Oh, my God.''
 The guards were chasing two boys who had been arguing over rights to a particular table and who decided to head outside for some physical resolution. While the subject of their dispute was almost boringly ordinary, the demographics made it more volatile than a typical teenage beef. One boy was white, the other Hispanic, and they were part of a high school growing diverse in ways that defy the horsy-set image of Greenwich. 
Indeed, the fight that day did not just disrupt Valentina's complacency. It also became a marker in how one suburb can respond to both the opportunities and challenges of increased integration and immigration.
 Even as Greenwich remains one of the wealthiest communities of its size (61,000) in the country, with a median household income of nearly $100,000, and even if it has such a concentration of money and privilege that a burglary ring once used the Social Register to select its victims, the public schools have grown racially, ethnically and economically varied.
 Stereotypes aside, Greenwich High School now stands at 22 percent nonwhite, with students from 54 foreign countries as far-flung as Turkey, South Africa and Nepal. (The nonwhite figure in superficially comparable school districts like Wilton and New Canaan is roughly 5 percent.) Greenwich High's largest influx has come from Central and South America. 
 The number of Hispanic students in the school this year, 392, has more than doubled from 188 in 1993. 
 Many of those families live in the working-class district of Byram that a century ago was home to Greenwich's earlier version of diversity -- Italians, Slovaks, Poles -- or in the public housing projects that initially housed many African-Americans. Like all of those groups, the Hispanics have been drawn here by ample work in service to the affluent as cooks, maids, landscapers and construction workers.
 Valentina Pereda, 18, embodies the powerful forces of transformation. 
 Born in New York to a Venezuelan mother, she divided her childhood between Brooklyn and Venezuela, with a brief stay during elementary school with an aunt in Greenwich. 
 She returned here in the fall of 2004, sharing an apartment with her mother and aunt, who both worked as hairdressers to support the household, as well as two younger cousins. In the intervening months, they have moved seven times, driven out by rising rents, filthy conditions or exploitative landlords.
 Amid all the personal upheaval, she has thrived in the high school. She represented Greenwich at American Legion Girls State last summer and has won a scholarship to Union College in Schenectady, N.Y. 
 Yet as the president of a Hispanic student group, the Vision Club, she also knows well the Latino classmates who ride bikes to school instead of BMW's, who hold after-school jobs as stock boys or baby sitters, who will not be able to openly or affordably attend college because as illegal immigrants they cannot be officially employed or receive in-state tuition. 
 All of which has given Valentina a sharp appreciation of the dizzying demographic range in the high school, the range that in certain ways was made manifest in the February incident. 
 ''I like to think everything happens for a reason,'' Valentina said in an interview last week. ''The school is great, but there is a level of ignorance, from both whites and Latinos. There was a hidden tension. You can tell how radically different the lifestyles are. You'll hear a white kid say to a Latino kid, 'Hey, when's your father coming over to mow the lawn?' And the hard part is, it's true. It's a true statement. But nobody wants to admit it. So maybe this has been a wake-up call for diversity.''
 Certainly, the school has been stirred into action. At the most basic level, the students involved in the fight were suspended, and the existing force of security guards has been augmented by a plainclothes police officer specializing in youth issues. 
 Because the officer must be armed, under police regulations, a controversy has arisen in Greenwich over his placement in the school. 
 But that issue is really separate from the larger one of how a vanilla suburb, to use the funk musician George Clinton's famous phrase, adapts to being part of the American swirl.
 ''This was a teachable moment,''' said Alan Capasso, the headmaster, as the principal is formally known. ''We needed to build on the teachable moment.''
 IN the aftermath of the fight, when wild rumors were flying of Hispanic gangs planning drive-by shootings in retaliation, Mr. Capasso sent student volunteers like Valentina into homerooms to conduct wide-ranging discussions on the reasons for the racial friction and the ways to solve it.
 One result is that the school now is festooned with signs listing what to ''start doing'' (respecting one another, being open to differences) and what to ''stop doing'' (name-calling, rumors, blowing events out of proportion). 
 An existing program that teaches students about damage caused by stereotyping, which has been required only of freshmen, will be extended next year to those in all grades.
 The fight has also added some immediacy to Greenwich's earlier efforts to close the racial gap in academic achievement. 
 While the high school has met the federal requirements under the No Child Left Behind law in all categories -- including breakdowns by race and for students in special education and bilingual classes -- Hispanic students were less likely than those from any other racial group to even take the SAT. Their average score on the college admission test lags about 150 points behind the district average of 1130.
 Mr. Capasso acknowledged that to close that gap, Hispanic students needed to be recruited in greater numbers for honors and advanced-placement classes.
 Of the effect of the efforts so far, Valentina said: ''It's not like everyone's being friends and merging. The school's still cliquish. But the comments have vanished and people are minding their own business. And I guess that's better.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David Suter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (88%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); RACE & RACISM (74%); FAMILY (74%); AFFLUENT MARKET (74%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (67%); IMMIGRATION (66%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (66%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (66%); RENTAL PROPERTY (65%); PUBLIC HOUSING (65%); CONSTRUCTION (60%) Education and Schools; Minorities (US); Teachers and School Employees; Hispanic-Americans; Assaults; Education and Schools

PERSON: Samuel G Freedman; Valentina Pereda

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%) Greenwich (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006



280 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Shares Drop as Commodity Prices Stoke Inflation Fears 

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks tumbled yesterday as strength in the commodities market fed inflation fears and stifled investors' enthusiasm over upbeat first-quarter earnings from Alcoa.
 Although Alcoa's better-than-expected profit gave Wall Street confidence about the coming earnings season, traders were concerned that higher energy and commodities prices would cut into corporate profits and drive up costs for materials.
 The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 51.70 points, or 0.46 percent, to 11,089.63, its lowest close since March 13. The broader stock indicators also declined. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 10.03 points, or 0.77 percent, to 1,286.57 -- also a one-month low. The Nasdaq composite index fell 22.92 points, or 0.98 percent, to 2,310.35. 
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies lost 10.84, or 1.44 percent, to 742.11.
 Bond prices rebounded from last week's plunge. By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note rose 7/32, to 96 23/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, slipped to 4.92 percent from 4.95 percent on Monday. The dollar was mostly lower against most major currencies.
 Gold for June delivery settled down $6.34 at $593.41 an ounce on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Earlier in the day, it rose to a new 25-year high of $608.40 an ounce, exceeding a high of $603.10 from Friday. 
 Crude oil futures pushed higher as traders awaited news about Iran's nuclear arms program and violence in Nigeria. A barrel of light crude gained 24 cents, to $68.98, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
 According to a forecast from the Energy Department, retail gasoline prices will average about 25 cents more a gallon than last summer, but the agency said that the increase should not stifle demand. Gasoline futures gained 4.5 cents, to $2.054 a gallon in New York.
 Shares of Alcoa, the aluminum producer, rose $1.26, to $34.09, as the company announced that it had more than doubled its profit on strong metal prices and robust demand from manufacturers. The company earned 69 cents a share, beating analyst estimates of 51 cents. 
 Bausch & Lomb, the eye care company, sank $8.41, to $49.03, after it halted shipments of a contact lens solution linked to an eye infection that can cause temporary blindness. 
 General Motors shares slipped 18 cents, to $19.22, after it announced that it was selling its 7.9 percent stake in the Japanese truck maker Isuzu for about $300 million to help finance its turnaround plan. 
 Piper Jaffray jumped $5.90, to $61.10, after the Swiss banking firm UBS said it had agreed to pay $500 million for Piper's United States network of private-client branches. UBS dropped $1.67, to $110.50.
 Declining issues led advancers by more than 3 to 1 on the New York Stock Exchange, where preliminary consolidated volume of 2.28 billion shares topped the 1.94 billion shares that changed hands on Monday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of four-week Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.646
High Rate: 4.540
Coupon Yield: 4.619
Low Rate: 4.500
Median Rate: 4.525
Total applied for: $32,284,626
Accepted: $12,038,201
Noncompetitive: $355,528
The four-week bills mature May 11, 2006.



 (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Dow minute-by-minute''Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average from 10 a.m. till 4 p.m. yesterday.(Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); METALS MARKETS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BASE METALS MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); FUTURES (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); CURRENCIES (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); GASOLINE (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (73%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (73%); AUTOMAKERS (66%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (65%); OPHTHALMIC PHARMACEUTICALS (64%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (94%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (94%); AA (NYSE) (94%); GM (NYSE) (51%); PJC (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (94%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (94%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%); NIGERIA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006



281 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Gives Bilingual Welcome to the Latin Grammys

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

 BODY:
Two weeks ago, for the announcement of a hip-hop awards show, he was ''Mike B,'' and City Hall was his ''crib.'' This time, he was ''el Senor Salsa.''
 At a bilingual news conference at City Hall yesterday that featured his somewhat tortured Spanish, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced that the Latin Grammy Awards would be coming to New York for the first time. The awards are to be held on Nov. 2 at Madison Square Garden and broadcast live by the Univision television network. 
''On the streets of our city you can hear the entire scale of Latin music,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''From Mexican norteno to contemporary salsa to reggaeton to Latin jazz -- one of our great contributions to the world of music -- we're home to an incredible tradition.''
 Surrounded by members of his administration, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, representatives of the Latin Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences and the Latin music stars Willie Colon, Johnny Pacheco and India -- who pumped her fist and cheered quietly throughout the mayor's speech -- Mr. Bloomberg said that like the Country Music Association Awards last November, and the VH1 Hip Hop Honors and MTV Video Music Awards later this year, the Latin Grammys would show off New York as ''the world's second home'' and a prime stage for major media events.
 ''Hay solamente un Nueva York'' (''There is only one New York''), Mr. Bloomberg said, signing a pair of bongo drums with a black marker to commemorate the occasion.
 First held in 2000, the Latin Grammys have been presented in Los Angeles and Miami, and Mr. Bloomberg said that NYC Big Events, a city office that tries to bring high-profile shows and contests to the city, had been after the Latin Grammys for three years.
 As with the 39th annual Country Music Awards last fall, there will be a week of activities building up to the Latin Grammys, including concerts and retail and restaurant specials, Mr. Bloomberg said. The event will generate $30 million for city businesses, according to an estimate by the city's Economic Development Corporation. 
 Last year's country awards show received mixed reviews, with some critics calling it an awkward alliance that was unlikely to have a long-lasting effect on either country music or New York City. But it drew a large television audience: an estimated 18.39 million watched its broadcast on CBS, according to Nielsen Media Research.
 The Latin Grammys have had a rocky history -- plans to stage the show in Miami in 2001 were scrapped over fears of protests from Cuban-Americans who objected to its recognition of what they called pro-Castro Cuban singers and musicians -- and its ratings have been erratic. Inaugurated amid the Latin-pop trend that first brought Ricky Martin and Marc Anthony to the mainstream, the show's first broadcast had nearly 7.5 million viewers, still its highest audience. 
 Last year, after its network audience dropped to 3.25 million, the show went from CBS to Univision, which expanded it to three hours from two and broadcast it entirely in Spanish. It had a ratings spike, climbing to 5.07 million, according to Nielsen. 
 The show is to be broadcast to 100 countries around the world. 
 The nominees for the awards are to be announced in New York on Sept. 26. Gabriel Abaroa, the president of the Latin recording academy, said at the news conference that a host had not yet been chosen for the show. But Mr. Bloomberg quickly added, ''It will really depend on how well my Spanish is.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: With the president of the Latin Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences, Gabriel Abaroa, beside him, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg autographed a pair of bongo drums at City Hall yesterday. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (92%); MUSIC (91%); MULTILINGUALISM (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); CITIES (90%); COUNTRY MUSIC (89%); MAYORS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MUSIC GENRES (78%); NETWORK TELEVISION (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); JAZZ & BLUES (76%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (75%); POP & ROCK (74%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%) Music; Awards, Decorations and Honors; Latin Grammy Awards; Madison Square Garden

COMPANY: NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (60%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNTRY MUSIC ASSOCIATION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%); FIDEL CASTRO (50%) Ben Sisario; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006



282 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: A Speech on the Economy, for 2006 or 2008? 

BYLINE: By ANNE E. KORNBLUT

DATELINE: CHICAGO, April 11 

 BODY:
Mapping out broad economic principles that could form the basis of a presidential campaign, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton argued on Tuesday night that it was time for new thinking about globalization, increased focus on the middle class and a renewed investment in energy research, education and health care.
 Mrs. Clinton did not, in her 57-minute speech to the Economic Club of Chicago, assail President Bush by name. Indeed, Mrs. Clinton repeatedly emphasized her conservative credentials and alliances, and she blamed the sharp partisan fighting in Washington for dissuading business leaders from working with government. 
But in a series of observations about the current economic climate -- that wages have stagnated while profits have soared; that deficits are threatening future innovation; that health care costs have become burdensome for the middle class -- Mrs. Clinton made the case that the country's economy had suffered in recent years under Mr. Bush's leadership.
 The speech bore all the hallmarks of an opening salvo in the 2008 race, and as such, quickly drew rebukes from senior Republicans who have come to view her as the inevitable presidential front-runner.
 ''We can't be secure without a strong economy, and we cannot sustain our deepest values without an economy that rewards hard work,'' Mrs. Clinton told the crowd of Chicago business leaders. ''Too much of what you hear coming out of Washington these days is either defeatist, or denial, or happy talk.''
 The event capped a full day of Clinton political activity in Chicago, as former President Bill Clinton addressed a biotechnology convention and Mrs. Clinton headlined a fund-raising event here for Bob Casey Jr., a Senate candidate in Pennsylvania.
 Yet in a continued effort to keep public attention on Mrs. Clinton's substantive work, Mr. Clinton closed off his lunch speech to the general news media, then flew back to Washington before his wife's address.
 That left the spotlight on Mrs. Clinton's speech on the economy, which had been billed as a highlight of her month, at least.
 On trade, Mrs. Clinton said both parties had fallen into ''stagnant thinking,'' saying that ''you're either a die-hard free-trader or an unreconstructed protectionist.'' Rather than fit into either category, Mrs. Clinton proposed doing substantial research into trade agreements as they are negotiated and implemented to measure their success.
 It was Mrs. Clinton's remarks on the middle class, and on the working poor, that drew the most applause. ''America did not build the greatest economy in the world because we had rich people,'' she said. ''Nearly any society has some of those. We built the greatest economy in the world -- and most of us are beneficiaries of it -- because we built the American middle class.''
 ''If we don't send a signal that we are all in this together, the character of America will change,'' she said.
 Despite her failed efforts to restructure the health care system during her husband's first term -- she acknowledged to the audience that she still had ''the scars from having dealt with health care some years ago'' -- Mrs. Clinton said it was time to try again.
 And she dwelled on the subject of energy dependence.
 Mrs. Clinton called for a national research bureau into energy independence and said that oil companies should contribute some of their record profits into such work. ''We need a national energy strategy that is more than a line in the State of the Union,'' she said.
 Republicans -- responding to Mrs. Clinton's speech before it began, based on a preview interview she had given the day before -- attacked the New York senator for criticizing the economy at a time when unemployment levels are low. ''She simply has no ground to stand on,'' House Speaker Dennis Hastert, a Republican, said in a statement.
 Yet the purpose of the address, according to people close to Mrs. Clinton, was not to pick a political fight so much as to begin laying down markers of her substantive views.
 The effort was reminiscent of what her husband did in the years before he ran for president: In 1991, Mr. Clinton delivered a trio of lectures at Georgetown University in which he laid out, in some detail, his views on foreign and domestic issues.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, who spoke for almost an hour, addressing the Economic Club of Chicago yesterday. (Photo by Joshua Lott/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (72%); ENERGY RESEARCH (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%) Presidential Election of 2008; United States Economy; Election Issues; Primaries

ORGANIZATION: Economic Club of Chicago

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BOB CASEY (58%) Anne E Kornblut; Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006



283 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: Bar for Arresting Stern Is High, Experts Say

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM

 BODY:
Federal authorities investigating Jared Paul Stern, the New York Post Page Six contributor, would have to overcome several hurdles before arresting him, including getting approval from the United States attorney general, legal experts and people who have been briefed on the case said yesterday.
 But the requirement that the attorney general approve any arrest, and several other unusual issues facing the authorities because Mr. Stern was a member of the news media, do not mean that charges against him are unlikely, said the people briefed on the case, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the investigation is ongoing. 
Mr. Stern has been accused of seeking to extort money from a California billionaire, Ronald W. Burkle, who secretly recorded more than three hours of meetings with the gossip reporter on March 22 and March 31 held in the businessman's Manhattan loft. During the meetings, a heavily edited recording of which was provided to The New York Times by a person who had a complete copy, Mr. Stern asked for $220,000 and suggested that he could help Mr. Burkle manage the problem he was having with Page Six.
 Mr. Stern has said that he was seeking investment in his fledging clothing company and that the request was taken out of context. Lawyers for Mr. Burkle have characterized it as a bald extortion bid. They have handed over the tapes to the F.B.I. and to federal prosecutors in Manhattan.
 The agents and prosecutors have been reviewing the tapes to determine whether Mr. Stern might be charged with extortion, or mail or wire fraud under a section on ''theft of honest services,'' the people briefed on the case said.
 In a strange twist to the already strange case, The Post would be considered the victim under that statute, which makes it a crime for Mr. Stern to seek money from Mr. Burkle in exchange for the promise of keeping gossip items about him out of Page Six, depriving the newspaper of his honest services.
 If prosecutors do decide to seek charges against Mr. Stern, they must write a memo to the attorney general, Alberto R. Gonzales, seeking his approval, a requirement under the Justice Department's internal guidelines for United States attorneys. The section of the guidelines dealing with subpoenaing members of the news media, as well as interrogating and arresting them, would also require Mr. Gonzales's approval to question Mr. Stern or subpoena any of his colleagues, and this has also slowed the investigation, the people briefed on the case have said.
 The guidelines include a policy statement that says they were put in place to help ensure freedom of the press.
 To charge Mr. Stern under the extortion law, prosecutors would have to prove that he threatened Mr. Burkle with economic harm. Under the theft of honest services section, they would have to show that he acted dishonestly in the performance of his duties because he had some personal financial stake in doing so, and that it would have ''foreseeable economic harm'' to his employer.
 ''Both of these theories have hurdles,'' said Alan Vinegrad, a former United States attorney in Brooklyn who is now a partner at Covington & Burling.
 On extortion, he said, prosecutors would have to show that Mr. Burkle would be injured economically, as opposed to suffering embarrassment or harm to his reputation. On fraud, the government would have to show that it was foreseeable to Mr. Stern that his failure to write stories about Mr. Burkle's actions could cause some economic harm to The Post. ''If all that happens is they don't run another salacious story on Page Six, can they prove economic harm as a result?'' Mr. Vinegrad asked.
 A Post spokesman, Howard Rubenstein, said that no reporters had been subpoenaed or questioned. Mr. Stern, who has consistently denied wrongdoing, said that he had not been questioned. Mr. Stern's lawyer, Joseph Tacopina, has said his client is the victim of ''a fallacious smear campaign.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (92%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); EXTORTION (90%); ARRESTS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); SUBPOENAS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%) News and News Media; Freedom of the Press; Extortion and Blackmail; Millionaires and Billionaires; Gossip

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%) New York Post

PERSON: RON BURKLE (89%); ALBERTO GONZALES (57%) William K Rashbaum; Jared Paul Stern; Ronald W Burkle

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006



284 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: China's Trade Surplus With U.S. Surged in March

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, April 11 

 BODY:
China disclosed Tuesday that its trade surplus surged to $11.19 billion in March, its second-highest monthly surplus ever and a level that could feed trade frictions in advance of President Hu Jintao's visit to the United States next week.
 The surplus more than doubled over March of last year on soaring exports and slowing growth in imports, and nearly matched China's record monthly trade surplus of $12.02 billion, set last October. 
The March figures were especially significant because China usually runs only modest surpluses or even deficits in the first quarter. In the second quarter, factories step up their shipments to the United States and Europe of things like toys and DVD players, in preparation for the holiday retail season. 
 President Hu is scheduled to visit Seattle and then Washington during a four-day visit starting April 18, and China's trade and currency are likely to be issues. The visit was a factor in China's agreement, announced Tuesday, to crack down on copyright piracy of American computer programs and to lift a ban on American beef. The Bush administration said the Chinese pledged to require that computers use legal software and to close optical disk plants that are producing pirated CD's and DVD's.
 In Washington, the Treasury Department is in the final stages of deciding whether to accuse China of manipulating the value of its currency -- keeping the yuan artificially cheap to maintain the competitiveness of Chinese exports despite rising wages and raw material costs in China.
 The yuan was trading at 8.0087 to the dollar in late-afternoon trading in Shanghai on Tuesday, and is widely expected by traders to ease through the psychologically important level of 8 to the dollar before President Hu completes his trip to the United States. China revalued the yuan by 2.1 percent against the dollar last July 21, and it has appreciated an additional 1.27 percent since then.
 Larry M. Wortzel, the chairman of the United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission, which was created by Congress to monitor and report on the bilateral relationship, said that the political impact of the latest trade figures might be limited. ''It's a good time for them to release those numbers because Congress just went out on a two-week break, and domestically the nation is transfixed with immigration reform,'' he said.
 Jing Ulrich, the chairwoman of China equities at J. P. Morgan Securities (Asia Pacific), said the profitability of Chinese exporters had slumped in the last year because of higher costs for wages and materials together with the refusal of American retailers to pay higher prices. ''There is a lot of pressure on Chinese manufacturers,'' she said. 
 China released only its totals for exports, imports and the trade balance during March, and did not reveal details of trade by country or by product. Exports rose 28.2 percent from a year earlier, to $78.05 billion, while imports climbed 21.3 percent, to $66.86 billion.
 State-owned news media in China have been strongly critical as the European Union and the United States have stepped up their criticisms of Chinese trade policies, most recently by making preparations to file with the World Trade Organization a challenge to Chinese tariffs on imported auto parts. ''It is not an overstatement to claim that the country has become the world's largest victim of protectionism,'' the official China Daily newspaper said on Monday.
 With the approach of President Hu's visit, Chinese officials and state-owned media have been blaming American restrictions on the export of technology with potential military applications for their country's bilateral deficits with the United States.
 Karan K. Bhatia, a deputy United States trade representative who used to be the deputy under secretary of commerce responsible for administering the export control rules, denied in a telephone interview on Friday that the rules had a discernible effect on American exports to China.
 The value of contracts blocked by the rules is ''in the millions of dollars, not even the tens of millions,'' he said, adding that, ''This is as red a herring as they come.''
 Chinese textile and apparel exports have captured the greatest attention over the last year, mainly because China agreed to special rules when it joined the World Trade Organization in 2001. Those rules have allowed the United States and the European Union to restrict their imports of Chinese goods even though quotas on other countries' shipments were lifted at the start of last year.
 But detailed Chinese trade data for the first two months of this year showed that Chinese exports were climbing briskly for a wide range of goods, with cellphones and television sets showing especially large percentage increases. 
 Because of differences in recordkeeping, China calculates that its exports to the United States exceed imports by three to one, while the United States puts the ratio at six to one.
 American customs officials count Chinese shipments that go by truck from mainland China to Hong Kong for shipment to the United States as goods coming from China. Chinese customs officials count the same goods as exports to Hong Kong, a simpler approach that allows China to release trade statistics quickly, and also tends to show that China has a smaller trade surplus with the United States and a large surplus with Hong Kong.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers in Beijing prepare goods for export. The figures China released for March did not reveal details of its trade by country or by product. Exports rose 28.2 percent from a year earlier, to $78.05 billion. (Photo by Elizabeth Dalziel/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); CD & DVD DRIVES (74%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (74%); BEEF (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); MEATS (71%); RETAILERS (69%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (69%); COPYRIGHT (67%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (67%); IMMIGRATION (60%); IMMIGRATION LAW (60%) International Trade and World Market; Politics and Government; United States International Relations; Currency

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (51%); JPM (LSE) (51%); 8634 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (91%) Hu Jintao (Pres); Larry Wortzel; Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006



285 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: At the White House, Engaging Iran With Words Over Action

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 11 

 BODY:
One of President Bush's most senior foreign policy advisers spoke with unusual candor last week about the quandary the White House faces as it tries to confront Iran.
 ''The problem is that our policy has been all carrots and no sticks,'' the adviser told a gathering of academics and outside strategists, according to members of the audience. ''And the Iranians know it.''
It is partly for that reason, other administration officials say, that President Bush and his aides see some benefits in the increasing public discussion about what the White House may do if diplomacy fails to persuade Iran to halt what they suspect is a nuclear weapons program. 
 Iran's announcement on Tuesday that it had succeeded in enriching uranium -- a significant step toward building a weapon, which most experts believe is still years away -- is bound to heighten the escalation of threats between Washington and Tehran. 
 Even before the announcement, news accounts in recent days of what airstrikes could look like, appearing in The New Yorker, The Washington Post and elsewhere, served as what one senior official called ''a reminder'' to the Iranian government and to Europe, Russia and China ''of where this could go one day.'' 
 But at the Pentagon and elsewhere in the administration, officials say the prospect of military action remains remote in the short term and highly problematic beyond that. 
 The issue remains delicate within an administration that has identified Iran as a major threat. The senior adviser who spoke candidly at last week's gathering did so only under ground rules that guaranteed him anonymity, and members of the audience reported his comments on the condition that they also not be identified. 
 ''Is it a good thing for the Iranians to think there are occasions where the U.S. would use force? Sure,'' said Eliot A. Cohen, a professor at Johns Hopkins University who directed the Air Force's definitive study of the first war against Iraq. ''But I don't get a sense that people in the administration are champing at the bit to launch another war in the Persian Gulf.'' 
 Others suggest that the vague drumbeat of talk about military action may be less aimed at Tehran than at China and Russia -- two countries that have said they oppose even the threat of economic sanctions against Iran, much less threats to set back the Iranian program by obliterating its facilities. 
 ''In Tehran, the threat of military action is double-edged,'' said Ashton B. Carter, a Harvard security expert who worked on nuclear issues in the Clinton administration. ''It may scare the leadership, but it could also cause people to rally around the leadership. Where it's most effective is showing the Russians and the Chinese that we are serious about stopping this program.''
 The question is how serious, and on that question the administration seems happy to create a strategic fog. Officials at the Pentagon say military planners are examining and updating a variety of contingencies for possible military action against Iran. But they quickly add that such updates are routine.
 On Tuesday, as the Iranians were announcing that they had successfully enriched a test amount of uranium, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld dismissed the growing tempo of reports about plans to attack Iran as a ''fantasy land'' and insisted that the administration was sticking to the diplomatic track in its dealings with Tehran. 
 Yet when asked whether he had directed the military's Joint Staff or Central Command to update or refine the contingencies the military is preparing for Iran, Mr. Rumsfeld bristled. ''The last thing I'm going to do,'' he said, ''is to start telling you or anyone else in the press or the world at what point we refresh a plan or don't refresh a plan, and why. It just isn't useful.'' 
 He said he had yet to hear expert opinion from government analysts about what Iran's declaration a few hours earlier meant.
 Mr. Rumsfeld was nearly alone among administration officials in saying anything about the issue publicly. Others throughout the government, and even some outsiders who maintain close ties to those in authority, had to be promised anonymity before they would talk about the nuances of military planning. 
 Some officials, from a range of agencies including the Defense Intelligence Agency and the Central Command, which oversees military operations in the Middle East, said there was none of the feverish planning that took place in the prelude to the Iraq war, and no indication that the White House was seeking an explanation of its military options. 
 ''The strike plans have been in place for some time,'' said one former senior Pentagon official who is in close touch with his former colleagues. 
 Tactically, eliminating Iran's nuclear sites, experts say, would require 600 to 1,000 air sorties to make sure that underground sites were destroyed. 
 Strategically, the task would be more enormous, because the United States would have to be prepared to stop Iran from interfering with oil shipments coming out of the Gulf, to cut off terrorist attacks, and to keep Iran from inciting uprisings in southern Iraq. 
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice told a foreign diplomat who visited her recently that to use military force to eliminate Iran's nuclear sites would be an extraordinarily difficult task; President Bush all but dismissed it as a near-term option to some lawmakers who, on condition of anonymity, relayed the essence of their discussion. 
 According to current and retired senior military officers and Pentagon officials, the military options against Iran range from a limited overnight strike by cruise missiles or stealth bombers aimed at nuclear-related activities, to a much larger series of attacks over several days against not only nuclear-related sites, but also other government targets, including the country's Revolutionary Guard and its intelligence headquarters. 
 Iran's large uranium-enrichment complex at Natanz, including an unfinished hall for 50,000 nuclear centrifuges that sits empty more than 50 feet underground, could be destroyed with earth-penetrating conventional bombs. Its conversion facility at Isfahan is above ground and easier to hit. 
 But senior officers warned that attacking targets in Iran would be much more difficult than the air campaign against Iraq in 2003. Iran's air defenses are more formidable. Many nuclear-related targets are dispersed across the country or buried deep underground. And United States intelligence analysts acknowledge that they do not know where all of Iran's secret nuclear-related activities are situated. 
 ''Iran poses a very difficult target set,'' said one former top officer who was involved in target planning. ''It's a bigger country, with more rugged terrain. It would be very difficult to take down.'' 
 Those officers and Pentagon officials, as well as independent military specialists, emphasized that there were no indications that airstrikes or commando attacks were imminent, and that any military action would most likely unleash a series of retaliatory strikes from Tehran. 
 ''The consequences of U.S. strikes are enormous,'' concludes a new report by Anthony H. Cordesman and Khalid R. Al-Rodhan of the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. 
 The report, released Friday, warned that Iran could retaliate by firing missiles at United States troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, by using proxy groups in Iraq to attack American soldiers there, and by sending suicide bombers to the United States.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld has dismissed speculation that the United States is planning to attack Iran. (Photo by Yuri Gripas/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AIR FORCES (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); ARMED FORCES (65%); IRAQ WAR (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Atomic Weapons; Uranium

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (55%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%) David E Sanger; Eric Schmitt; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%) INDIAN OCEAN (52%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); CHINA (92%); IRAN (88%); EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (58%) Iran; Iran

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2006



286 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: The Trojan Pension Bill

 BODY:
Pension reform was among the unfinished business left behind last week when Congress adjourned for a two-week recess. The Republican leaders' self-imposed deadline for completing the pension bill had been April 7. But long before that, the bill -- laden with special interests -- had ceased to be only about pensions. And as the lawmakers were preparing to go home, it became increasingly about tax cuts. Before the recess, Congressional Republicans renewed their efforts to pass another round of tax cuts, and it quickly became clear that they wanted more than would fit into one tax bill without busting yet another budget. And so they began ''cross negotiating.'' That's Hillspeak for trying to move provisions from one bill into another. This time, they raised the possibility of stuffing the excess tax cuts into the pension reform package. 
 So far, the ploy has served only to highlight the extent to which the pension bill is already a grab bag of bad tax ideas.
The House version of pension reform, for example, would permanently increase the before-tax amounts that employees could stash each year in a 401(k). When the 2001 tax law expires as scheduled at the end of 2010, the contribution limit is supposed to revert from $15,000 this year to $10,500. That's prudent. The $15,000 limit is so lofty that no more than 5 percent of households ever contribute anywhere near that much. 
 If the House gets its way, however, the maximum contribution will remain $15,000, and will rise each year with inflation. This makes no sense. Study after study shows that high earners don't need more tax incentives to get them to save more. Providing additional tax shelter would not lead to new savings. It would simply reward high earners with tax breaks for something they would have done anyway, while worsening the budget deficit.
 Because personal savings would not go up, but federal borrowing would, the provision would actually reduce national savings -- the sum of private and public saving. A drop in national savings means that the country as a whole is worse off, even if a favored few grow richer. 
 To add insult to injury, the House's pension bill would also weaken the saver's credit, a tax incentive currently on the books to help low-income people save for retirement. The bill would make the credit a permanent feature of the tax code. But unlike the 401(k) provision, it would not be adjusted for inflation and so would become increasingly less valuable over time. 
 There is no sensible explanation for doing that. Unlike high earners, low-income people need an extra push to save. What's more, when people who otherwise would not save manage to do so, national savings go up. 
 It is hard to imagine a set of incentives more off base. Congress should not include them in the final pension bill, or in any other bill. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (92%); TAX LAW (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US 401K PLANS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); BUDGETS (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (87%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); PUBLIC DEBT (66%) Pensions and Retirement Plans; Editorials; Law and Legislation; Taxation

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2006



287 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1508 words

HEADLINE: Analysts Say A Nuclear Iran Is Years Away

BYLINE: This article is by William J. Broad, Nazila Fathi and Joel Brinkley.; Jad Mouawad contributed reporting from New York for this article.

 BODY:
Western nuclear analysts said yesterday that Tehran lacked the skills, materials and equipment to make good on its immediate nuclear ambitions, even as a senior Iranian official said Iran would defy international pressure and rapidly expand its ability to enrich uranium for fuel. 
 The official, Muhammad Saeedi, the deputy head of Iran's atomic energy organization, said Iran would push quickly to put 54,000 centrifuges on line -- a vast increase from the 164 the Iranians said Tuesday that they had used to enrich uranium to levels that could fuel a nuclear reactor.
Still, nuclear analysts called the claims exaggerated. They said nothing had changed to alter current estimates of when Iran might be able to make a single nuclear weapon, assuming that is its ultimate goal. The United States government has put that at 5 to 10 years, and some analysts have said it could come as late as 2020. 
 Iran's announcement brought criticism from several Western nations and to a lesser degree from Russia and China. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice called for ''strong steps'' against Iran, using the country's clear statement of defiance to persuade reluctant countries like Russia and China to support tough international penalties. But Russian officials said they had not changed their opposition to such penalties. Nuclear analysts said Iran's boast that it had enriched uranium using 164 centrifuges meant that it had now moved one small but significant step beyond what it had been ready to do nearly three years ago, when it agreed to suspend enrichment while negotiating the fate of its nuclear program.
 ''They're hyping it,'' said David Albright, president of the Institute for Science and International Security in Washington, a private group that monitors the Iranian nuclear program. Anthony H. Cordesman and Khalid R. al-Rodhan of the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington called the new Iranian claims ''little more than vacuous political posturing'' meant to promote Iranian nationalism and a global sense of atomic inevitability.
 The nuclear experts said Iran's claim yesterday that it would mass-produce 54,000 centrifuges echoed boasts that it made years ago. Even so, they noted, the Islamic state still lacked the parts and materials to make droves of the highly complex machines, which can spin uranium into fuel rich enough for use in nuclear reactors or atom bombs.
 It took Tehran 21 years of planning and 7 years of sporadic experiments, mostly in secret, to reach its current ability to link 164 spinning centrifuges in what nuclear experts call a cascade. Now, the analysts said, Tehran has to achieve not only consistent results around the clock for many months and years but even higher degrees of precision and mass production. It is as if Iran, having mastered a difficult musical instrument, now faces the challenge of making thousands of them and creating a very large orchestra that always plays in tune and in unison.
 Yesterday, Mr. Saeedi, the Iranian nuclear official, said Iran was moving rapidly toward its atomic goals. ''We will expand uranium enrichment to industrial scale at Natanz,'' he was quoted as saying by the ISNA student news agency in a reference to Iran's main enrichment facility. Mr. Saeedi said Iran would start operating the first of 3,000 centrifuges at Natanz by late 2006, with further expansion to 54,000 centrifuges. ''We have no problem in doing that,'' he told ISNA. ''We just need to increase our production lines.''
 The news from Iran, which holds 10 percent of the world's oil reserves, has made oil markets very nervous in recent days and contributed to a spike in oil prices to nearly $70 a barrel on Tuesday. Oil futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange closed at $68.62 a barrel yesterday, just $2 short of their record after Hurricane Katrina. 
 Since the beginning of the year, the diplomatic crisis has prompted fears that Iran might be tempted to restrict its oil sales, provoking a price jump that would cause economic havoc around the world. Iranian officials have repeatedly said they might use their country's ''oil weapon" in a confrontation with the West. But, as is often the case in Iranian politics, such statements were just as rapidly offset by more reassuring comments from the Oil Ministry that Iran would not use its oil exports as a bargaining chip with the West.
 More realistically, many traders fear that any international penalties against Iran might hurt Iran's oil industry, slow investments, or remove sorely needed barrels from oil-hungry markets.
 The Russian stance against penalties highlighted the obstacles Washington faces in its effort to force a halt to Iran's nuclear program. A senior aide to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia said yesterday that any effort to employ broad penalties against Tehran would backfire because ''Iran's current president will use them for his benefit, and he will use them to consolidate public opinion around him.''
 The United States is urging members of the United Nations Security Council to approve travel and financial restrictions on Iran's leaders, and administration officials view Russia, which has close trade ties to Iran, as the linchpin of those efforts.
 Ms. Rice said yesterday that the Security Council must consider ''strong steps'' to induce Iran to change course. ''The Security Council will need to take into consideration this move by Iran,'' she said about Tuesday's announcement. ''It will be time when it reconvenes on this case for strong steps to make certain that we maintain the credibility of the international community.''
 In Iran on Tuesday, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad announced in an elaborate ceremony that Iranian scientists had enriched uranium to 3.5 percent -- a level of purity that, if enough could be made, might fuel a nuclear reactor. While Iran hailed the step as a first, the nuclear experts said Tehran had in fact been doing periodic enrichment experiments with centrifuges for seven years, since 1999.
 Amid the tensions, Mohamed ElBaradei, the head of the International Atomic Energy Agency, arrived in Tehran yesterday for talks with Iranian nuclear officials. Despite the provocative nature of Iran's statements, he still held out hope that the government could be persuaded to compromise. ''We hope to convince Iran to take confidence-building measures including suspension of uranium enrichment activities until outstanding issues are clarified,'' Dr. ElBaradei told journalists at the Tehran airport, Reuters reported.
 Iran's state-run television was dominated by programs about the atomic claim in what seemed like an organized effort to mobilize public support for the nuclear program. One channel showed a reporter stopping people on the street to ask if they had bought pastry to celebrate the news. Another showed nuclear sites and uranium mines. Television news said schools celebrated the success and rebroadcast the announcement of Iran's president hailing the enrichment step.
 While Iran has sharply raised its atomic claims in the past two days, nuclear analysts said it appeared to be roughly where it was expected to be on the road to learning how to enrich uranium on an industrial scale, and still had years of work ahead of it to attain its ambitious goals.
 Mr. Albright of the Institute for Science and International Security said he was not surprised that the Iranians had got a group of 164 centrifuges up and running and had begun to introduce uranium gas into them for enrichment.
 ''There's still a lot they have to do,'' he said, to perfect the operation of the cascade of centrifuges. A report that he and his colleagues made public late last month suggested that Iran would need 6 to 12 months to master that process, and Mr. Albright said in an interview that he stood by that rough estimate as accurate.
 His March report said Iran had parts for perhaps 1,000 or 2,000 centrifuges beyond the ones already in operation, and that Iran is not likely to produce enough highly enriched uranium to make a nuclear weapon until 2009 at the earliest.
 Several Western nations criticized Iran's recent announcements as needlessly provocative.
 Foreign Minister Jack Straw of Britain said they were ''deeply unhelpful,'' and his German counterpart, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, said Iran was ''going in precisely the wrong direction.'' Russia and China joined the chorus, but their criticisms were qualified.
 ''For China, we are concerned about the events and the way things are developing,'' said Wang Guamgya, China's ambassador to the United Nations. But he added, ''In spite of this, I believe diplomatic efforts are still under way.''
 In Moscow, a Foreign Ministry spokesman called Iran's push to expand uranium enrichment ''a step in the wrong direction.''
 But Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov later tempered that. He inveighed against any possible military action against Iran and advised against a rush to judgment, saying Iran had ''never stated that it is striving to possess nuclear weapons.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The head of the Atomic Energy Agency, Mohamed ElBaradei, center, in Tehran with Ali Asghar Soltaniyeh, right, Iran's envoy to the agency, and Muhammad Saeedi, deputy head of its atomic energy program. (Photo by Hasan Sarbakhshian/Associated Press)
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran, who said yesterday that Iranian scientists had enriched uranium to a high level. (Photo by Islamic Republic News Agency, via Reuters)(pg. A8)Chart: ''A Long History of Uranium Enrichment'''85 -- Iran starts a secret program on centrifuge enrichment.'87 -- Acquires drawings of centrifuges and samples of some components.'94 - '96 -- Acquires another centrifuge drawing and components for 500 centrifuges.'97 - '00 -- Assembles and tests centrifuges, enriching uranium in one machine for the first time in 1999.'02 - '03 -- Enriches uranium in multiple centrifuges
 starts new large-scale facility.'06 -- Announces enrichment in 164 centrifuges.(Source by International Atomic Energy Agency)(pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CENTRIFUGES (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); RELIGION (50%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; Uranium; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (59%) United Nations

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (86%); MOHAMED ELBARADEI (79%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%) William J Broad; Nazila Fathi; Joel Brinkley; Muhammad Saeedi; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); IRAN (90%); EUROPE (79%) Iran; China; Europe; Iran; Russia

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2006



288 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1488 words

HEADLINE: Shanghai's Boom: A Building Frenzy 

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, April 12 

 BODY:
Wu Zigfried Zhiqiang grows animated as he clicks through a PowerPoint presentation of the Shanghai of the future, and for anyone who thinks his city is the last word on post-modernism, with its needle-spire towers and kitschy skyscrapers, he suggests that the surprises have just begun. 
 ''On the one hand you will see something like New York's financial district, and on the other, you will see new industrial infrastructure: one of the biggest ports, one of the biggest automobile factories, the biggest shipyards,'' said Mr. Wu, who is the project designer for the 2010 World Expo, a vast undertaking that is driving much of the change. ''You cannot find these things in New York.''
Within the next four years, Shanghai, the backdrop of so much upheaval and so many rebirths since it became the prized treaty port for European powers in the mid-19th century, will be utterly transformed once again. But critics say it will lose as much, in texture and vibrant community life, as it stands to gain in dazzling, futuristic projects. The notion of what warrants conservation has been highly restrictive, amounting to several hundred buildings in a city of 18 million and to parts of 12 districts, like the leafy and increasingly gentrified former French Concession neighborhood. 
 Mr. Wu, a 46-year-old urban designer, describes how China's greatest city is racing to be greater still, aiming for the top as it ascends the hierarchy of world cities, with one eye on longtime champions like New York, and another on its fraternal rival, Beijing.
 Like China's capital, which is undergoing a crash rebuilding program in time for the 2008 Summer Olympics, Shanghai is using its role as host of the World Expo to shift what had already been a hugely ambitious remake into high gear. By the standards of recent urban development projects in the West -- the so-called Big Dig in Boston, say -- the scale of what the city is undertaking is astounding. 
 Along the western banks of the Huangpu River, site of the historic Bund thoroughfare, a 2,000-plus-yard-long stretch of the waterfront is being razed and redeveloped. The essence of the Bund, a virtual museum of Western architecture, flush with classical, Gothic and Art Deco landmarks, will be preserved, but densely inhabited neighborhoods at its edge are already being demolished. 
 This fresh development zone in the heart of central Shanghai, facing the newly minted skyscrapers of the Pudong district across the river, and every bit as attention-grabbing, will extend more than 700 yards inland at its widest point, with sleek halls and pavilions and green spaces. 
 Nearby, there will also be a modern passenger ship terminal and the world's fastest commercial train service, a high-speed magnetic levitation line from Shanghai's international airport, will be extended to Hangzhou, a city 100 miles to the southwest. The airport, meanwhile, is adding a second terminal whose futuristic design by the Xian Dai Architectural Design Group, is to complement the original terminal, designed by the French architect Paul Andreu. 
 Mr. Wu said that the architectural layout of the riverside project would take advantage of seasonal winds to assist climate control and that a water purification project aims to make the river water that flows through a 1.8-mile canal safe enough for swimming.
 If the Expo seems intended to dazzle -- and it is -- the project is merely the central nugget of a far larger undertaking, one that will leave very little of this huge city untouched. Shanghai already boasts 4,000 skyscrapers, nearly twice as many as New York, and plans to add 1,000 more in the next decade. Elevated expressways are being built to channel above-ground traffic, and a gigantic push is under way to expand the subway system.
 Many feel, though, that what Shanghai is losing is even more vital than what it will gain. Shanghai was China's first, and remains its most distinctive, experiment in modern urbanism, and conservationists say that much of what made it so special in the last century will soon fall victim to the wrecking ball. 
 The severe damage begins at the very edge of the Bund, in the crowded neighborhoods peopled by generations of workers who have migrated here during more than a century's worth of economic booms. They have fashioned what has come to be Shanghai's signature urban lifestyle: walkup apartment buildings, often connected by a network of lanes, and an extraordinarily rich street life steeped in street cuisine, open-air produce markets and the ever-present bicycle.
 Many of these neighborhoods, often starting just a couple of blocks in from the grand riverfront, or at its northern and southern ends, are already being demolished. Another area facing destruction soon, the north bank of Suzhou Creek, is of prime interest both to big developers and to historians and preservationists. The buildings there are of uneven architectural interest, though many are considered precious. But the area is considered a vital matrix of Shanghai's authentic lifestyle.
 Chen Guang, an architect who belongs to a civic group involved in conservation efforts makes clear how precarious the situation is, both for the city's old neighborhoods and for those who wish to preserve them. ''Our group is comprised of people who share an interest in protecting old neighborhoods,'' he said, ''although we don't use the word protect in our name, even if this what we dearly hope to do.''
 By the time of the World Expo, in 2010, Mr. Chen estimates, only five percent of the old neighborhoods existing in 2003 citywide will remain. ''Suzhou Creek is a bit special for us, though, because of its special status in Shanghai's history, and it has many units that are still intact. Suzhou Creek is a complete entity unto itself, in the same way that the Bund is a unit.''
 The city's plans call for the leveling of much of the creek's north bank and building green promenades in place of the old tenements and brick-walled lanes. In Shanghai, as in the rest of China, where development proceeds largely by fiat, such things can happen with astounding speed. While rules have recently been amended to help residents bargain for better compensation from developers, there is no real choice about moving. 
 There have been no public hearings, and no votes on the matter. Even budget estimates are hard to come by. Shanghai's eviction of hundreds of thousands of mostly low-income people from the city center has caused occasional protests, and there have been persistent reports of large-scale, high-level corruption involving politicians and developers. 
 Shanghai is building no new housing for low-income residents in the city's core. ''Shanghai is a 100 percent private market,'' said Cheng Yun, chief researcher at the Shanghai offices of Centaline Property Consultants, a Hong Kong real estate company. ''There is no social development in the central city. This is unique in the whole world, and it is not healthy.''
 The city's approach to public information about real estate is also unusual by the standards of most nations. The press is barred from reporting on ties between officials and developers, and even detailed maps showing patterns of demolition and redevelopment are as closely held as secret documents.
 The concerns of many of those forced out are much more down-to-earth. ''We have to move to an area which is far away from here, a suburban area, and we don't want to go there,'' said Zhu Yumei, 57, a woman who has lived her whole life on the north bank of Suzhou Creek. City officials say that they are mindful of the need to preserve a slice of the old town, but that working block by block with residents in buildings that have suffered decades of decay is impractical. 
 They contend that although less pronounced than in many Western cities, the hollowing of the central city is part of a broader regional trend. ''From Singapore to Tokyo, Asian cities are experiencing this emptying out,'' said Tang Zhiping, a senior city planner. ''It's more appropriate to compare Shanghai to places like these.''
 For others, though, that is precisely the fear, that in a few short years Shanghai will have become just another in a group of largely anonymous Asian megacities in its haste for sleek modernity.
 Zheng Shiling, the dean of urban planners here, and a man who has worked hard to lobby city officials on the importance of historic preservation, said: ''Government officials like to be promoted according to their achievements, and that means having something to show. So this is an approach for government officials, not an urban planning approach.''
 In the 1960's, Mr. Zheng said, building new things in Chinese cities was revolutionary. Now it is conservation that is radical. ''Once the reform period started, we wanted to have everything at once,'' he said. ''We were constructing modernization, but without a clear mind of modernity.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Nantang district of residences near Suzhou Creek, of interest to preservationists, is scheduled to be replaced by new development.
 The North Bund district is being demolished to create Shanghai's new passenger ship terminal along the banks of the Huangpu River. (Photographs by Ryan Pyle for The New York Times)(pg. E7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC SITES (84%); CITY LIFE (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MARINE VESSELS (75%); SHIPBUILDING (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); CITIES (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); OLYMPICS (69%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (60%); AIRPORTS (60%); MAGNETIC LEVITATION (60%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (55%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (50%) Area Planning and Renewal

PERSON: Howard W French; Wu Zigfried Zhiqiang

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); EAST CHINA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (74%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%) China; Shanghai (China); China

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2006



289 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: Beckett the Difficult, Beckett the Brash, Beckett the Prolific

BYLINE: By JONATHAN KALB

 BODY:

Samuel Beckett, the Grove Centenary Edition
Vol. I, Novels (''Murphy,'' ''Watt,'' ''Mercier and Camier''), introduction by Colm Toibin. 478 pages.
Vol. II, Novels (''Molloy,'' ''Malone Dies,'' ''The Unnamable,'' ''How It Is''), introduction by Salman Rushdie. 521 pages.
Vol. III, Dramatic Works, introduction by Edward Albee. 509 pages.
Vol. IV, Poems, Short Fiction, Criticism, introduction by J. M. Coetzee. 569 pages.
Grove Press. Each volume, $24. As a set, $100.
 Americans have for the most part read Samuel Beckett in a motley collection of very thin books. The average educated person typically owns the paperback of ''Waiting for Godot'' plus a select handful of the numerous other 50-to-60-page volumes, set in large type, that Grove Press issued over the years in a tireless effort to squeeze every penny from its star author, with his famous penchant for brevity. Those who have rationalized the cheese-slice books as apt vessels for Beckett's rigorous art of reduction and withholding may be shocked now by the appearance of a collected works that weighs in at more than 2,000 pages, in four thick volumes. 
The new Grove Centenary Edition, issued in celebration of what would have been Beckett's 100th birthday today, isn't exhaustive, but it contains everything for which he is justly considered a giant of 20th-century literature and theater. Anyone with plans to explore the work of this morbidly inspiring, comically solipsistic, nuclear-age Dante more widely at some point ought to grab this boxed set while it's available. (Bibliophiles take note: a long out-of-print 16-volume ''Collected Works'' from 1970, the only other comprehensive Beckett edition Grove issued, now sells for more than $400.)
 Beckett, who died in 1989 and found celebrity obscene, obviously hasn't done much for our hype machines lately. As a result, one assumes, Grove has amped up his Centenary Edition with fresh star wattage. The general editor is Paul Auster, and the volumes are introduced by Colm Toibin (Novels I), Salman Rushdie (Novels II), Edward Albee (Dramatic Works) and J. M. Coetzee (Poems, Short Fiction, Criticism). These are heavy hitters, sticking their necks out to appraise the hardest act to follow in the literary generation before them, and their appraisals -- mostly illuminating, not uniformly glowing -- add a fascinating note of competitiveness to the volumes.
 ''To revisit these books,'' Mr. Rushdie writes, ''is to have to answer, promptly and up front, the question of difficulty, for there is no getting around it, these are difficult books.'' Some much more than others, actually, and the nature of the difficulty changes over time, growing more rewarding with the decades as Beckett refined his art and freed it from dependence on obscure literary references and other specialized knowledge. Works from the 1930's, like the densely footnoted poem ''Whoroscope'' or the story collection ''More Pricks Than Kicks'' -- Joycean to a fault, stuffed with compound neologisms, foreign puns and other flashy gimmicks -- are hard slogs for anyone other than a specialist. 
 Not so with the differently bizarre novels from the 1940's, however, whose heady pleasures are accessible to anyone prepared to follow a prolonged, impish train of thought. To reread the trilogy of novels, ''Molloy,'' ''Malone Dies'' and ''The Unnamable'' (1947-50), today after rereading some of the stiff, forced works that preceded it, is to marvel anew at the velocity and drive of the prose. The energy is suddenly urgent and channeled into an exploration of an inner landscape, a passionate and obsessive investigation of being.
 ''Molloy'' is a double quest tale, its likably irascible title character haplessly seeking his mother while a peevish, shadowy investigator named Moran seeks Molloy. ''Malone Dies'' and ''The Unnamable'' are propelled by amusingly digressive stories told by parodically self-conscious narrators who claim to be physically powerless, possibly near death, but who elude fixed definition in fascinating ways.
 The books are linked by their ruminations on writing as an indispensable form of lying, and by a deeper, less sardonic pursuit of mental companions and a cosmic judge for their dubious narrators. The mesmerizing theological deadlock they set up lingers for more than a decade in various works, reaching a climax in Hamm's joke about God in ''Endgame,'' ''The bastard! He doesn't exist!'' 
 Colm Toibin is well attuned to the lapsed Protestant pilgrimage of his fellow Irishman. Quoting Beckett's 1945 realization that his artistic path would henceforth be ''in impoverishment, in lack of knowledge and in taking away, in subtracting rather than in adding,'' Mr. Toibin is eloquent on Beckett's view of ''consciousness as a form of comedy close to tragedy and logic as a crime, its perpetrators to be punished by offering them infinite numbers of absurd logical conclusions.'' Mr. Toibin is also acute on Beckett's decision to write in French, translating his works into English himself, because French provided a desired quality of ''weakness'' whereas English posed ''the temptation of rhetoric and virtuosity, words mirroring themselves complacently, Narcissus-like.'' 
 The hardest task falls to J. M. Coetzee, introducing the miscellaneous volume, yet he, too, offers keen insights, particularly about Beckett's creative impasse following the trilogy, when he banged up against the limits of his quest for finality and quietude. ''The next three decades,'' writes Mr. Coetzee, ''will see Beckett, in his prose fictions, unable to move on -- stalled, in fact, on the very question of what it means to move on, why one should move on.'' 
 Drama became Beckett's chief strategy for writing himself out of this corner. He never set out to be a revolutionary but rather to investigate the particular advantages of theater for his characteristic meditations on being, dubious presence, seriocomic desolation and the artistic imperative to ''fail again, fail better.'' In the process, though, he ended up turning the theater world -- famously liberal politically yet notoriously conservative regarding received forms -- on its head.
 One would think that Edward Albee, who has written good criticism as well as plays, would relish the chance to elucidate this dramatic project. His introduction to the drama volume, though, barely two pages long, does little more than pay general homage and admonish directors to follow Beckett's stage directions.
 ''What a wonderful book you have,'' writes Mr. Albee, leaving ordinary readers to discover on their own the astonishments and glories of an oeuvre that (bewilderingly at first) treated the theater event as a metaphorical birth and death; that reintroduced poetic rigor and economy into dramatic language and action; that incorporated the physical presence and exertions of live performers as profound philosophical content; that made boredom into a respected tool of theatrical drollery. And much more.
 The dramatic works can usually speak for themselves in performance, of course. It's only in big, fat collectable book form -- especially with the densely technical scripts for radio, television and film included -- that they might have shone brighter with a slightly more generous prologue.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by John Haynes)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (78%); CELEBRITIES (72%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: Jonathan Kalb; Samuel (1906-89) Beckett

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2006



290 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: State Governments Overreach in Taking on Problems Best Solved at the National Level 

BYLINE: By Robert H. Frank. 
Robert H. Frank, an economist at the Johnson School of Management at Cornell University, is the co-author, with Ben S. Bernanke, of ''Principles of Economics.'' E-mail: rhf3@cornell.edu

 BODY:
IN manufacturing, it is said, the French copy no one and no one copies the French. A parallel statement may soon apply to central elements of American public policy. In most of the world, for example, the primary responsibility for ensuring access to health care, regulating environmental quality and supporting basic scientific research is exercised by national governments. But in this country, these tasks are increasingly managed by state, and even local, governments.
 Last week, for instance, Massachusetts became the first state to enact legislation trying to ensure that all its citizens have access to health care. At least 19 other states considered legislation expanding health care coverage in 2005. In January, eight states adopted new rules from the California Air Resources Board calling for a 30 percent reduction in carbon dioxide emissions from cars and light trucks by 2016, a step that Gov. George E. Pataki of New York has also pledged to take. And Maryland has just become the fifth state to authorize state spending for basic stem cell research. 
In each case, there are compelling economic reasons for delegating the activities to national, rather than state or local, governments. Yet in each arena, the federal government has failed to act. It refuses to participate in international efforts to limit greenhouse gases. It makes further cuts in federal support for basic scientific research, even as the nation's share of world patents continues to decline. And about 46 million Americans currently lack any form of health insurance. 
 Although it is no mystery why states are beginning to take the lead in these domains, it is important to understand why the recently enacted programs are destined to fall far short of what could have been achieved at the federal level.
 The explanation begins with the question of why we have multiple levels of government in the first place. Almost all of us are subject to taxation and regulation by governments at the local, state and national level. Although multitiered government entails substantial redundancy and inefficiency, there are good economic reasons for it. 
 As the economist Charles M. Tiebout explained in a seminal paper published in 1956, an important advantage of providing public services at the local level is that this enables us to better achieve our desired mix of public and private consumption. 
 People who like lots of parkland, well-maintained roads, large police forces and good schools can thus gather in high-tax communities that provide these amenities, while others can choose low-tax communities and spend more of their income on private consumption. Local government also minimizes the distance between citizens and the lawmakers who tax and regulate them.
 But for some public services, like national defense, scale advantages rule out primary reliance on local government. Indeed, the fact that big countries can field more effective armies than small ones is the primary explanation for why large nations became the norm. 
 Scale advantages, however, do not explain why health care policy, environmental regulation and support for basic scientific research are best delegated to the federal government. Rather, the problem is that in each of these instances, programs at the state and local levels create perverse economic incentives. 
 A case in point is a proposal recently discussed in Ithaca, N.Y., where I live. Activists in this progressive upstate community (sometimes called ''the People's Republic of Ithaca'') called for a local income tax to finance a single-payer health care system for local residents. According to health policy experts, such a system would eliminate the substantial waste associated with attempts by insurance companies to limit authorized services and avoid covering people with chronic medical conditions. 
 Yet, despite this advantage, a health system operated at the local level could never work. Because people are free to move, such a plan would attract uninsured people with chronic conditions from surrounding cities, substantially raising the program's cost. In turn, the need to raise income tax rates would induce many of the community's more affluent taxpayers to flee to neighboring cities. The resulting death spiral would quickly doom the program.
 Like local borders, state borders are completely permeable. So, unless a large number of other states simultaneously enact comprehensive health care legislation of their own, the new Massachusetts program will confront the same problem. 
 State efforts to regulate greenhouse gases and support basic scientific research are problematic for a different reason. When a pound of carbon dioxide is emitted into the atmosphere, it quickly disperses around the globe. A state that regulates greenhouse gases thus bears the entire cost of the reduction but receives only a minuscule fraction of the benefit. That fact is bound to limit political support for curbs strong enough to matter. As economists have long emphasized, effective environmental regulation requires national, or even international, collective action. 
 It is the same with support for basic scientific research. Residents of Maryland will bear the entire cost of any discoveries from research they finance but will reap only a small fraction of the corresponding benefits. And because of that imbalance, their incentive will be to invest too little.
 My point is not that states are foolish for having extended their reach. Again, the federal government has completely dropped the ball in these domains. The recent state actions may not be the most efficient ways of dealing with our most pressing problems. But they are an unmistakable signal of voter impatience with ineffective government at the federal level. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (91%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (77%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); CONSUMPTION (74%); BUDGETS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); POLICE FORCES (60%) States (US); Law and Legislation; Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Air Pollution; States (US); Research; Stem Cells; Fetal Tissue; Carbon Dioxide; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Taxation

COMPANY: CALIFORNIA AIR RESOURCES BOARD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: California Air Resources Board

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

PERSON: Robert H Frank

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Massachusetts; Maryland; Ithaca (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2006



291 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Trade Deficit Narrowed in February 

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
The nation's trade deficit narrowed in February, the Commerce Department reported yesterday, but experts cautioned that the improvement was influenced by one-time factors like the Chinese New Year. They predicted that the trade gap would widen again because of rising oil prices. 
 American imports of goods and services exceeded exports by $65.7 billion in the month, about 4.1 percent less than the $68.6 billion posted in January, the highest for any single month. The February figure was the third-biggest monthly deficit and about 9 percent higher than the average monthly gap in 2005. 
Exports and imports both fell, but imports turned down more sharply as fewer foreign cars and less furniture and electronics were shipped into the country.
 ''This is a positive blip in an overall deteriorating trend in the U.S. trade picture,'' said Ashraf Laidi, chief currency analyst for MG Financial Group, a currency trading firm based in New York.
 The country's trade deficit with China, the source of much concern in Washington, dropped a sharp 23 percent, to $13.8 billion, in the month, but analysts suggested that the decline was temporary and partly caused by the Chinese New Year, when many factories and businesses shut down to allow workers to celebrate the holidays in late January and early February. The trade figures supported that idea, as exports to China rose 17 percent and imports from the country fell by about 16 percent in the month.
 ''It may well be that the drop was in part based on the New Year, but it clearly went beyond that,'' said James O'Sullivan, an economist at UBS.
 The smaller trade gap with China is likely to do little to mute calls in Congress for the Bush administration to label Beijing a ''currency manipulator'' in a coming Treasury Department report. Trade is also expected to be a major subject of discussion during the visit of President Hu Jintao of China to Washington next week. 
 The nation's bill for petroleum-based imports in February was little changed at $24.6 billion, or about 14 percent of all imports, even though the country imported fewer barrels of crude oil and other energy products. The average price for imported crude oil rose to $53.72 a barrel in February, from $51.93 in January, according to the Commerce Department.
 The price for oil on futures markets has climbed much higher since then on worries about the nuclear standoff with Iran and production disruptions in Nigeria, an indication that the United States' trade deficit could climb much higher in the coming months.
 Crude oil for May delivery fell 36 cents, to $68.62 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange yesterday, but remains close to its highs after Hurricane Katrina disrupted energy supplies in August.
 Mr. O'Sullivan estimated that higher oil prices would increase the trade deficit by about $800 million in March and could add an additional $2 billion in April if prices remained at current levels.
 Over all, exports fell by 1.1 percent, to $113 billion, in February with the biggest decline coming in industrial supplies and foods like corn and soybeans, while exports of planes, artwork and metals increased.
 Imports fell by 2.3 percent, to $179 billion, including a 6 percent drop in automobile imports. Increases were seen in a handful of categories -- royalties jumped $600 million, for instance, including payments by NBC for broadcast rights to the Winter Olympics.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A ship unloading goods yesterday at the Port of Boston. United States imports declined in February, including those coming from China. (Photo by JB Reed/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (95%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); FUTURES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); IMPORT PRICES (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (61%); HURRICANES (60%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%) International Trade and World Market; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Futures and Options Trading; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: MG FINANCIAL GROUP (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) Commerce Department

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (57%) Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NIGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2006



292 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Circuits; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: Read It? Watched It? Swap It

BYLINE: By MICHEL MARRIOTT

 BODY:
For Heather Perlmutter, a 41-year-old investment portfolio manager in Manhattan, the Web site with the whimsical name made perfect sense. Like many Americans, she found herself awash in CD's, DVD's and VHS tapes that were seldom if ever played anymore. They just took up valuable space in the Upper West Side apartment where she lives with her husband and two young children. 
 Then a friend of a friend told her about Zunafish (www.zunafish.com), a new Web site that matches people with discs and tapes to trade -- and video games and paperback books, too.
To the delight of her 7-year-old son, Ms. Perlmutter recently used the site to barter her tape of ''Fried Green Tomatoes,'' the 1991 Kathy Bates drama in which an unhappy housewife befriends an elderly woman in a nursing home, for a tape of Steven Spielberg's digital dinosaur blockbuster, ''Jurassic Park.'' 
 ''You feel like you're getting something special, that you're getting the better part of the deal,'' Ms. Perlmutter said. ''Wow, somebody wants your stuff. I guess it's one man's trash is another man's treasure.''
 That was certainly the thinking of Dan Elias and Billy Bloom, the unlikely founders of Zunafish.
 In a highly competitive era, independent tinkerers who are convinced they have a big idea can face big problems getting the idea to market. Even video games, once famous for whisking their creators from makeshift workshops to fast fortunes and expensive cars, are mostly made today by corporate teams of designers and programmers in sprawling office parks.
 But Mr. Elias, a television news anchor in western Massachusetts, and Mr. Bloom, the owner of a volleyball league in New York City, both self-described amateurs at creating a digital service and company, spawned Zunafish, a singularly simple-to-use media trading site.
 ''We have no background in technology,'' said Mr. Elias, a 45-year-old native New Yorker who now lives in Northampton, Mass. ''I think we always thought from the start that it was a big idea. There are hundreds of billions of dollars of idle media materials sitting in people's homes.''
 Mr. Bloom, 47, said of the company's humble origins, ''If we lived in the country, it would have literally been created in one of our garages.''
 The site, which looks remarkably similar to a prototype Mr. Bloom sketched on notebook paper four years ago with Mr. Elias, trades only one-for-one items within the same category -- CD's, DVD's, VHS tapes, video games, audio books or paperback books. No item (for example, a seven-disc DVD set of the first season of the television series ''24'') is worth more than any another (say, a DVD of Peter Jackson's ''King Kong'').
 Traders using the site determine the relative value of an item by choosing to swap or not. No one is ever forced to make a trade, Mr. Elias noted.
 Each trader pays Zunafish $1 through credit or debit card for each trade. The site then calculates the postage costs and creates addressed mailing labels that can be downloaded and printed out. Each trader, Mr. Bloom said, is responsible for paying the postage and mailing the item promptly.
 Like buyers and sellers on eBay, the traders on Zunafish rate each other, providing a confidence index for future transactions.
 ''We take extremely limited involvement in the transaction,'' Mr. Elias said. ''It is mediated by a user-rating system. Not by us.''
 Zunafish started on Jan. 1, with no fanfare or publicity. Mr. Bloom and Mr. Elias said that the circle of traders had been limited so far -- they did not disclose figures -- but that they felt strongly that throngs of prospective users would discover the site.
 ''It is only as strong as the community that comes to it,'' Mr. Elias said of Zunafish. ''It takes a few minutes to sit down and post all of your stuff. But once you do, you've made an investment that pays off week by week as people come to inquire about things that you own.''
 Unlocking new value in practically discarded household items is a growing phenomenon. Michael J. Silverstein, a senior vice president of the Boston Consulting Group and co-author of ''Treasure Hunt: Inside the Mind of the New Consumer'' (Portfolio Hardcover, 2006), says middle-class consumers are becoming more comfortable economizing in some areas so they have more capital to buy premium items in other areas.
 He said that if consumers were asked to place all of their CD's and DVD's, for example, in three piles -- those they love, those they like well enough to keep and those they would be happy to have taken away -- the piles would most likely be equal.
 Any system that helps people easily trade away what they do not want for what they do want is ''a beautiful synchronicity,'' Mr. Silverstein said in an interview. 
 Further, he notes in his book that online companies like eBay owe much of their success to their enormous appeal to the ''consumer value calculus.''
 Mr. Elias said Zunafish played to the same calculus. That is hardly an accident. ''We often found ourselves asking, 'How does eBay do it?' given the breadth of its success.''
 One notable feature is how easy it is to post items on Zunafish to be traded.
 Mr. Bloom said Zunafish used a database that was updated weekly. Type in the name of an item or its universal product code (usually found near an item's bar code) -- or the I.S.B.N. number for books -- and the database pulls up a full description of the item and a digital photograph of its cover. If the match is correct, the user clicks O.K. and the item is posted.
 There are other online trading sites, including Peerflix and BarterBee, which started last summer, that offer trading in similar categories. But other sites tend to offer a more limited range of items, or they use more complicated systems, requiring points and memberships to execute trades.
 Todd Chanko, an analyst with Jupiter-Research, said he saw limits to the appeal of online trading. 
 ''There's a lot of ways to do this in the real world,'' he said. ''There are flea markets, thrift shops and street corners where people just dump things.'' As a result, ''the real value proposition here is for those who don't have those opportunities, who live in areas far too remote.''
 And for many of those consumers, he said, Internet access and use tends to be relatively low.
 But Zunafish investors, mostly the friends and relatives of Mr. Elias and Mr. Bloom, disagreed. In a matter of weeks, they had investments from 19 of the 21 people they approached. Ultimately they raised $485,000 in capital in two rounds and valued the company at $3.5 million. But the journey from idea to start date took almost four years, including the services of a corporate lawyer, a patent lawyer and a trademark lawyer. Just debugging the Web site itself seemed never-ending, the men said.
 So far, they are keeping their day jobs. ''None of us has thought about leaving our positions at all,'' Mr. Bloom said. ''In the distant future that this should generate sufficient income to support itself and support us. ''
 He never finished the sentence. But Mr. Bloom pondered the question for a few moments, then borrowed from a ''Star Wars'' movie to sound a philosophical note. ''Always in motion,'' he said in his best impression of the Jedi sage, Yoda, ''is the future.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Billy Bloom, left, and Dan Elias created a Web site, Zunafish.com, as a place for people to exchange media -- books, CD's, DVD's and video games -- with other people. The system is simple: trade one used item for another of the same kind, no bartering involved. (Photo by Michael Falco for The New York Times)Chart: ''QUID PRO QUO''DVD'S''Mystic River''/''True Romance''''The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers''/''The Fugitive''''American Beauty''/''In the Bedroom''VIDEO GAMESTony Hawk's Underground/Sonic Adventure 2 BattleArmy Men: Sarge's War/Star Wars: Clone WarsGrand Theft Auto: San Andreas/MojoPAPERBACK BOOKS''A Man in Full''/''The Handmaid's Tale''''Life of Pi''/''Pet Sematary''''Me Talk Pretty One Day''/''Running With Scissors''CD'SBob Marley/Alanis MorissetteBlack Eyed Peas/''8 Mile'' soundtrack''Forrest Gump'' soundtrack/U2Trading on Zunafish must takeplace within a category -- no CD's for books, for example. Here are some recent swaps.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); WEB SITES (78%); LITERATURE (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (73%); CHILDREN (71%) Computers and the Internet; Recordings and Downloads (Audio); Recordings and Downloads (Video); Computer and Video Games; Books and Literature; Company and Organization Profiles; Music; Dvd (Digital Versatile Disk); Computers and the Internet

ORGANIZATION: Zunafish.com

PERSON: STEVEN SPIELBERG (53%) Billy Bloom; Dan Elias; Michel Marriott

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2006



293 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Thursday Styles; Critical Shopper; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: It's Gotta Be The Shoes

BYLINE: By Alex Kuczynski

 BODY:
MY deeply hip stepson sounded vaguely amused that I was planning to check out Flight Club, the sneaker resale boutique in NoHo. Who knows what they'll make of you, he said, his voice stopping on the ''you'' with just a bit too much force. The emphasis made me realize that he thinks I'm a total loser. 
 There are pros and cons to having stepchildren. One of the cons is that you get to relive all the terrifying insecurities of high school over and over and over again. It's one thing if your own progeny think you're uncool: you're the parent; you're supposed to be uncool. But we stepparents have only our status as potentially cool people to warm us at night. 
Thus humbled, I walked into Flight Club several days ago. I was not the coolest person in the store. Then again, the people who frequent Flight Club are sneaker freaks, mostly men who are addicted to buying limited-edition vintage athletic footwear. They speak in highly technical language, tossing around terms like ''tongue graphic'' and ''toe boxes'' with the gravity of men discussing tractor engines or team sports. 
 At the heart of Flight Club's existence is the paradox of sneaker fetishism. Sneakers used to be things we wore until they wore out. Since the 1980's, when Nike transformed sportswear into a lifestyle, sneakers became status symbols, and tender young shoppers began to covet sneakers, and protect them, and tuck them into their little boxes at night, and even -- horribly -- kill one another over them. This is the economic force by which sneakers manufactured five years ago become more, not less, valuable as time goes on. 
 As a consumer culture we suffer from acute eBay-itis, meaning we can buy and sell vintage wares with ease and believe we are participating in some sort of communal art form. The sneakers in Flight Club represent that piquant, rapid recycling of nostalgia that marks so much fashion today, except that these shoes are nothing so crass as reconceptualized, new versions of old sneakers. They are actual old sneakers, artifacts transported as if through a time machine, still fresh in their boxes. Vintage models in ''as new'' condition are referred to as ''dead stock,'' the preferred resale condition, complete with price tags and tissue paper. 
 Other factors also raise the price: if a shoe is a ''quick strike,'' that means the manufacturer made only a limited number of the shoes. ''Hyper strikes'' refer to even more limited editions, often as few as two dozen pairs. At Flight Club, a bare long hallway of a store, the rarest shoes are in a glass case toward the back. This is where I found a pair of Reebok Court Victory Pump ''Ball Out'' sneakers, in size 10. They are made of the fuzzy, fluorescent fabric that covers tennis balls, and cost $600. 
 Other shoes cost more: the Nike Air Force 1 ''Sakura,'' painted with delicate Japanese flowers, was marked for sale at $1,400. The Nike Dunk Lo Supreme ''This Day in History'' sneaker in tan and black, brand-new in the box, costs $800 in size 13. A Nike skateboarding shoe, the Dunk Lo ''Pigeon,'' in gray and white, with a small orange-footed pigeon embroidered on the heel, is $2,500 in size 13; $2,000 in size 10. 
 THE entire back wall of the store is devoted to Air Jordans, the sneakers that revolutionized footwear. But, I asked one of the clerks, why Michael Jordan? ''Because before Michael Jordan there was none of this,'' he said, sweeping his hand along the wall of shrink-wrapped individual Jordans as if showing off his new Picasso mural. ''Back in the day it used to be all about the Adidas. Then Nike came along, and Michael Jordan came along, and that was that. Everything changed.'' 
 What's intriguing about Flight Club is that unlike most other sneaker boutiques, it sells sneakers on consignment. Consignment is a term I usually associate with tiny second-floor stores on the Upper East Side where formerly grand ladies of formerly grand means bid farewell to their Chanel suits, consigning their couture goods to the next generation, so they can pay the phone bill. 
 But consignment works downtown too. Potential sellers bring their new or gently worn sneakers to Flight Club, fix a price with the sales staff and receive 80 percent of the sale. While Air Jordans appear to make up Flight Club's bread and butter, the store also sells shoes from Puma, Visvim, Adidas and the Japanese company A Bathing Ape. I figured the name was some sort of anagram, but could only wrench ''Beat hag pain'' out of it. The name actually derives from a Japanese expression, ''to bathe in lukewarm water,'' which the brand's designer has said refers to the shallow, comfortable lives he sees Tokyo teenagers living. 
 As uncool as I was -- I was wearing Merrell hiking boots, which means I might as well have toddled in wearing white orthopedic shoes -- the staff members were helpful. Maybe they were just amused by the sheer void of cool I represented. Maybe they were nice to me because I told them I was thinking of surprising my incredibly cool stepson with a pair of vintage Air Jordans. 
 The guy in charge handed me a card listing the vintage Air Jordan models, brandishing it with a flourish as if he were the sommelier with a list of rare wine. He was proud. I was cool. 

Flight Club
254 Greene Street (between Eighth and Waverly Streets); (212) 505-2330

ATMOSPHERE -- Bare-bones utilitarian showroom so anonymous-looking you can walk right past without seeing it.

SERVICE -- Friendly, but I had the suspicion they were so friendly to me because I was such an obvious neophyte that they took pity.

PRICES -- About $200 to about $2,000.


GRAPHIC: Photos: KICKIN' IT -- Flight Club is a hip shoe connoisseur's wonderland, with hundreds of pairs of vintage sneakers for sale on consignment. (Photographs by John Lei for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STEPPARENTS (90%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (90%); FOOTWEAR (89%); RETAILERS (89%); ATHLETIC FOOTWEAR MFG (78%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); FASHION & APPAREL (72%); PRICE INCREASES (60%) Shoes and Boots; Sneakers

ORGANIZATION: Flight Club (NYC Store)

PERSON: Alex Kuczynski

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2006



294 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Pataki's Supervetoes

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 12 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki showed this week that sometimes even a lame duck can roar.
 After being relegated to the sidelines for much of the legislative session, in part because of a lengthy hospitalization after his appendix was removed, Governor Pataki reasserted himself here with a vengeance this week, issuing 202 vetoes to block about $2.9 billion worth of budget items the Legislature had passed without his approval.
Governor Pataki scrapped the property tax rebate that his fellow Republicans in the State Senate had made their top priority this year. He killed a child tax credit that Assembly Democrats had championed. And he cut hundreds of millions of dollars in health-care spending that left his former allies in the health-care lobby -- unions and industry groups who had backed his re-election in 2002 -- threatening to sue him. 
 And rather than risk the humiliation of being overridden, as he was in 2003, Mr. Pataki claimed a new power: a sort of superveto that cannot be overridden. 
 Seizing on several recent court decisions, the governor is claiming that the Legislature unconstitutionally altered his budget proposal, so $1.4 billion in tax cuts and spending that they enacted is null and void, and he maintains that lawmakers do not have the power to override his constitutional vetoes. 
 The governor's strategy is not without its risks, especially for someone who is still flirting with a run for president. Vetoing more than $1 billion in tax cuts is not the kind of thing that plays well in Republican primaries, and is the kind of factoid that has been known to make its way into attack ads. How will the veto of $200,000 for a tractor rollover protection program play with those Iowa farmers he has been courting?
 Mr. Pataki told reporters at a news conference in the Capitol that he was not concerned about how his vetoes might play in the future. ''I'm doing what I think is right for the people of the State of New York,'' he said. ''That's what I've always done.'' 
 In wielding the veto pen, Mr. Pataki is seeking to restore part of his image that has been somewhat tarnished in recent years: a reputation for fiscal conservatism. Mr. Pataki cut spending when he first came to office. But over the years, as he won re-election twice in an overwhelmingly Democratic state, he has cut deals with unions and lawmakers, and state spending has outpaced inflation, growing to $112.8 billion from $62.6 billion his first year.
 But even with his cuts, the portions of the budget that Governor Pataki let stand still cost $2 billion more than the budget that he proposed back in January. Many of the items that he blocked -- including the property tax rebate and the child tax credit -- were blocked not so much because of their cost, but because the governor disapproved of the way that the Legislature had altered his own tax cut proposals. 
 ''This is not so much about spending,'' said Edmund J. McMahon, the director of the Empire Center, a conservative fiscal policy group. ''This is as much about his legacy, and whether he leaves here with his tail between his legs or not.''
 The Legislature -- which has banded together across party lines for several years now in order to pass budgets that the governor was often less than thrilled about -- appeared somewhat stunned by Mr. Pataki's latest move. While some lawmakers said that they were confident that they could override the nonconstitutional vetoes he issued, they said that they were taken aback by his claim that he was free to ignore the laws he deemed illegal.
 State Senator Joseph L. Bruno, the Republican majority leader, accused him of acting like a monarch. Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Democrat, accused him of turning his back on the needs of the poor, the elderly and the sick. 
 Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester Democrat who is running for attorney general, said that the governor was acting imperious.
 ''This is the king saying that he does not have to listen to the commons,'' Mr. Brodsky said. ''It's saying, if the question is important enough, the legislative role is advisory. And that's un-American. We did not have a Revolutionary War to restore a budgetary king back to power 230 years later.''
 Mr. Pataki said that he was simply using the powers that he had been granted by the courts, which ruled that the governor is the main architect of the budget and that the Legislature is sharply limited in how it can alter his proposals. 
 The governor held open the possibility that he might still reach an agreement with lawmakers to pass the kind of tax cuts he originally called for -- a property tax rebate that would go only to residents of school districts that limit spending growth, and an education tax credit that could be used to pay tuition at private and parochial schools. But he made it clear that he could live with what remained of the budget after his vetoes.
 Going forward, there is a bit of a disconnect. All 212 seats in the Legislature are up for election in November, and lawmakers are eager to spend more while cutting taxes. The governor is leaving office at the end of the year, and setting his sights on an arena where fiscal conservatism is more highly valued than it is in New York.
 So as stinging denunciations of Mr. Pataki began to pour in by afternoon from some of the most powerful forces in New York politics -- teachers' unions, health care groups, and others -- there did not seem to be much concern on the second floor of the Capitol, where the governor works. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); LOBBYING (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (52%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) Vetoes (US); Governors (US); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: Michael Cooper; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2006



295 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: Tycoon of Chinese Real Estate Is Leasing at Trade Center Site

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
His office here on the other side of the world is stocked with ancient Chinese classics. When he travels, his suitcase is often packed with philosophical tracts. Occasionally, he quotes Mao.
 But Feng Lun is no academic. He is one of China's biggest real estate tycoons. And he is heading to New York City, as the only major tenant so far at the World Trade Center site.
Mr. Feng's real estate company, the Vantone Group, has just agreed to lease the top five floors of the rebuilt 7 World Trade Center, the 52-story glass tower that overlooks ground zero. 
 Mr. Feng intends to open what he calls a business and cultural ''China Center'' in 2007 in the building, the first skyscraper built downtown since 1987. ''We're going to do something bold,'' he said in an interview. ''I think the world will pay attention to our project.'' 
 Feng Lun (pronounced Fung LEW-in) is a pioneer of China's booming real estate market, so influential that some of the biggest names in American real estate, like Jerry Speyer, Mortimer Zuckerman and Sam Zell, have expressed an interest in forming a partnership with him. 
 In early 2005, Gov. George E. Pataki and a group of high-powered corporate chief executives traveled to China to negotiate with Chinese executives and government officials.
 After a yearlong courtship, Mr. Feng and his Vantone Group entered into a nonbinding agreement with Larry A. Silverstein, the developer, in January to lease 200,000 square feet of space for an estimated $53 per square foot to start, or about $200 million over 15 years, including price escalators. 
 And the Vantone Group is one of the few companies even considering a lease -- as much as 500,000 more square feet -- in the troubled Freedom Tower project. The deal might be seen as a good-will gesture by China, which has a troubling and widening trade surplus with the United States. 
 ''They are the first major commercial tenant to come into the World Trade Center site,'' said Kathryn Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City, a business advocacy group. ''So it's a very important commitment. And it is highly valued by the city and the state. We hope it's a magnet.'' 
 But why does Mr. Feng, a developer more familiar with the Great Hall of the People and the Forbidden City, want to be in New York City?
 ''A few years ago, the Chinese government encouraged companies to go abroad, and New York is the center; New York is the place to be,'' he said. ''Also, in New York a lot of companies want to know Chinese companies. They want to do business with Chinese companies.''
 Mr. Feng, 47, is no stranger to big deals. He has extensive high-level contacts in the Chinese government and industry. His Vantone Group has a huge portfolio of office towers, shopping malls, high-rise apartments and luxury villas that will soon span more than 27 million square feet in China, a portfolio bigger than those held by most of New York's largest developers. One of his biggest apartment projects in Beijing is even called Central Park. 
 ''He's about as big as they get,'' said Vincent Luk, the Beijing-based general manager of DTZ Debenham Tie Leung, an international property consultancy. ''Many of these guys came from government, and then they got into the real estate business. And now they're stars.''
 In person, Mr. Feng is charming and affable. Dressed casually in jeans and a green army vest, he smiled and chuckled frequently, as when he described his company's unusual ethics policy. ''I have three rules for people in this company,'' he said half in jest. ''One, you shouldn't have a second job. Two, you should never transfer money abroad. And three, you shouldn't have a foreign passport. You shouldn't be ready to run off to Europe.''
 He is, by most accounts, an unusual businessman, especially in China. He stresses vision and serving his country as much as the bottom line. He said his real interests were history, Marx, Hegel and Mao. 
 Then there are the pictures of Che Guevara and Yasser Arafat in his office. He explained that they were both revolutionaries, emphasizing that he admired Mr. Arafat's discipline and courage, not his politics.
 ''He spent his whole life trying to achieve one thing,'' Mr. Feng said. ''He had great determination; real perseverance.'' 
 Mr. Feng grew up in northwest China, in the heart of coal country, during the Cultural Revolution, when the nation was disintegrating into chaos in the late 1960's and early 70's. His family fled the city of Xi'an amid violence. ''It was a very chaotic period,'' he said. ''I saw my teachers denounced. Some of them couldn't take it and went crazy. That period left a deep impression on me.''
 Mr. Feng studied economics at Northwest China University and then entered the Central Party School in Beijing, where future political leaders were trained. He taught Marxism and Leninism there after earning a Ph.D. in law. 
 Later, he joined an economic research bureau of the government but lost his job when the bureau was dissolved in 1989 because of its close ties to Zhao Ziyang, who was removed as general secretary that year for sympathizing with the student protestors who occupied Tiananmen Square.
 Mr. Feng went to work for Mou Qizhong, then one of the richest men in China, helping to sell military weapons to the Soviet Union. (Mr. Mou was later sentenced to life in prison in 2000 for defrauding a state bank of $75 million.) 
 In 1991, Mr. Feng and a group of friends founded the Vantone Group, one of the country's first private real estate companies. The group bought and sold villas on the Chinese island of Hainan, then moved to Beijing just as the real estate market was opening up. The group became a real estate powerhouse, often by anticipating the government's development goals. 
 Today, Vantone has prime land in Beijing's new central business district and also other strategic locations in a city building feverishly ahead of the 2008 Olympic games.
 While other developers are better known in Beijing, Mr. Feng is the first to go abroad in a big way. He first learned about the specifics of the ground zero project at a real estate training program at Columbia University in 2003. 
 Later, he met Mr. Silverstein and offered to invest in 7 World Trade Center (the developer demurred) before hitting on the idea of leasing space there as a hub for Chinese and American businesses.
 He said the Chinese government gave him approvals and tax breaks but no money.
 Now, Mr. Feng is working aggressively to find Chinese tenants. He's also asked a team of designers, including Weng Ling, the director of the fashionable Shanghai Gallery of Art, to create a cultural space. His plans include a media center, a tourism center and space that Chinese companies can rent while making the transition to New York.
 Publicly at least, he is not concerned about the political infighting that has stalled the rebuilding at ground zero. His career in China has made him comfortable with projects that mix the public and private sectors. ''I believe because of the government policy, they'll rebuild it,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Feng Lun at Central Park, an apartment complex his group developed in Beijing. They are seeking real estate investments in New York City. (Photo by Miranda Mimi Kuo for The New York Times)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); PROPERTY LEASES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%) United States International Relations; Area Planning and Renewal; Seven World Trade Center (NYC); Renting and Leasing ; World Trade Center (NYC)

COMPANY: EVERGRANDE REAL ESTATE GROUP LTD (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Vantone Group (Corp)

TICKER: 3333 (HKSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (92%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (92%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (92%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (92%)

PERSON: David Barboza; Feng Lun; Larry Silverstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; China

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2006



296 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Vice Chairman Rebuffs Critics of Turnaround 

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
The vice chairman of General Motors, Robert A. Lutz, yesterday offered the company's bluntest rebuff yet of critics who say a turnaround at the ailing automaker is failing to gain steam.
 Taking on Wall Street analysts, the media and even President Bush, Mr. Lutz accused G.M.'s critics of having a ''herd mentality'' and overlooking significant steps the company has taken toward financial stability.
''The so-called experts are somewhat blind to what is actually happening in the marketplace,'' Mr. Lutz, a Swiss native, said in a speech to the Swiss-American Chamber of Commerce in New York. ''At some point if you listen to that stuff, and you let it guide your actions, it becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy. So, we're not going to listen to the naysayers. I'm convinced that they're wrong.'' 
 Mr. Lutz also hinted that G.M., in its negotiations next year with the United Automobile Workers union, would be asking for significant concessions. G.M. executives have generally shied away from remarks about what they may seek in the talks.
 ''We just have to open it up all in that contract,'' Mr. Lutz said. ''The summer of '07 is going to be kind of a watershed year where we really have to make a fundamental change in a lot of the cost structure of doing business in the United States.''
 After the speech, Mr. Lutz said the likelihood of a strike at Delphi, the auto parts maker that G.M. spun off in 1999, was ''less than 10 percent,'' adding, ''A strike benefits no one.'' 
 Mr. Lutz's comments about G.M.'s prospects were the latest move in a company public relations offensive that is pushing back against the analysts and others who question whether it is moving fast enough to fix itself. ''We are removing the gloves at G.M. and are going to be much more aggressive about telling our side of the story,'' Mr. Lutz said after his speech. ''It's time to strike back.''
 Notably, Mr. Lutz provided a much more optimistic assessment of General Motors' recovery plans than other company executives have. Earlier in the day, Mr. Lutz told reporters at the New York International Auto Show that he thought the worst of G.M.'s financial crisis had passed. ''We've hit the inflection point,'' he said. ''In five years, General Motors is going to be in better shape than it's ever been in its history.''
 Those comments go further than recent remarks by G.M.'s chief executive, Rick Wagoner, who has declined to offer a forecast for the company in 2006, or say when he expects the company to return to profitability. G.M. lost $10.6 billion in 2005, when its market share was the lowest since the mid-1930's.
 Mr. Lutz said G.M. could still be profitable with a 25 percent share of the American auto market, if it can keep its incentives low and increase its profit margins.
 Mr. Lutz also offered a defense of Mr. Wagoner, whose future as G.M.'s chief executive has been clouded by questions about whether he is moving fast enough to stabilize the company. Mr. Wagoner is facing pressure to right G.M.'s course. ''This is the best, most thoughtful, most stable guy I've ever worked with,'' said Mr. Lutz, a four-decade veteran of the auto industry. ''Mark my word, read my lips: Rick Wagoner will preside over the turnaround.'' 
 Mr. Lutz, a cigar-chomping, permanently tan former Marine fighter pilot, is not known for holding his tongue. In fact, at last year's New York auto show he ignited speculation that G.M. could eliminate its Buick and Pontiac lines by referring to them in a speech as ''damaged brands.'' Mr. Lutz later said his remarks were taken out of context, but they created enough of a stir that G.M. had to reassure dealers there were no plans to cut any of its brands. 
 Yesterday, that same off-the-cuff demeanor was again on display. Few G.M. skeptics were spared. Mr. Lutz took issue with a statement by President Bush earlier this year that G.M. ''needs to develop a product that's relevant.'' Responded Mr. Lutz: ''I'm a lifelong Republican, by the way. But next time around, Hillary, here I come. I'm a protest vote.''
 He also took issue with people who, he said, were indifferent to the American automakers' loss of market share to Asian companies. ''People who think it doesn't matter who owns our automobile industry are flat wrong,'' he said, adding that it was ''fiction'' that foreign automakers were becoming more American as they build plants here. ''They are not producing. For the most part, they are assembling. The parts mostly come from overseas. The profits are partially invested in the United States but not necessarily.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''In five years, General Motors is going to be in better shape than it's ever been in its history,'' Robert A. Lutz, General Motors vice chairman, said at the New York International Auto Show yesterday. (Photo by Daniel Acker/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (72%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); HERD BEHAVIOR (71%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (50%) Automobiles; Labor; Organized Labor; Givebacks (Collective Bargaining)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp; United Automobile Workers

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (58%) Robert A Lutz; Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2006



297 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 2913 words

PERSON: Rev. William Sloane Coffin Jr.

HEADLINE: Rev. William Sloane Coffin Dies at 81; Fought for Civil Rights and Against a War 

BYLINE: By MARC D. CHARNEY

 BODY:
The Rev. William Sloane Coffin Jr., a civil rights and antiwar campaigner who sought to inspire and encourage an idealistic and rebellious generation of college students in the 1960's from his position as chaplain of Yale University, then reveled in the role of lightning rod thrust upon him by officials and conservatives who thought him and his style of dissent dangerous, died yesterday at his home in Strafford, Vt. He was 81.
 The cause was congestive heart failure, said his daughter, Amy Coffin. She said he had recently been under hospice care.
Dr. Coffin, a believer in the power of civil disobedience to bring social and political change, was arrested as a Freedom Rider early in the 1960's and was an early admirer of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. 
 An ordained Presbyterian minister, he embraced a philosophy that put social activism at the heart of his clerical duties. In the late 1970's, when he became senior minister of Riverside Church in New York -- an institution long known for its social agenda -- he used his ministry to draw attention to the plight of the poor, to question American political and military power, to encourage interfaith understanding, and to campaign for nuclear disarmament. Courage, he preached over the years, was the first virtue, because ''it makes all other virtues possible.'' 
 In his later years, he devoted himself to antiwar crusades, advocating a nuclear freeze, opposing the 1991 war in the Persian Gulf and speaking out against the invasion of Iraq in 2003. But he did not consider himself a pacifist, and when genocide broke out in Bosnia, he asserted that there were times when international intervention with force was justified.
 But it was as the outspoken chaplain at Yale in the tumultuous years when the Vietnam War was escalating that Dr. Coffin's name became known across America. While he questioned the wisdom of the war almost from the start, he came only slowly to a decision to apply to this cause the same tactics of civil disobedience he had already engaged in on behalf of the struggle for integration in the South.
 Yet when he did, the spectacle he created -- the chaplain of an Ivy League university counseling students that they were right to resist the draft, and accepting their draft cards to be turned in to the Justice Department -- so infuriated the Johnson administration that Attorney General Ramsey Clark, himself a prominent liberal, sought to imprison him. 
 In one of the most celebrated trials of the day, Dr. Coffin, Dr. Benjamin Spock and three others were accused of conspiracy to encourage draft evasion. Dr. Coffin, Dr. Spock and two others were convicted, but the verdicts were overturned on appeal. The case became a cause celebre for the antiwar left and civil libertarians, who considered the prosecution's eventual failure an incomplete vindication of the right of free speech.
 Dr. Coffin had a distinctive view of his own role as a dissenter. His argument with American social practices and political policies, he said, was that of a partner engaged in a ''lovers' quarrel.'' It was a position he could claim almost as a birthright, considering his lineage and the patrician positions he held.
 His forebears traced to the Pilgrims, and his father, also named William Sloane Coffin, was a vice president of W. & J. Sloane, the furniture manufacturers, and president of the board of trustees of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. His uncle, the Rev. Henry Sloane Coffin, was president of Union Theological Seminary and the principal influence on his entry into the ministry.
 And for almost all of Dr. Coffin's adult life, his service was performed in one or another institution near the heart of power and prestige: the Central Intelligence Agency, Andover, Williams College, Yale, and then Riverside Church, which had been built as an interdenominational house of worship with financing from John D. Rockefeller Jr.
 So if Dr. Coffin preached on behalf of the poor and the downtrodden, he did so to the most prominent and talented of parishioners.
 His enthusiastic ministry to the Vietnam generation at Yale prompted a Yale alumnus of those years, the cartoonist Garry Trudeau, to gently lampoon him as the offbeat Rev. Scot Sloan (''the thoroughly modern minister/enabler'') in ''Doonesbury.'' 
 Another Yale man of the time, President Bush, has spoken of a less affectionate memory: After Mr. Bush's father lost a Senate race in 1964 to Senator Ralph Yarborough, Dr. Coffin told the young man, then a freshman, student that he knew his father and that the better man had won. (Dr. Coffin disputed the anecdote.)
 After Dr. Coffin left Yale, disgust on the part of alumni with his political activities was often blamed for a decline in alumni contributions. But Yale was not the only university to deal with that problem in the 1970's. 
 Moreover, Dr. Coffin made the case that by addressing the anger, fears and frustrated idealism of the students, the Yale administration may have helped the university avoid the kind of fractures that left far deeper scars at Columbia and other universities.
 William Sloane Coffin Jr. was born on June 1, 1924, in Manhattan. His father and his mother, Catherine Butterfield Coffin, were rearing him, a brother and a sister in a penthouse that occupied the 15th and 16th floors of a building on East 68th Street when the father died of a heart attack in December 1933. He had slipped and fallen on the steps of the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
 With money less plentiful, Mrs. Coffin took the three children to Carmel-by-the-Sea in California. She also took them to Paris, where young William studied harmony in hopes of becoming a classical pianist. The interest in music continued at Phillips Academy at Andover, from which he graduated in 1942, and for a year at Yale's music school. Then he entered the Army and was sent to Europe as an infantry officer.
 Because of his facility with languages, he was made a liaison to the French and, later, the Russian Army. In 1946, he took part in operations to forcibly repatriate Soviet citizens who had been taken prisoner and who, once repatriated, were never heard from again. The deceptions in which he took part to gain the prisoners' trust before handing them over, he wrote in his memoir, ''Once to Every Man'' (Atheneum, 1977), ''left me a burden of guilt I am sure to carry the rest of my life.''
 ''Certainly,'' he added, ''it influenced my decision in 1950 to spend three years in the C.I.A. opposing Stalin's regime.'' 
 His reference was to the years of the Korean War, which he spent in the C.I.A. after being recruited by a brother-in-law who was a top agency official. In Germany, he helped send anti-Soviet Russians back into Russia; they would parachute in by night and work against the Soviet regime in paramilitary teams. 
 ''I had seen that Stalin could occasionally make look Hitler look like a Boy Scout,'' Dr. Coffin explained last year to a reporter for The New York Times, Tim Weiner, who was preparing a history of the C.I.A. ''I was very anti-Soviet but very pro-Russian.'' But Soviet intelligence detected nearly all of the efforts, and Dr. Coffin said the missions nearly always ended in disaster. ''It didn't work,'' he said. ''It was a fundamentally bad idea. We were quite naive about the use of American power.''
 The years in the spy agency, it turned out, were only an interlude. Before joining it in 1950, he had left the Army as a captain in 1947, returned to Yale and earned a degree in government. In 1949, he was captivated by the possibilities of a religious vocation when, at the urging of his Uncle Henry, he attended a conference at Union Theological Seminary and heard Reinhold Niebuhr and prominent ministers from Harlem speak.
 So when he returned to the United States in 1953, it was to study for the ministry at Yale Divinity School. When he graduated in 1956, he returned to Andover as the school's acting chaplain.
 That year he also married Eva Anna Rubenstein, an actor and dancer who was the daughter of the pianist Artur Rubenstein. The couple had three children before the marriage ended in divorce in 1968. 
 After spending a year at Williams College as chaplain, Dr. Coffin was named to the chaplain's post at Yale in 1958. The civil rights struggle was heating up, and he was arrested three times when he went south to join it. The arrests came in 1961, while taking part in a Freedom Ride in Montgomery, Ala.; in 1963, while protesting segregation at an amusement park near Baltimore; and in 1964, at a St. Augustine, Fla., lunch counter that he and others were trying to integrate.
 Dr. Coffin said aides to Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy had tried to dissuade the Freedom Riders from making their trip in 1961. That first arrest caused some surprise at Yale. But Dr. Coffin said he was only setting a moral example. 
 ''Every minister is given two roles, the priestly and the prophetic,''' he said later that year. ''The prophetic role is the disturber of the peace, to bring the minister himself, the congregation and entire moral order some judgment.''
 The athletic and voluble Dr. Coffin became a familiar figure on Yale's campus, riding his motor scooter, joking with students and challenging them to stand up for what they thought. But by 1967, the campus that had largely welcomed him back from Montgomery as a man of courage was convulsed with the passion surrounding the Vietnam War. 
 Much of the turmoil was over the draft, from which young men in college were exempt but which was waiting for them as soon as they left academia. Dr. Coffin, a critic of the country's war policy since 1965, had been a founder of a group called Clergy and Laity Concerned About Vietnam. But he had concluded that letter-writing and seeking out policy makers and members of Congress were having no effect.
 In 1967, he chose a course of civil disobedience. First, he offered the chapel at Yale as a sanctuary for those who were refusing to serve in Vietnam.
 Then, on Oct. 16 of that year, as a major demonstration at the Pentagon itself was being planned, Dr. Coffin helped preside at a service at the Arlington Street Church in Boston at which young men who were resisting the draft turned over their draft cards to him for delivery to the Justice Department. Dr. Coffin and three others left about 185 draft cards and 175 classification notices at the Justice Department in Washington on Oct. 20, a Friday, even as the capital braced for a weekend of demonstrations. 
 Dr. Coffin told James Reston, a Times columnist, that his effort was intended to mount a ''fair and dignified'' legal challenge to the draft, and his statement to the Justice Department made it clear that the protesters were courting arrest as a symbolic act -- a position in accord with his statements that civil disobedience required confronting the draft and accepting the legal consequences. 
 There was no immediate arrest, however, as the capital focused on the confrontations in the streets between radical protesters and helmeted troops outside the Pentagon. But on Jan. 5, 1968, the Justice Department came back with a far more serious charge than the defendants had expected. It indicted Dr. Coffin, Dr. Spock and the three others on charges that they had engaged in a conspiracy to counsel draft evasion. 
 Dr. Coffin said he had not pushed the thought of draft evasion on anyone who did not already have it, but the government argued that this defied common sense, given the persuasive power that someone of his standing would have when he took a position or set an example.
 Dr. Coffin, Dr. Spock and two of the other three were convicted of conspiracy, but the verdicts were overturned on appeal, largely because of errors made by the judge. Dr. Coffin could have been retried, but the government chose not to do so.
 The case left him a national figure of protest -- lionized by the left, vilified by the right, and puzzled over by his superiors at Yale.
 Kingman Brewster Jr., an expert on constitutional law who would himself fall afoul of the Nixon administration, was Yale's president, and his reactions said a great deal about the difficulties Dr. Coffin's brand of conscience could present.
 Eight days after Dr. Coffin turned in the draft cards in Washington, Mr. Brewster gave a speech to parents of Yale students and said, ''I disagree with the chaplain's position on draft resistance, and in this instance deplore his style.''
 Two years later, after Dr. Coffin's conviction was overturned but before the government dropped the case, Mr. Brewster stood before entering freshmen and held up Dr. Coffin and Mayor John V. Lindsay of New York as two men who were ''wholly unashamed of their high purpose.''
 He drew applause when he criticized the draft as ''a system of conscription which makes the campus a draft haven and distorts career choices in an effort to avoid service in a war nobody wants to fight.''
 If the draft issue proved a political minefield for those seeking to hold Yale together, the pattern became only more complex as the war dragged on into the Nixon administration and another incendiary issue came to the forefront: the prosecution of Black Panthers in New Haven on kidnapping and murder charges.
 In the spring of 1970, a constellation of spokesmen for the radical left -- among them Tom Hayden of Students for a Democratic Society, David Dellinger of the antiwar movement, Abbie Hoffman and Jerry Rubin of the Yippies, the poet Allen Ginsberg and Black Panther leaders -- convened a giant rally just outside the Yale campus to protest both the prosecution of the Panthers and the conduct of the war. Officials throughout the Northeast feared an explosion of violence at Yale's doorstep. National Guard troops were sent into New Haven.
 Among Yale's students and faculty, political sympathy for the left ran high, but so did a concern to prevent violence. Students organized a group of marshals to keep tempers cool. 
 Dr. Coffin met with rally organizers, who chose to put the most fiery speakers on in the morning and the more boring ones on as night, with its potential for disruption, was about to fall. He served on a committee of monitors. And on the one night when events threatened to get out of hand, he helped persuade a National Guard commander to keep his troops inconspicuous.
 In the end, the gathering proceeded largely peacefully, and when it was over many at Yale basked briefly in self-congratulation that the threat of serious violence had been averted. 
 Then came news that four young protesters had been killed when troops opened fire at Kent State University in Ohio, where a remarkably similar stage had been set that week -- tense national guardsmen facing angry students -- but with less success at controlling tempers and fears.
 In September 1972, Dr. Coffin was a member of group of clergy and peace activists who went to Hanoi to accompany three released prisoners of war on their return to the United States.
 He remained chaplain of Yale until 1976, when he stepped down to work with world hunger programs and write his memoir. A few months later, he separated from his second wife, Harriet Gibney, whom he had married in 1969. That marriage, like his first, ended in divorce and he remarried once more, to Virginia Randolph Wilson, who survives him.
 Besides his daughter, by his first marriage, Amy, of Oakland, Calif., Dr. Coffin is survived by a son by his first marriage, David Coffin, of Gloucester, Mass.; his brother, NedCoffin, of Strafford; his sister, Margot Lindsay, of Newton, Mass.; three grandchildren; two stepchildren, Jessica Tidman, of Strafford, and Wil Tidman, of San Francisco; and four stepgrandchildren. Another son by his first marriage, Alexander, died in 1983.
 Dr. Coffin was appointed to the ministry at Riverside Church in 1978. There, he promoted international arms control and mobilized congregants to work on local issues like unemployment and juvenile delinquency. 
 In 1979, he was one of three American clergymen who, along with a fourth from Algeria, went to Tehran at their own expense to help the American hostages held there celebrate Christmas. In the 1980's, after leaving Riverside, he was a leader of Sane/Freeze, an organization that campaigned for disarmament and a freeze on nuclear testing.
 Dr. Coffin's activities slowed considerably in the 1990's, and in 1999 he suffered a stroke. But he continued to write and speak out from his home in Strafford. In the spring and fall of 2003, he spoke out repeatedly in criticism of the war President Bush was leading in Iraq. Last October, he founded an organization of religious leaders calling for the elimination of nuclear arms. 
 In the fall of 2003, he preached at Riverside Church again, on World Communion Sunday, after being introduced by Kofi Annan, the secretary general of the United Nations. His voice resonant, even though his speech was slow and somewhat slurred, Dr. Coffin told the congregants that there was ''a huge difference between patriotism and nationalism.''
 ''Patriotism at the expense of another nation is as wicked as racism at the expense of another race,'' he declared, adding: ''Let us resolve to be patriots always, nationalists never. Let us love our country, but pledge allegiance to the earth and to the flora and fauna and human life that it supports -- one planet indivisible, with clean air, soil and water; with liberty, justice and peace for all.''


CORRECTION-DATE: April 15, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Thursday about about the Rev. Dr. William Sloane Coffin, the civil rights and antiwar campaigner, misspelled the name of his first wife and the surname of her father. She was Eva Anna Rubinstein, not Rubenstein; her father was the pianist Arthur Rubinstein.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Rev. William Sloane Coffin Jr. after his release from jail in Montgomery, Ala., in May 1961. The soldiers were there to protect him. (Photo by United Press International)
In July 1968, Dr. Coffin helped Barry Johnson, a draft resister, during a protest in front of St. Paul's Church in Lower Manhattan. (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)
 From his pulpit in Riverside Church in May 1982, Dr. Coffin spoke against the arms race and war, a week before an antinuclear rally. (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); CIVIL RIGHTS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); HOSPICE (76%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (75%); RELIGION (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); HEART DISEASE (71%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (71%); CONSPIRACY (69%); ARRESTS (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (69%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (66%); IRAQ WAR (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%); GENOCIDE (64%); VERDICTS (63%); APPEALS (60%) Blacks; Deaths (Obituaries); Vietnam War; Riverside Church (NYC); Biographical Information; Draft and Recruitment (Military); Demonstrations and Riots; Blacks

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (58%); CAMPAIGN FOR NUCLEAR DISARMAMENT (55%)

MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%) William Sloane Jr (Rev) Coffin; Marc D Charney

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (54%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (69%)

CATEGORY: Social Activism

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2006



298 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Massachusetts Legislation On Insurance Becomes Law

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK and KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: BOSTON, April 12 

 BODY:
In a ceremony full of pomp and political backpatting, Gov. Mitt Romney signed Massachusetts' landmark health care legislation Wednesday, setting the stage for the state to be the first to provide health coverage to virtually all of its citizens.
 But the celebratory atmosphere was accompanied by some friction because Mr. Romney, a Republican, vetoed a provision some Democrats and health care advocates adamantly support: a requirement that employers who do not provide health insurance to their employees pay the state up to $295 per worker each year. 
 Leaders of the overwhelmingly Democratic legislature, which passed the bill last week, said they expected to override that veto in the next few weeks and were examining Mr. Romney's vetoes of seven other less controversial provisions.
 The signing ceremony, complete with fife and drum corps, was held in the historic Faneuil Hall before 300 ticketed guests. Speakers included Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, who last shared the Faneuil Hall stage with Mr. Romney in 1994 at a debate in Mr. Romney's unsuccessful campaign for Mr. Kennedy's Senate seat. Now, Mr. Romney is considering running for president in 2008, and the success of the bipartisan health care plan could become a major selling point of his candidacy.
 The event reflected only a shade of the political distance between Mr. Romney and the state's Democratic lawmakers. Representative Salvatore F. DiMasi, the speaker of the House, chided Mr. Romney for his line-item vetoes, saying: ''Governor Romney, if you change anything, you will disturb the delicate balance that made this law possible. Every element is critical to accomplishing this law's goals.''
 Mostly, however, the tone was congratulatory.
 ''This isn't 100 percent of what anyone in this room wanted,'' Mr. Romney said. ''But the differences between us are small.''
 Mr. Kennedy said, ''You may well have fired the shot heard round the world on health care in America. I hope so.''
 The law is projected to provide coverage for about 515,000 of the state's 550,000 uninsured people and leave less than 1 percent of the population uncovered. It goes further than those of any other state.
 It requires residents to obtain health insurance by July 1, 2007. People who can afford insurance and do not buy it will be penalized on their state income taxes.
 The law takes the $1 billion in the state's free-care pool, which paid for medical care for patients without insurance, and uses it to subsidize insurance for people who cannot afford it. The legislation also makes it possible for more individuals and businesses to buy insurance with pre-tax dollars, saving them money. And it includes a system to encourage insurance companies to provide more affordable plans with fewer benefits or higher deductibles.
 Several details have yet to be worked out, and questions remain about whether enough affordable plans can be created to allow everyone to afford coverage.
 The law also expands some Medicaid coverage, including coverage for children. Mr. Romney vetoed a provision that reinstated dental coverage for adults, saying it would cost $75 million a year and was a benefit not provided by most employers.
 The legislation, months in the making, almost fell apart over disagreements about whether businesses should be charged and how much if they were. Mr. Romney wanted no business fee. Mr. DiMasi wanted a much higher business assessment of 5 percent of a company's payroll, but Senator Robert E. Travaglini, a Democrat who is president of Senate, was against any business contribution because he worried that it would adversely affect the economy.
 Mr. Romney said in an interview last week that the bill's charge of $295 per worker, which would yield about $48 million a year, was ''not necessary for funding'' the law. He also said that $295 was ''such a small figure,'' much less than the cost of insurance, ''that it doesn't have any significant incentive value'' to encourage companies to insure their workers.
 On Wednesday, Mr. Romney told reporters, ''There were many businesses that have been flooding my office with calls as well as business associations that were very concerned about it,'' adding, ''There's no reason to put an extra charge on certain employers.''
 But several health care advocates and some hospital and business leaders said Wednesday that the fee was fair and reasonable. Mr. DiMasi, in an interview last week, said: ''I see a significant commitment of businesses to contribute in some way to the insurance costs of the uninsured. I see this as a significant principle, whatever the dollar figure is.''
 Mr. Romney said the law would be ''a big part of the legacy I will have personally for my four years of service as governor.'' 
 ''But,'' he added, ''I have no way of telling if it's going to be a help or a hindrance down the road.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, joined by, from left, Dr. Robert Moffit of the Heritage Foundation, State Senator Robert E. Travaglini, Speaker Salvatore F. DiMasi and Senator Edward M. Kennedy, signed health care legislation into law yesterday. At right, some of the 300 ticketed guests applauded during the ceremony at Faneuil Hall in Boston. (Photographs by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (92%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); INSURANCE LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); INSURANCE (71%); TAX LAW (70%); INCOME TAX (50%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (89%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Law and Legislation; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (59%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); TED KENNEDY (89%) Pam Belluck; Katie Zezima; Mitt (Gov) Romney

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2006



299 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; HAVENS Tannersville, N.Y.; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1714 words

HEADLINE: A More Sedate Catskills Outlives the Borscht Belt 

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
FOR a good part of the 20th century, summer in the Catskills was synonymous with ''Dirty Dancing''-style resorts and modest closet-size bungalows. What were less celebrated were its steep, hemlock-draped peaks -- notched and curved like teeth on a saw -- and its impressive collection of large vacation homes from an even earlier era.
 Many of these stately houses, dating from the 19th century, are in Tannersville, a village in Hunter Township in Greene County, and in its surroundings, which include the hamlet of Haines Falls and the tightly knit enclaves of Elka Park, Twilight Park and Onteora Park.
In the winter, Tannersville is known for its proximity to the Hunter Mountain ski area, which attracts a weekend crowd of party-minded young Manhattanites. But when the snow disappears and the mountains' green beauty breaks through, Tannersville is a haven of relaxation and simplicity. And its allure, local real estate professionals say, is attracting more second-home buyers and causing prices to rise. 
 Gerard Maione, who owns a vintage clothing store in SoHo and lives in TriBeCa, and his wife, Karen, a creative director for the business, bought a 3,000-square-foot farmhouse from a bank for $116,000 in 2002. 
 The house, built in 1898, has four bedrooms and three and a half baths and sits on 1.2 acres. If it were still in its original condition, he said, it might cost $150,000 today. But because he added new electrical, plumbing and heating systems, as well as windows, shingles and a roof, it might be worth as much as $800,000, he said.
 ''The first time I came up here, it was 1987, I was a sophomore in college, and I was visiting my roommate's parents,'' said Mr. Maione, now 38. ''I was blown away by the natural beauty, and knew I wanted to live here someday.''

The Scene
 The nature that Mr. Maione referred to is estimable. 
 Tannersville is in Catskill Park, whose 300,000 acres of protected public land -- including 98 peaks of more than 3,000 feet -- also includes waterfalls, streams, lakes, fire towers and even the ruins of abandoned hotels. The parkland is ideal for hiking, camping, mountain biking and fishing. 
 The Twilight Park and Elka Park areas include elegant private communities built at the turn of the 20th century when these mountains seemed like the edge of the frontier. They have pools, tennis courts and clubhouses for members. The private Onteora Club, in the Onteora Park area, has similar amenities and a nine-hole golf course.
 Tannersville offers many striking views, like those from Route 16, known as Devil's Kitchen, a vertigo-inducing road that slices through the lush valley of Indian Head, much of which is off-limits to development.
 That Indian Head view was what closed the deal for Ivan and Viera Bolcek-- he is an architect, she a sales manager for an airline -- who bought a 43-year-old 3,500-square-foot former restaurant (with an apartment for the owner) with five bedrooms and five baths, on 84 acres of land, including a tennis court, for $275,000 in 1986. 
 They also liked that, compared with the Hamptons, where they used to rent, the social scene is less intense. ''People keep to themselves here,'' Ms. Bolcek said. She said that a typical Saturday night was spent at home, cooking and entertaining guests.
 If you want to eat out locally, the options are fairly slim but expanding. Along Tannersville's three-block, one-stoplight commercial strip are Maggie's Krooked Cafe, known for blueberry muffins, or Pancho Villa's Mexican Restaurant, for strawberry margaritas.
 Joining them in February was the Village Bistro, which occupies a former coffee shop next to Gooseberry Creek. The bistro building was renovated by the Hunter Foundation, a not-for-profit organization that buys buildings, fixes them up, rents them out and then sells them to the tenants.
 The restaurants exude a casual vibe -- they're the kinds of places ''you can show up in a T-shirt with dirt under your fingernails,'' said Jeff Summer, a partner at a consulting firm in Manhattan. 
 Mr. Summer bought a towering shingle home with eight bedrooms, six bathrooms and eight fireplaces, on 17 acres, for $650,000 in 1998. He was attracted to Tannersville, he said, by the mountains, which reminded him of his native Washington State. 
 In summer 2007, downtown will see the opening of the 12,500-square-foot Orpheum Performing Arts Center, incorporating a former movie theater, said Peter Finn, the chairman and co-founder of the Catskill Mountain Foundation, a nonprofit group involved in reviving Tannersville and other Catskills areas.

Pros
 Getting to Tannersville from Manhattan by car takes about two and half hours in light traffic, less than it takes on a Friday night to many parts of the Hamptons. 

Cons
 In the mid-20th century, when much of Tannersville fell out of favor as a summer community, some of its larger houses were abandoned or taken over by religious groups. Others have never been winterized.
 Jane Curley, an art historian from TriBeCa who has lectured about the area's history, owns a four-bedroom, three-bathroom house on the grounds of the Onteora Club, which was originally an artists' colony. The floors of the house, built in 1893, sloped so badly, she said, that she had to put in a new foundation. 

The Real Estate Market
 About 60 percent of Tannersville's residents are part-timers. Some go year-round, some just for summer and some just for skiing. In addition to its older stately homes, the community also has a sizable stock of smaller-scale log cabins, A-frame chalets, modular homes and gingerbread cottages. 
 The houses, like many throughout this still economically depressed area, are frequently in need of repairs or upgrades -- and it can be hard to find suitable contractors, residents said. But, brokers said, the houses can cost as little as a quarter of what a similar size home would run in a trendier vacation locale. 
 Prices average about $300,000, brokers said. At the low end, a three-bedroom, two-bathroom house, about 50 years old and closer to the village, on an acre or less, is about $185,000; about $600,000 will get a house built in the last 10 years, with four or five bedrooms and as many baths, on three acres well outside the village.
 Houses in the private portions of Twilight Park and Elka Park and at the Onteora Club rarely appear in the multiple listings, brokers say. Instead, sellers find buyers by word of mouth. Buying a house in the private sections of Twilight Park and Elka Park, where the land is owned by a community association and leased to homeowners, requires approval by a board, as does living on the Onteora Club grounds.
 After a lull of a few years, the area is starting to see new construction, including a nine-home gated subdivision, Pleasant View Park, to be built off Route 23A. Ground is to be broken this spring, said Judith Brown of Gene Gordon Realty. A three-bedroom, three-bathroom house on a half acre with a pool is listed at $650,000, she said. 
 Win Morrison, who owns a real estate agency in nearby Kingston, said that in the last five years, home prices in Tannersville have climbed 50 percent -- and 100 percent or more inside the private enclaves. 
 In March 2005, Mark Alonso, a Manhattan lawyer, paid $1.3 million for a 12,000-square-foot, four-story, nine-bedroom house in Onteora Park that once belonged to the actress Maude Adams, who was famous for playing Peter Pan.
 Mr. Alonso, who used to weekend in a home he owns in Westhampton, said he didn't mind Tannersville's relative remoteness. ''There are three Carvels on the road on the way back,'' he said, ''and Woodbury Common'' -- a popular outlet shopping center -- ''if you are desperate for civilization.'' 

LAY OF THE LAND

POPULATION -- About 3,000 year-round and about 6,000 in the peak of summer in Hunter Township, which includes Tannersville.

SIZE -- About 90 square miles in all of Hunter Township.

WHO'S BUYING -- Solitude seekers and Hamptons exiles from New York and New Jersey; those who like sweeping views and older architecture.

GETTING THERE -- From the George Washington Bridge, take the Palisades Parkway to the New York State Thruway north to Exit 20, Saugerties. Follow Route 32 north for about seven miles, take Route 32A for two miles, then turn left on Route 23A and continue for seven miles into Tannersville. For the Onteora Park area, go right at the stoplight onto Route 23C and follow it up the hill for two miles. For Elka Park, go left at the stoplight onto Route 16 and follow it for two miles.

WHILE YOU'RE LOOKING -- The Deer Mountain Inn (790 Route 25, Onteora Park; 518-589-6268; www.deermountaininn.com), built in the late 19th century as part of a Colgate family estate, features worn Oriental carpets on the floor and animal heads on the wall. Some of the six rooms, which are $120 to $155 a night, have fireplaces. Dinners are served on a patio with views of the spacious grounds. The Eggery Inn (288 Platte Clove Road, Tannersville; 518-589-5363; www.eggeryinn.com), on a former egg farm, has 15 rooms at $109 to $139 a night, including breakfast.

THREE FOR SALE
A Faster Trip, and Slower Scene, Than Much of the Hamptons

Information on properties was supplied by the listing companies.

WHAT -- 3-bedroom town house
HOW MUCH -- $229,000

This 2,100-square-foot town house, half of a 1988 building, has three floors and three bathrooms. The buyer would own about half of an acre. Agent: Lee Gazoorian, Charles Thorpe Real Estate, 518-589-5481; www.thorperealestate.com.

WHAT -- 3-bedroom house
HOW MUCH -- $585,000

This two-year-old, two-story colonial-style house is 2,400 square feet. It has a wood-burning stove, cherry floors and two and a half bathrooms. The property is five acres. It is in the Elka Park area but outside the private community of the same name. Agent: Michael Schneller, Win Morrison Realty, 845-706-1381; www.winmorrisonrealty.com.

WHAT -- 8-bedroom house
HOW MUCH -- $590,000

Built in 1893, this 3,235-square-foot, three-floor house has three and a half bathrooms, a large stone fireplace and a wraparound porch. It is on three acres in the historic private community of Elka Park and faces the clubhouse, which has a pool. Board approval is required. Agent: Judith Brown, Gene Gordon Realty; 518-589-9000; www.gordonrealty.com.


GRAPHIC: Photos: MOUNTAIN GREENERY -- Tannersville is near the Hunter Mountain ski resort, but its year-round beauty increasingly attracts second-home buyers. (Photo by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)Map of New York highlighting Tannersville and the Catskill Park area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESORTS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (74%); GOLF (73%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); MOUNTAIN BIKING (69%); EXTREME SPORTS (69%); SKIING (69%); HIKING (69%); TENNIS (67%); SPORTS (67%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (52%); PRICE INCREASES (52%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (52%); CYCLING (50%); PLUMBING SYSTEMS & FIXTURES (50%) Geographic Profiles; Housing ; Travel and Vacations

PERSON: C J Hughes

GEOGRAPHIC: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Tannersville (Ny); New York State

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006



300 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Lagging Ad Sales Contribute to Earnings Decline at Newspaper Chains 

BYLINE: By Katharine Q. Seelye

 BODY:
THE newspaper industry continues to flag financially, with three companies -- The New York Times, Tribune and McClatchy -- reporting sharply lower first-quarter earnings yesterday.
 Executives of all of the newspaper companies said they were hurt by stagnant advertising, particularly in the automotive and entertainment categories, and a continuing rise in the cost of newsprint. The Times Company and Tribune also cited the cost of severance packages after cutting hundreds of jobs.
At the same time, the companies said that their Internet activities were thriving. Those activities still account for only a small share of total revenue and are not big enough to offset the losses from traditional advertisers. But revenue from the Internet is clearly a growth area where the newspapers are shifting their focus. 
 John Janedis, a media industry analyst at Banc of America Securities, said, ''The newspaper guys have done a better job than other media in monetizing their online content.'' 
 He added: ''You may argue that they're cannibalizing their print content, but at least they're recapturing some of it.'' Still, the numbers are too small to make a difference, he said.
 At The New York Times Company, profit fell 69 percent, to $35 million, or 24 cents a share, down from $111 million, or 76 cents a share, in the first quarter of last year. The company attributed much of the decline to a big gain that it reported last year after it sold its headquarters in Midtown Manhattan. The company and The New York Times newspaper plan to move into new headquarters nearby in the second quarter of next year.
 Total revenue at the Times Company rose 3.3 percent, to $832 million. Internet businesses now account for $62 million, or 7.5 percent of all revenue. Last year, they accounted for 4.5 percent. The company attributes the growth largely to its acquisition last year of About.com, a consumer-oriented Web site.
 Ad revenue grew 3.9 percent; excluding About.com, the increase was 0.7 percent. At the same time, newsprint costs rose almost 6 percent. The Times newspaper has eliminated its stock tables, in part to save on newsprint costs, and has raised its home-delivery rates. It also eliminated 500 jobs last year. 
 Janet L. Robinson, chief executive of the Times Company, said that among its newspapers, The Boston Globe was facing particular problems, largely because of slow population growth in New England, a weak economy and a large number of consumers who have high-speed Internet access and tend to read online.
 Also yesterday, the Times Company said it would sell its 50 percent interest in the Discovery Times Channel, a digital cable channel, back to Discovery Communications and would invest further in video for the newspaper's Web site. The company said it expected to get $80 million to $135 million for Discovery. It paid $100 million three years ago for its interest.
 ''Our strategy has shifted,'' Leonard P. Forman, chief financial officer for the Times Company, said in a conference call with analysts. With more people using high-speed Internet service, he said, shorter-form video is becoming more appealing. ''This is where we'll focus our efforts,'' he said. 
 The Tribune company, whose newspapers include The Los Angeles Times, The Chicago Tribune and Newsday, reported yesterday that its first-quarter earnings fell 28 percent. Income fell to $103 million, or 33 cents a share, compared with $143 million, or 44 cents a share, a year earlier. Overall revenue declined 1.3 percent, to $1.3 billion. Advertising revenue was flat. Last year, the company cut 1,200 jobs.
 At McClatchy, net income fell to $27.7 million, or 59 cents a share. That compares with $32.3 million, or 69 cents a share, a year before. 
 The company's first-quarter revenue was up slightly, at $282 million. Ad revenue increased 1.4 percent. McClatchy's newspapers include The Sacramento Bee and The Minneapolis Star Tribune. 
 The results yesterday follow a report on Wednesday from Gannett, the nation's largest newspaper company and one of its most profitable, that its earnings had fallen by 11 percent. Gannett also said that ad sales at USA Today, its largest newspaper, had fallen 4.2 percent.
 Shares of the Times Company fell 17 cents, to $25.05. Shares of Tribune rose 18 cents, to $28.20. Gannett shares fell 99 cents, to $56.77. 
 Mr. Janedis, the analyst at Banc of America Securities, said that McClatchy's performance was the most disappointing to Wall Street; The company's stock fell $1, to $47.
 So far this year, shares in the newspaper industry over all are down about 6 percent.
 Gary B. Pruitt, chairman and chief executive of McClatchy, who engineered his company's $4.5 billion purchase of Knight Ridder last month, was nonetheless upbeat.
 ''Some may see the current slow advertising environment as confirmation of predictions that newspapers and print media are dying,'' he said in a conference call with analysts. ''We think that's wrong.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Tribune Company, The New York Times Company and the McClatchy Company were hurt by stagnant advertising. (Photo by Daniel Acker/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (89%); NEWSPRINT (89%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); RELOCATIONS (64%); WEB SITES (61%); CABLE TELEVISION (60%); SEVERANCE PAY (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (94%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); ABOUT.COM INC (53%); DISCOVERY COMMUNICATIONS INC (50%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (94%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); DISCA (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (50%)

PERSON: JANET L ROBINSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006



301 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 2; Leisure/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: Rattler of Cages, From China to Europe 

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

DATELINE: NORTH ADAMS, MASS. 

 BODY:
EVERYTHING, everything must change, says the Tao. Consider the course of contemporary Chinese art. Two decades ago it barely existed, at least as far as we knew. By the 1990's, it was a crouching tiger on the international scene, powerful but held back. Now the tiger has taken a giant leap upward, in value and visibility, thanks to two wildly successful Sotheby's auctions in the last few weeks, in New York and Hong Kong. 
 The results: much talk of money, New China, new stars. Yet one major figure, Huang Yong Ping, among China's most influential avant-garde artists, was all but absent from the sales. A former star in descent? Hardly, judging by ''House of Oracles: A Huang Yong Ping Retrospective,'' the dynamite midcareer survey at the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art here. But he is a star of elusive luminosity.
 Mr. Huang, 53, emigrated to Paris in 1989 and has lived there ever since. In addition, his art is not exactly auction-compatible. 
 Much of his early work is insistently unbeautiful. A piece that he contributed to ''Inside Out: New Chinese Art'' at Asia Society and P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center in 1998 was little more than a heap of mulchy paper. He made it by throwing two books -- an English-language textbook on 20th-century Western art and a classic Chinese art history book -- together in a washing machine until they became a lump of pulp. 
 Size also keeps his art off the block. He has come to favor working in an increasingly grand -- some would say operatic, even circuslike -- scale. This tendency is spectacularly evident in the show. The entrance is flanked by two lion cages, empty except for gnawed bones. A carved wooden serpent, 140 feet long, twists through the air in the gallery beyond. 
 It soars over another cage, this one containing a miniature, living bestiary of lizards, scorpions, tarantulas, crickets and toads. Nearby is the House of Oracles itself, a large canvas military tent, a combination of laboratory and studio, filled with circular calendars, divination instruments, art materials and photographs of Mr. Huang taking readings from ''The I Ching, or Book of Changes.'' 
 And this describes just one gallery. Elsewhere you'll find a huge wooden gourd stocked with herbal medicines, and two upright, columnlike paper scrolls, one printed in Tibetan, the other in Arabic. Then comes a startlingly realistic, life-size sculpture of a tiger jumping atop an elephant, and a model, molded from 20 tons of compacted sand and concrete, of a European-style domed building. Finally, upstairs, where the show ends, there's a full-size fighter plane, or half of one, with a skeletal cockpit and a walk-in fuselage made of plastic and bamboo. 
 Although Mr. Huang envisioned the exhibition as a single installation, a total work of art, it is hard to make quick, clear sense of the whole or its parts. The artist's personal history, however, offers some clues. 
 He began his career in the 1980's as a painter but was soon on another track. He and some friends formed one of China's most radical avant-garde collectives, the Xiamen Dada group. Gleaning information mostly from imported art magazines, he became a self-taught student of Joseph Beuys, John Cage and Duchamp.
 In the mid-1980's, he invented an automatic painting machine from a roulette wheel. He also made a series of irreverent alterations to emblematic images, in one case combining the features of the Mona Lisa with those of a Leonardo self-portrait. The book-laundering piece is from around this time. It seemed to imply that art, far from being divided into West versus East, has always been a crazy-mixed-up thing. And the job of contemporary art was to destabilize the mix by eliminating anchoring notions like artist-genius, self-expression and signature style. 
 In 1989 Mr. Huang was invited to Paris to participate in ''Magicians of the Earth,'' an exhibition that famously broke ground in bringing Western and non-Western art together. While he was there, the killings at Tiananmen Square took place, and he decided to stay in France. 
 As many critics have noted, Mr. Huang's art changed after his move. What he did in China was ephemeral, performance-based, Duchampian. The work he has produced in Europe has been more fixed and polished and, drawing heavily on Taoism and Buddhism, more obviously ''Chinese.'' 
 Some critics have accused Mr. Huang of pandering to a Western appetite for the exotic after his move. But his interest in Taoism and Buddhism followed naturally from his devotion to Cage and Duchamp. Just as Western art had done in China, Chinese culture provided a degree of resistance to the European world he was suddenly immersed in. Whatever the final judgment on the pandering question, the retrospective, organized by Philippe Vergne, chief curator at the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis and co-curator of the current Whitney Biennial, is impressive. It has a complicated sense of newness: you have never seen anything quite like this art before, yet it feels musty and archaic, as if excavated from tombs. And unlike his earlier work, it carries a dense, particular content of stories, myths, esoteric lore and political commentary.
 There are references to the dangers of immigration (the lion cages), to nature as simultaneously destructive and healing (the Darwinian bestiary, the medicine-filled gourd). And there is the repeated image of the artist as diviner, tactician and impresario, foretelling the future, meditating his moves, calculating the effects required in the production of a memorable existential theater. 
 Certain recent pieces have a barely disguised topicality. The upright scrolls are the Twin Towers as Towers of Babel. The tiger-and-elephant tableau, based on 1911 photographs of George V of England perched atop an elephant during a lion hunt in Nepal, speaks of colonialism -- once local, now global -- under attack. The building of sand, based on a former British bank in Shanghai, is about economic miracles crumbling imperceptibly before our eyes. 
 The fighter plane piece upstairs, the show's newest work, was inspired by a specific event: the collision of a United States surveillance aircraft with a Chinese military jet over the South China Sea in 2001. Despite the intense political tension that resulted, China permitted the spy plane to be disassembled and shipped back to the United States. 
 Mr. Huang conceived his piece as a study in the enigmatic mechanics of political power, and he managed to give offense all around. Three attempts to realize the piece in China were thwarted by Chinese, French and United States authorities, who all, for different reasons, wanted the incident forgotten. 
 Possibly this on-again, off-again history explains why the results, while striking, feel a bit anticlimactic. Like other very recent projects by the artist, it is at once too ingenious and too obvious. It lacks the funky, metaphorical mystery of slightly earlier pieces, with their language of health and disease, nature and culture, past and future, seeking balance, forever in flux. 
 Even at its least poetic, though, his art is very different from what topped the charts at Sotheby's: post-Maoist Pop paintings that adhere to Western formal preferences and to an ideological view of China still locked in cold war formulas. Most of the painters whose work sold at auction have been producing the same images for 20 years. Mr. Huang, restlessly moving among themes and forms, has not. His art is about change, and it changes, and changes again. Duchamp and Cage, those adepts of Taoist modernism, would surely have understood this. And they might have recognized Mr. Huang for what he is: not one of the crouching tigers of the new Chinese art, but one of its hidden dragons.

''House of Oracles: A Huang Yong Ping Retrospective'' remains through Feb. 25, 2007, at the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art, Marshall Street, North Adams, Mass.; (413) 662-2111.


GRAPHIC: Photos: ''Three Wings,'' above right, and a section of ''Bat Project IV,'' by Huang Yong Ping, at Mass MoCA. (Photo by Kevin Kennefick)(pg. E29)
''Python'' (2000), a sculpture of wood and rope, soars at the entrance of the Huang Yong Ping retrospective at Mass MoCA.
 ''Bat Project IV'' (2004-5), a plane cockpit with taxidermic bats. (Photographs by Kevin Kennefick)(pg. E36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (74%); HISTORY (73%); ART HISTORY (73%); HERBAL MEDICINE (50%) Art; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art

PERSON: Holland Cotter; Huang Yong Ping

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); TIBET (79%); HONG KONG (79%); EUROPE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006



302 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 5; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Film in Review; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 266 words

HEADLINE: Look Both Ways

BYLINE: By JEANNETTE CATSOULIS

 BODY:

Opens today in New York
Directed by Sarah Watt
100 minutes
 Given its preoccupation with disease and calamity, ''Look Both Ways'' may not be the most soothing entertainment for these high-anxiety times and for audiences primed to flinch every time a car backfires. Written and directed by the Australian animator Sarah Watt, the live-action movie follows a group of disparate and desperate characters over the course of one of the most depressing weekends in movie history. Before Monday morning, each will face the possibility of one or more of the following: unemployment, chemotherapy, abortion and death. I should probably mention it's a love story. 
 The principal sufferers, er, soul mates are Meryl (Justine Clarke), an illustrator of sympathy cards who's constantly imagining her own destruction, and Nick (William McInnes), a newspaper photographer who spends his days documenting disaster. The cheery pair meet at the site of a railway fatality, mere hours after Nick has been told he has testicular cancer. Prodded by a soundtrack crammed with limp ballads and the voice of a newscaster cataloging the deaths from yet another train accident, the two fall into bed, relieved to discover that a mutual fixation on catastrophe can be quite the aphrodisiac.
 Bogged down by the stylistic gimmickry of bustling montages and jarring animated segments, ''Look Both Ways'' aims for existential drama but succeeds only in reminding us that misery loves company. JEANNETTE CATSOULIS
 ''Look Both Ways'' is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). Some animated violence and extremely nonanimated sex.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); CANCER (78%); ANIMATION (76%); MOVIE RATINGS (76%); CONTENT RATINGS (76%); MEN'S HEALTH (73%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (73%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (71%); FILM HISTORY (71%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (71%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (70%); TESTICULAR CANCER (70%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (68%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (68%) Motion Pictures; Reviews

PERSON: Jeannette Catsoulis; Sarah Watt; Justine Clarke; William McInnes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006



303 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Art in Review; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: Danny Lyon

BYLINE: By GRACE GLUECK

 BODY:

Unpublished: Vintage Photographs, 1963-2005
Edwynn Houk Gallery
745 Fifth Avenue, at 57th Street
Through April 22
 Biking looms large in the photographs of Danny Lyon -- a photo-documentarian, writer and filmmaker -- whose close-up-and-personal shots of his fellow motorcyclists were the basis of a well-known insidery book, ''The Bikeriders,'' in 1968. His work has always engaged the grittier aspects of American life, starting in the early 1960's, when he followed the civil rights movement with his camera for the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee. 
 This rambling ''re-examination'' of his career presents previously unpublished outtakes from some of his projects including, besides ''The Bikeriders,'' a documentation of what he saw as Lower Manhattan's destructive urban renewal, and an account of prisons and prisoners in Texas. The wide-ranging mix of nearly 60 vintage prints, virtually all from the 1960's and some never seen before, also includes images of country people, youthful car cultists, pool players and transvestites as well as modest, low-key snapshots from his own family life and a self-portrait or two. 
 The show starts with a glimpse of Mr. Lyon's face in a rear-view mirror that is artfully twisted to a vertical position before a rainy windshield. It ends with a close-up of a pin-up image mounted on a shiny hubcap. The macho attraction to wheels and engines is saluted in other shots, like ''Andrew Sanchez, Llanito'' (1975), depicting a grease-stained tinkerer intensely involved with his auto's innards, and ''Knoxville'' (1967), showing four high-testosterone youths congregated in and around a vintage convertible.
 There are poignant images of African-American life, ranging from a pair of transvestites, Roberta and Pumpkin, to a lone young girl laboring in a field in Tallahatchie County, Miss. Also in Mississippi, a close-up of hard-bitten carnival people at a county fair, and a view of ghostly abandoned farm buildings in a field of weeds project a less-than-upbeat vision of rural America.
 A spate of prison pictures from Texas shows men behind bars, at hard labor picking and transporting cotton and ''relaxing'' under close supervision by guards. From a documentary point of view, perhaps, they are important, but they are the least interesting of the strong images in this engrossing miscellany. GRACE GLUECK


GRAPHIC: Photo: Danny Lyon's photograph ''Andrew Sanchez, Llanito'' from 1975. (Photo by Edwynn Houk Gallery)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); WRITERS (77%); FAMILY (70%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (55%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%) Photography; Reviews 

PERSON: Grace Glueck; Danny Lyon

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006



304 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 15934 words

HEADLINE: The Listings: April 14 - April 20

 BODY:
Selective listings by critics of The New York Times of new and noteworthy cultural events in the New York metropolitan region this week. * denotes a highly recommended film, concert, show or exhibition.

Theater

Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/theater. 


Previews and Openings

'LANDSCAPE OF THE BODY' Opens Sunday. John Guare, never satisfied with an overly tidy play, throws comedy, tragedy, satire and mystery into this cult drama, which first opened almost three decades ago. Lili Taylor and Sherie Rene Scott star (2:15). Signature Theater's Peter Norton Space, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529.

'SCREWMACHINE/EYECANDY OR: HOW I LEARNED TO STOP WORRYING AND LOVE BIG BOB' Opens Sunday. C. J. Hopkins's dark drama, a hit at the 2005 Edinburgh Festival, is about a game show host even more bizarre than Bob Barker (1:30). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200.

'AWAKE AND SING!' Opens Monday. Lincoln Center Theater revives Clifford Odets's classic fist-shaking drama about a Jewish family struggling to survive during the Depression. The impressive cast includes Mark Ruffalo, Ben Gazzara and Zoe Wanamaker (2:30). Belasco Theater, 111 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200.

'THE IMPORTANCE OF BEING EARNEST' Opens Tuesday. Closes May 14. Sir Peter Hall stages Oscar Wilde's indestructible comedy. Lynn Redgrave stars as Lady Bracknell (2:25). Brooklyn Academy of Music, Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, (718) 636-4100.

'THREE DAYS OF RAIN' Opens Wednesday. Julia Roberts stars in this year's most closely watched star vehicle, a revival of the Richard Greenberg time-traveling drama about how we divide the legacy of our parents. Paul Rudd also stars (2:30). Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200.

'THE THREEPENNY OPERA' Opens Thursday. If any Broadway theater was made for a revival of Brecht's classic, it's the cabaret-style Studio 54, which is host to an intriguing cast that includes Alan Cumming and Cyndi Lauper (2:40). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, (212) 719-1300.

'THE CAINE MUTINY COURT-MARTIAL' Previews start today. Opens May 7. Try not to think of Ross from ''Friends'' when you see David Schwimmer in this revival of Herman Wouk's adaptation of his Pulitzer Prizewinning novel about a lawyer who defends a Navy lieutenant accused of mutiny. Jerry Zaks directs (2:15). The Gerald Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200.

'THE DROWSY CHAPERONE' Opens May 1. This little-musical-that-could about an unscrupulous Broadway producer in the 1920's (some things never change) began at the Toronto Fringe Festival and now makes its unlikely premiere on the Great White Way (1:40). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street, (212) 307-4100.

'FAITH HEALER' Previews start Tuesday. Opens May 4. Ralph Fiennes, Cherry Jones and Ian McDiarmid make up the dream cast of this revival of Brian Friel's classic collection of ''Rashomon''-like monologues about a man peddling salvation, his long-suffering wife and his manager (2:35). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200.

'A FINE AND PRIVATE PLACE' Opens April 27. Redemption is a major theme of this musical fantasy adapted from a Peter S. Beagle novel about a recluse who lives in a Bronx cemetery (2:00). York Theater, St. Peter's Lutheran Church, Lexington Avenue at 54th Street, (212) 868-4444.

'THE HISTORY BOYS' Previews start today. Opens April 23. Alan Bennett's acutely observed hit drama about English schoolboys arrives stateside with the best buzz of any new play this year. The National Theater's artistic director Nicholas Hytner directs (2:45). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200.

'HOT FEET' Previews start Thursday. Opens April 30. Earth, Wind and Fire get in on the jukebox musical trend with this new show about a woman who dreams of dancing on Broadway. Maurice Hines directs and choreographs (2:30). Hilton Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4100.

'LESTAT' Opens April 25. Elton John and Bernie Taupin have a good track record for making pop hits, but can they find success in the cursed genre of the vampire musical? Hugh Panaro stars (2:30). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, (212) 307-4100.

'THE LIEUTENANT OF INISHMORE' Previews start Wednesday. Opens May 3. The Atlantic Theater Company's acclaimed production of Martin McDonagh's very bloody, exceptionally black comedy about Irish terrorism moves to Broadway (1:45). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200.

'SHINING CITY' Previews start Thursday. Opens May 9. A guilt-ridden man tells his therapist that he has seen the ghost of his wife in Conor McPherson's new play, which received good reviews at the Royal Court in London. Brian F. O'Byrne, Martha Plimpton and Oliver Platt star (1:45). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200.

'TARZAN' Opens May 10. Phil Collins lends his invisible touch to the score of the latest Disney musical. David Henry Hwang wrote the book (2:30). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4100.

'THE WEDDING SINGER' Opens April 27. Stephen Lynch plays the goofy title character in this musical adaptation of the Adam Sandler film about leg warmers, Billy Idol and other artifacts from the 1980's. John Rando (''Urinetown'') directs (2:20). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200.

Broadway

'BAREFOOT IN THE PARK' For a work that celebrates the liberating force of spontaneity, this revival of Neil Simon's 1963 comedy doesn't have one scene that feels organic, let alone impromptu. Directed by Scott Elliott, and starring Patrick Wilson and a miscast Amanda Peet as newlyweds in Greenwich Village, this ''Barefoot'' has the robotic gait of Frankenstein's monster (2:20). Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Ben Brantley)

* 'BRIDGE & TUNNEL' This delightful solo show, written and performed by Sarah Jones, is a sweet-spirited valentine to New York City, its polyglot citizens and the larger notion of an all-inclusive America. In 90 minutes of acutely observed portraiture gently tinted with humor, Ms. Jones plays more than a dozen men and women participating in an open-mike evening of poetry for immigrants (1:30). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Charles Isherwood)

'THE COLOR PURPLE' So much plot, so many years, so many characters to cram into less than three hours. This beat-the-clock musical adaptation of Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel about Southern black women finding their inner warriors never slows down long enough for you to embrace it. LaChanze leads the vibrant, hard-working cast (2:40). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'DIRTY ROTTEN SCOUNDRELS' The arrival of Jonathan Pryce and his eloquent eyebrows automatically makes this the season's most improved musical. With Mr. Pryce (who replaces the admirable but uneasy John Lithgow) playing the silken swindler to Norbert Leo Butz's vulgar grifter, it's as if a mismatched entry in a three-legged race had become an Olympic figure-skating pair (2:35). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'FESTEN' An intensely staged, indifferently acted production of David Eldridge's adaptation of a 1998 Danish film about a grim family reunion, which was a big hit in London under the same director, Rufus Norris. While the mise en scene remains unsettlingly stark, the Broadway cast (which includes Michael Hayden, Julianna Margulies, Jeremy Sisto and Ali MacGraw) registers the tension and testiness of people suffering from a collective bad hair day. Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'JERSEY BOYS' From grit to glamour with the Four Seasons, directed by the pop repackager Des McAnuff (''The Who's Tommy''). The real thrill of this shrink-wrapped bio-musical, for those who want something more than recycled chart toppers and a story line poured from a can, is watching the wonderful John Lloyd Young (as Frankie Valli) cross the line from exact impersonation into something far more compelling (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE LIGHT IN THE PIAZZA' Love is a many-flavored thing, from sugary to sour, in Adam Guettel and Craig Lucas's encouragingly ambitious and discouragingly unfulfilled new musical. The show soars only in the sweetly bitter songs performed by the wonderful Victoria Clark, as an American abroad (2:15). Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE ODD COUPLE' Odd is not the word for this couple. How could an adjective suggesting strangeness or surprise apply to a production so calculatedly devoted to the known, the cozy, the conventional? As the title characters in Neil Simon's 1965 comedy, directed as if to a metronome by Joe Mantello, Nathan Lane and Matthew Broderick reprise their star performances from ''The Producers,'' and it's not a natural fit. Don't even consider killing yourself because the show is already sold out (2:10). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

* 'THE PAJAMA GAME' Sexual chemistry in a Broadway musical? Isn't that illegal now? If it were, then Harry Connick Jr. and Kelli O'Hara -- the white-hot stars of Kathleen Marshall's delicious revival of this 1954 musical -- would be looking at long jail terms. This intoxicating production, which features a charming supporting cast led by Michael McKean, allows grown-up audiences the rare chance to witness a bona fide adult love affair translated into hummable songs and sprightly dance (2:30). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300. (Brantley)

'RING OF FIRE' The man in black turns sunshine yellow in a show that strings songs associated with Johnny Cash into a big, bright candy necklace of a musical revue, created and directed by Richard Maltby Jr. In the current bio-flick ''Walk the Line,'' Cash wrestles demons; ''Ring of Fire'' wrestles with a really bad case of the cutes (2:00). Ethel Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'SWEENEY TODD' Sweet dreams, New York. This thrilling new revival of Stephen Sondheim and Hugh Wheeler's musical, with Michael Cerveris and Patti LuPone leading a cast of 10 who double as their own musicians, burrows into your thoughts like a campfire storyteller who knows what really scares you. The inventive director John Doyle aims his pared-down interpretation at the squirming child in everyone who wants to have his worst fears both confirmed and dispelled (2:30). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' The happy news for this happy-making little musical is that the move to larger quarters has dissipated none of its quirky charm. William Finn's score sounds plumper and more rewarding than it did on Off Broadway, providing a sprinkling of sugar to complement the sass in Rachel Sheinkin's zinger-filled book. The performances are flawless. Gold stars all around (1:45). Circle in the Square, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

* 'WELL' Lisa Kron's sparkling autobiographical play about illness, integration and her mother (portrayed with majestic warmth and weariness by Jayne Houdyshell) helps restore the honor of that tarnished literary form, the memoir. Though it shows the strain of scaling up for Broadway, this singular work, which stars Ms. Kron as herself, opens windows of insight and emotion found in no other show (1:40). Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

Off Broadway

'BASED ON A TOTALLY TRUE STORY' A chatty, autobiographical comedy by Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa about a writer for comic books who moonlights as a screenwriter and playwright. Juggling his two jobs, the busy writer begins backsliding in his unofficial third, ''being a loving, giving, emotionally available boyfriend.'' Minor-key angst ensues in this perky two hours of comic navel-gazing (2:00). Manhattan Theater Club at City Center Stage II, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212. (Isherwood)

'DEFIANCE' The second in John Patrick Shanley's cycle of morality plays that began with ''Doubt,'' this ambitious tale of racial relations and the military mindset on a North Carolina marine base feels both overcrowded and oddly diffuse. If ''Doubt'' has an elegant and energy-efficient sprinter's gait, ''Defiance'' progresses with a flustered air of distraction. The excellent Margaret Colin, as an officer's wife, provides a welcome shot of credibility (1:30). Manhattan Theater Club, Theater 1, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212. (Brantley)

'ENTERTAINING MR. SLOANE' Miscasting is the mother of invention. Or so it proves to be for Jan Maxwell, who re-tailors an ill-fitting part and makes it as snug as a glove in this underpowered revival of Joe Orton's scandalous 1964 comedy. Scott Ellis's production of Orton's great farce of sexual hypocrisy, which also stars Alec Baldwin, is breezy, often funny and rarely convincing. (2:00). Laura Pels Theater at the Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300. (Brantley)

'GEORGE M. COHAN TONIGHT!' The all-singing, all-dancing Jon Peterson summons the spirit of this legendary Broadway entertainer in this engaging one-man musical, devised and directed by Chip Deffaa (1:30). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737. (George Hunka)

'GREY GARDENS' As the socialite in limbo called ''Little'' Edie Beale, Christine Ebersole gives one of the most gorgeous performances ever to grace a musical. Unfortunately, she's a pearl of incalculable price in a show that is mostly costume jewelry. Adapted from the Maysles brothers' 1975 cult documentary movie, a camp favorite, and directed by Michael Greif, with the excellent Mary Louise Wilson as Edie's bedridden mother (2:40). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Brantley)

'JACQUES BREL IS ALIVE AND WELL AND LIVING IN PARIS' A powerfully sung revival of the 1968 revue, presented with affectionate nostalgia by the director Gordon Greenberg. As in the original, two men (Robert Cuccioli and Rodney Hicks) and two women (Natascia Diaz and Gay Marshall) perform a wide selection of Brel's plaintive ballads and stirring anthems. Ms. Marshall's captivating performance of ''Ne Me Quitte Pas,'' sung in the original French and with heart-stirring transparency, represents Brel at his best. (2:00). Zipper Theater, 336 West 37th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'LOS BIG NAMES' In the lesbian comic Marga Gomez's friendly new solo show, she measures out affection and mockery in equal doses as she recalls her parents, Willy and Margarita, a comic and a dancer who lived a splashy life on a small scale in the circumscribed world of New York Latino culture in the 1960's. Ms. Gomez pairs stories of their performing careers with comic tales of her own struggles to pursue success in the entertainment industry. A sendup of the movie ''Sphere'' is particularly delicious (1:30). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'MACRUNE'S GUEVARA' The Young Mirror arm of Mirror Repertory revives John Spurling's odd 1969 play about an artist who left behind a wall full of drawings of Che Guevara and the man who saw something profound in them. Parts of the play read today like a funny sendup of art critics who see too much brilliance in outsider-art gibberish; other parts seem a bit like gibberish of their own (2:15). St. Clement's, 423 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444. (Neil Genzlinger)

'RED LIGHT WINTER' A frank, occasionally graphic story of erotic fixation and the havoc it can wreak on sensitive types. Written and directed by Adam Rapp, this play is both a doomy romantic drama and a morbid comedy about the anxieties of male friendship. Although somewhat contrived, it features a lovely performance by Christopher Denham as a lonely soul starved for intimacy (2:25). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'A SAFE HARBOR FOR ELIZABETH BISHOP' The life of a great poet becomes the stuff of stale prose in this one-woman bio-play by Marta Goes, starring Amy Irving (1:30). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)

'SANDRA BERNHARD: EVERYTHING BAD AND BEAUTIFUL' Sandra Bernhard was a proverbial rock star long before headline-making folks in even the most prosaic walks of life were being referred to as such. Her new show, a collection of songs interspersed with musings on her life and on public figures ranging from Britney Spears to Condoleezza Rice, is casual to the point of being offhand. That said, it's invigorating to be in the presence of a true original (2:00). Daryl Roth Theater, 101 East 15th Street, at Union Square, East Village, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'SHOW PEOPLE' Paul Weitz's eyebrow-pencil-thin comedy about a man who hires actors to impersonate his family feels like one long, occasionally amusing party game whose players don't know when to call it a night. The excellent four-member cast, led by Debra Monk and directed by Peter Askin, finds charm and energy amid the vaporous bait-and-switch plot reversals (2:00). Second Stage Theater, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422. (Isherwood)

* '[TITLE OF SHOW]' Jeff Bowen and Hunter Bell are the authors, stars and subject matter of this delectable new musical about its own making. The self-consciousness is tempered by a wonderful cast performing with the innocence of kids cavorting in a sandbox. It's a worthy postmodern homage to classic backstage musicals, and an absolute must for show queens (1:30). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 353-0303. (Isherwood)

'TRYST' A suspense drama of a distinctly old-fashioned stamp about the romance between a handsome cad (Maxwell Caulfield) and a lonely spinster (Amelia Campbell). Will the wily predator seduce and abandon the mousy milliner? Karoline Leach's play springs a few twists that lack psychological credibility but keep the plot on the boil (2:00). Promenade Theater, 2162 Broadway, at 76th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

Off Off Broadway

'THE PRIVATE LIFE OF THE MASTER RACE' Bertolt Brecht's middle-period classic in a robust new translation by Binyamin Shalom and a spare and powerful production by the Roust Theater Company, directed by James Phillip Gates (2:45). Walkerspace, 46 Walker Street, SoHo, (212) 868-4444. (Hunka)

Long-Running Shows

* 'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200.(Isherwood)

'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200.(Brantley)

'DOUBT, A PARABLE' (Pulitzer Prize, Best Play 2005, and Tony Award, Best Play 2005) John Patrick Shanley makes subversive use of musty conventions in the clash between the head of a parochial school and the young priest who may or may not be too fond of the boys in his charge (1:30). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PRODUCERS' The ne plus ultra of showbiz scams (2:45). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'SPAMALOT' (Tony Award, Best Musical 2005) This staged re-creation of the mock-medieval movie ''Monty Python and the Holy Grail'' is basically a singing scrapbook for Python fans. Such a good time is being had by so many people that this fitful, eager celebration of inanity and irreverence has found a large and lucrative audience (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

Last Chance

'THE CATARACT' Though it begins promisingly -- a funny Midwestern noir in the style of the Coen brothers -- Lisa D'Amour's play about Southern drifters unsettling upright Minnesotans soon loses its balance, swamped by a torrent of magical realism and psychobabble (2:15). Women's Project/Julia Miles Theater, 424 West 55th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200; closing tomorrow. (Miriam Horn)

'CONFESSIONS OF A MORMON BOY' Steven Fales, a sixth-generation Mormon, describes leaving his family and becoming a gay escort in this fairly conventional, although admittedly compelling, piece of confessional theater (1:30). SoHo Playhouse, 15 Vandam Street, between Avenue of the Americas and Varick Street, (212) 691-1555; closing Sunday. (Zinoman)

'PEN' David Marshall Grant's sometimes preachy new three-character play is about an unhappy Long Island family in 1969. J. Smith-Cameron is fascinating to watch as she exposes the anguish behind the tough, angry exterior of the wheelchair-bound mother; Dan McCabe is uneven but believable as the troubled teenage son who wants to get away from her; and Reed Birney is less persuasive as the ex-husband who has already left. The title object is a gift from the author to himself: it allows something impossible to happen (2:15). Playwrights Horizons, Peter Jay Sharp Theater, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200; closing Sunday. (Andrea Stevens)

* 'TRANSATLANTIC LIAISON' A play fashioned from Simone de Beauvoir's love letters to the American novelist Nelson Algren and scenes from her novel ''The Mandarins'' (which tells the story of their affair). Wonderful performances by Elizabeth Rothan as de Beauvoir in love, and Matthew S. Tompkins as the emotional Algren (1:30). Harold Clurman Theater on Theater Row, 412 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200; closing tomorrow. (Moore)

Movies

Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.

'AQUAMARINE' (PG, 109 minutes) In this sweet comedy for the crowd that has outgrown ''The Little Mermaid,'' two likable pals (Emma Roberts and Joanna Levesque, a k a the singer JoJo) try to help a mermaid (Sara Paxton) find love and learn how to use her feet properly.(Neil Genzlinger)

'ATL' (PG-13, 103 minutes) A couple of rap stars make respectable starts on acting careers in this tale of black teenagers in Atlanta, despite a script marred by cliches and predictability. Tip Harris -- the rapper T. I. -- is intriguing as a young man who takes on the responsibility of raising his younger brother when their parents are killed, and Antwan Andre Patton -- Big Boi from OutKast -- makes a terrific drug lord. ( Genzlinger)

'BASIC INSTINCT 2' (R, 120 minutes) A joyless calculation, starring Sharon Stone and directed by Michael Caton-Jones, that is also a prime object lesson in the degradation that can face Hollywood actresses, especially those over 40. (Manohla Dargis)

* 'THE BEAUTY ACADEMY OF KABUL' (No rating, 74 minutes, in English and Dari) In the summer of 2004, a group of volunteer American hairstylists arrived in Kabul to open a school. In ''The Beauty Academy of Kabul,'' the director Liz Mermin documents the hilarious, moving and sometimes fractious meeting of diametrically different cultures, one having suffered unimaginable horrors and the other believing a good perm is the answer to everything. (Jeannette Catsoulis)

* 'CAPOTE' (R, 114 minutes) Philip Seymour Hoffman's portrayal of Truman Capote is a tour de force of psychological insight. (Mr. Hoffman won the Academy Award for best actor.) Following the novelist as he works on the magazine assignment that will become ''In Cold Blood,'' the film raises intriguing questions about the ethics of writing. (A. O. Scott)

'CRASH' (Academy Award, Best Picture) (R, 107 minutes) A gaggle of Los Angeles residents from various economic and ethnic backgrounds collide, sometimes literally, within an extremely hectic 36 hours. Well intentioned, impressively acted but ultimately a speechy, ponderous melodrama of liberal superstition masquerading as realism. (Scott)

'DAVE CHAPPELLE'S BLOCK PARTY' (R, 103 minutes) The setup is blissfully simple: a free block party on a dead-end street in Bed-Stuy, with a lineup of musicians, some of whom, like Kanye West and Mos Def, have put in appearances on ''Chappelle's Show.'' The nominal idea, Mr. Chappelle explains on camera, was ''the concert I've always wanted to see.'' The result, which ping-pongs between Brooklyn and Mr. Chappelle's hometown in Ohio, is a tantalizing sketch-portrait of the artist amid an outpouring of hard beats and soul. (Dargis)

'DEVIL AND DANIEL JOHNSTON' (PG-13, 110 minutes) The romantic cliche that all artists are a little bit mad is put through its paces (if never seriously questioned) in this documentary about Daniel Johnston, a mentally ill songwriter whom Kurt Cobain, the lead singer for Nirvana, once called the greatest living. Jeff Feuerzeig, who won the best director award at the 2005 Sundance Festival, cobbles together a moving portrait of the artist as his own ghost, using a wealth of material provided by Mr. Johnston, from home movies to audiocassette diaries to dozens of original, and often heartbreakingly beautiful, songs. (Dana Stevens)

* 'DON'T COME KNOCKING' (R, 122 minutes) The visually majestic but dramatically inert reunion of Sam Shepard (who stars) and the director Wim Wenders, 22 years after their auspicious collaboration on ''Paris, Texas,'' might be described as a magnificent ruin. (Stephen Holden)

* 'DRAWING RESTRAINT 9' (No rating, 135 minutes) Most of this stately film of few words, conceived and directed by the artist Matthew Barney, who co-stars with his wife, Bjork, takes place on a Japanese whaling ship afloat in Nagasaki Bay. Steeped not only in Japanese seafaring lore but also in centuries-old traditions of Japanese ritual, the film could be described as Mr. Barney's ''Moby-Dick.'' (Holden)

'ICE AGE: THE MELTDOWN' (PG, 93 minutes) Creative exhaustion haunts ''Ice Age: The Meltdown,'' as the characters from 2002's ''Ice Age'' face global warming and the submersion of their valley. While the animals head for safety in a giant, arklike boat, the director, Carlos Saldanha, indulges in biblical imagery and bad science. Over all, a flat and uninspired follow-up to a vastly superior movie. (Catsoulis)

* 'INSIDE MAN' (R, 128 minutes) The latest from Spike Lee takes a familiar setup -- in this case, a Wall Street bank heist that mutates into a hostage crisis -- and twists it ever so slightly and nicely. Among the film's most sustained pleasures are its holy trinity -- Denzel Washington, Clive Owen and Jodie Foster -- and the best lineup of pusses and mugs outside ''The Sopranos.'' (Dargis)

'LA MUJER DE MI HERMANO' (R, 93 minutes, in Spanish) Zoe (Barbara Mori) is a gorgeous, vapid wife who longs for children, but her distant spouse (Christian Meier) makes love only on Saturdays. Enter the rebellious brother-in-law (Manolo Cardona), a smoldering artist whose schedule is less regimented. Bubbling with incest, adultery, religion and homosexuality, ''La Mujer de Mi Hermano'' is an overheated telenovela that considers procreation more important than honesty, and what we want more important than who we are. (Catsoulis)

'LOOK BOTH WAYS' (PG-13, 100 minutes) Written and directed by the Australian animator Sarah Watt, ''Look Both Ways'' follows a group of disparate and desperate characters over the course of one of the most depressing weekends in movie history. The principal sufferers are Meryl (Justine Clarke), a morbid illustrator, and Nick (William McInnes), a terminally ill photographer, who discover that a mutual fixation on catastrophe can be quite the aphrodisiac. Bogged down by stylistic gimmickry, ''Look Both Ways'' aims for existential drama but succeeds only in reminding us that misery loves company. (Catsoulis)

'LUCKY NUMBER SLEVIN' (R, 110 minutes) This star-studded jigsaw puzzle of revenge and mistaken identity thinks that it's terribly smart, although it amounts to an empty, self-satisfied imitation of ''Pulp Fiction'' that reputable actors like Morgan Freeman and Ben Kingsley can't salvage. (Holden)

'MARILYN HOTCHKISS BALLROOM DANCING AND CHARM SCHOOL' (PG-13, 103 minutes) John Goodman plays a dying crash victim on his way to a 40-year-old appointment, and Robert Carlyle is the widowed baker entrusted with keeping it. Instead, he meets Marisa Tomei, who teaches him to dance and, more important, throw away his wife's ashes. Toggling back and forth between past and present, ''Marilyn Hotchkiss Ballroom Dancing and Charm School'' is a soggy, endless wallow in nostalgia and the healing power of very bad dancing. (Catsoulis)

'ON A CLEAR DAY' (PG-13, 99 minutes) Set in and around the dockyards of Glasgow, ''On a Clear Day'' follows Frank (the great Peter Mullan), a laid-off shipbuilder who decides to fix his life by swimming the English Channel. Despite a familiar crop of lovable eccentrics and predictably inspirational thrust, the movie balances the sentimentality with excellent performances and a healthy dose of working-class vulnerability. (Catsoulis)

'SHE'S THE MAN' (PG-13, 105 minutes) ''Twelfth Night'' is recast as a hysterically peppy romantic comedy about a she-jock penetrating the boys' soccer team. Because girls can do anything boys can do, although their ultimate ambition is to put on a nice dress and go steady with a stupid jock. (Nathan Lee)

'16 BLOCKS' (PG-13, 105 minutes) If Richard Donner's presence suggests that his new action flick, ''16 Blocks,'' is a throwback to the 1980's, so does one of the names holding pride of place above the title, Bruce Willis. Mr. Willis has always been an acquired taste, but for those who did acquire that taste, it's a pleasure to see him doing what comes naturally. Which means holding a gun and fending off bad guys with as few words as possible. (Dargis)

'SISTERS IN LAW' (No rating, 108 minutes, in English and pidgin) Grass-roots feminism thrives in a Cameroon village, thanks to the pair of warm-hearted, tough-minded women of law profiled in this excellent verite documentary. (Lee)

* 'SLITHER' (R, 96 minutes) A horror film about an extraterrestrial monster with a hunger for flesh that slaloms from yucks to yuks, slip-sliding from horror to comedy and back again on its gore-slicked foundation. The writer and director James Gunn knows his icky, scary stuff. (Dargis)

'TAKE THE LEAD' (PG-13, 108 minutes) Hip-hop and ballroom dancing styles fuse in a South Bronx high school at which a dance teacher, Antonio Banderas, turns gawky ducklings into gliding swans. It's sloppy but mildly endearing. (Holden)

'Thank You for Smoking' (R, 92 minutes) The director Jason Reitman has made a glib and funny movie from Christopher Buckley's glib and funny novel about a Big Tobacco lobbyist, but the real attraction here is the hard-working star, Aaron Eckhart. (Dargis)

'TORO NEGRO' (No rating, 87 minutes, in Spanish) A disturbed young matador stabs animals, beats his wife and drinks himself to the edge of oblivion in this harrowing, deeply suspect documentary set in rural Mexico. (Lee)

* 'TRISTRAM SHANDY: A COCK AND BULL STORY' (R, 91 minutes) Michael Winterbottom both confirms and refutes the assumption that Laurence Sterne's 18th-century masterpiece of digression could never be made into a movie by making a movie about the making of such a movie. Steve Coogan is wonderful as Tristram, Tristram's father and himself, though Rob Brydon steals more than a few of Mr. Coogan's scenes. (Scott)

'Tsotsi' (R, 94 minutes) (Academy Award winner for best foreign film.) Written and directed by Gavin Hood, from a novel by Athol Fugard, this South African film centers on a 19-year-old thug who steals a baby and finds redemption. You don't have to read crystal balls to see into Tsotsi's future; you just need to have watched a couple of Hollywood chestnuts. (Dargis)

'V for Vendetta' (R, 131 minutes) James McTeigue directs this D-for-dumb future-shock story about a masked avenger (Hugo Weaving) and his pipsqueak sidekick (Natalie Portman) at war against a totalitarian British regime. (Dargis)

* 'NEIL YOUNG: HEART OF GOLD' (PG, 103 minutes) Filled with country memories, bluesy regret and familiar and piercing sentiment, Jonathan Demme's concert film sounds like quintessential Neil Young, which, depending on your home catalog, will be either an enormous turn-on or a turnoff. (Dargis)

Film Series

AGAINST THE TIDE (Through Sunday) The Japan Society's spring film series concludes this weekend. 333 East 47th Street, Manhattan, (212) 715-1258; $10. (Anita Gates)

PRIX JEAN VIGO (Through Dec. 30) The Museum of Modern Art is honoring Vigo (1905-34), the French filmmaker, with a series of 41 films from directors who have won the prize that bears his name. ''Black Girl'' (1965), Ousmane Sembene's cultural-identity drama about a young African woman living with a French family, will be shown on Thursday. 11 West 53rd Street, (212) 708-9400; $10. (Gates)

RECENT FILMS FROM DENMARK (Through April 22) Scandinavia House continues its overall Scandinavian film series tomorrow. 58 Park Avenue, between 37th and 38th Streets, (212) 879-9779; $8. (Gates)

THE COMPLETE KIESLOWSKI : A ROAD MAP OF THE SOUL (Through April 23) To commemorate the 10th anniversary of Krzysztof Kieslowski's death, the Film Society of Lincoln Center, the Polish National Film Archive and the Polish Cultural Institute in New York are presenting a retrospective of his work. This weekend's films include ''The Double Life of Veronique'' (1991), and all 10 parts of Kieslowski's 1989 Decalogue, inspired by the Ten Commandments. Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 875-5600; $10. (Gates)

SHELLEY WINTERS VS. THE WATER (Through April 25) BAMcinematek is honoring Winters, who died in January at 83, with screenings of four of her best-known films. BAM Rose Cinemas, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100; $10. (Gates)

ANNA MAY WONG (Through Sunday) Wong, the first Chinese-American movie star, would have turned 100 last year. (She died in 1961.) The Museum of the Moving Image's seven-week retrospective of her work concludes this weekend. 35th Avenue at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718) 784-0077; $10. (Gates)

village voice best of 2005 (Through April 26) This annual series, which opened yesterday, continues this weekend. BAM Rose Cinemas (see above); $10. (Gates)

Pop

Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.

ACID MOTHERS TEMPLE (Wednesday) The manic Japanese guitarist Kawabata Makoto leads his long-running band in hard-rocking psychedelic explorations rooted in riffy dirt-rock. 8 p.m., Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006; $15. (Laura Sinagra)

ALKALINE TRIO, AGAINST ME (Monday) The drummer and bandleader Mike Skiba continues to add 80's brood-pop wrinkles to the straightforward pop punk that made his band's reputation when it began almost a decade ago. 7:30 p.m., Avalon, 662 Avenue of the Americas, at 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 807-7780; (sold out). (Sinagra)

B. B. KING (Monday through Wednesday) The great bluesman B. B. King and his latest guitar called Lucille can, on a good night, summon all the tribulation and joy and resilience of the blues. This show was moved from May 31, and those tickets will be honored. 8 p.m., B. B. King Blues Club and Grill, 243 West 42nd Street, (212) 997-4144; (sold out). (Jon Pareles)

BRAIN SURGEONS NYC (Monday) With Blue Oyster Cult, Albert Bouchard inspired a generation of metal and punk bands. His current band also features the former Dictator Ross the Boss and the veteran rock critic Deborah Frost. 8 p.m., Northsix, 66 North Sixth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 599-5103; $12. (Sinagra)

CHAMILLIONAIRE, LIL' FLIP (Sunday) The Houston rapper Chamillionaire had been lending rhymes to regional records for years. His turns of phrase establish him as an MC, but by singing his own hooks in a deep authoritative voice, he stands out among his peers. Lil' Flip is another Houston luminary with a sing-song flow and class-clown snaps. 9 p.m., B. B. King Blues Club and Grill, 243 West 42nd Street, (212) 997-4144; $20 in advance, $22 at the door. (Sinagra)

ABDULLAH CHHADEH (Wednesday) Abdullah Chhadeh plays the qanun (an 81-string zitherlike instrument) with his ensemble Nara. The group uses jazz double bass and Western percussion, as well as the nay (reed flute), darbuka (hand drum) and Arabic accordion. 7:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 239-6200; $20. (Sinagra)

CLAP YOUR HANDS SAY YEAH (Tonight and tomorrow) The Brooklyn quintet Clap Your Hands Say Yeah recalls the shamanic whine and thrum of the mid-1990's lo-fi rockers Neutral Milk Hotel, and sometimes the slippery paranoid quirk of the Talking Heads. 8:30 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111; (sold out). (Sinagra)

THE COUP (Tomorrow) The funky, political Coup took flak in 2001 for a pre-9/11 album cover featuring exploding twin towers. But the group's main man, Boots Riley, has lost none of the oppositional fervor. 10 p.m., Skirball Center for the Performing Arts, 566 LaGuardia Place, at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (212) 992-8484; $25 general admission; $15 for New York University faculty and staff; $7 for N.Y.U. students. (Sinagra)

LILY CUSHMAN CULHANE, THE REPUTATION (Monday) Lily Cushman Culhane sings dry, breathy torch songs over rattletrap grooves that recall Tom Waits's early-90's albums. Elizabeth Elmore of the Reputation writes punchy melodic rock anthems about tricky romance. 8 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700; $8. (Sinagra)

ELBOW, THE CLOUD ROOM (Thursday) Elbow is one of many British bands that have emerged in the wake of Radiohead and Spiritualized, mixing cinematic sonic drift with pointillist emotional disclosure. The new-wave-influenced naif rockers the Cloud Room garnered wild, though deeply underground, buzz for their best song, ''Hey Hey Now,'' which never broke into the larger indie-pop consciousness. 7 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 353-1600; $2o in advance, $23 at the door. (Sinagra)

THE FIERY FURNACES (Wednesday) This brother-and-sister art-rock duo's music cuts melodies with carnivalesque keyboard vamps and digressive skronk. 7:30 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111; $20. (Sinagra)

FIGURINES (Wednesday) The Danish rock band Figurines distinguishes itself from the current glut of post-punk formalists by aping instead the frustrated eeriness of Northwestern indie-rock bands like Modest Mouse. The vocalist Christian Hjelm balances art-song archness and lonely busker frailty. 9 p.m., Rothko, 116 Suffolk Street, Lower East Side, (212) 475-7088; $10. (Sinagra)

FRANZ FERDINAND, DEATH CAB FOR CUTIE (Tonight) At the vanguard of the post-post-punk trend, the poker-faced Franz Ferdinand plays herky-jerky party music. Death Cab is a decorous diarist-rock band whose sound gets added alternative-rock heft on the recent ''Plans'' (Atlantic). 6, Hammerstein Ballroom, 311 West 34th Street, (212) 564-4882; $40. (Sinagra)

JAMMY AWARDS (Thursday) This is the night when the jam band world proves that its vision extends beyond Grateful Dead approximations. This year's performers include a grab bag of classic rock vets (Little Feat, Peter Frampton); legends of quick-fingered instrumentalism (Bela Fleck, Joe Satriani); and beat scientists (Mad Professor, DJ Logic), as well as the Senegalese great Baaba Maal, the august folkie Richie Havens and the road-tested heroes of the jam scene, Blues Traveler. 8 p.m., Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741; $39.50 to $54.50. (Sinagra)

SHOOTER JENNINGS, DIAMOND NIGHTS (Tuesday) Mr. Jennings follows the outlaw tradition of his legendary father, Waylon, and shares his rough-hewn singing style. But while the younger Mr. Jennings's music is decidedly country, he adds his own classic-rock-informed sensibility. The Diamond Nights of New York play 70's hard-rock with a dollop of new wave. 8 p.m., Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800; $17.50 in advance, $18 at the door. (Sinagra)

ROBERT EARL KEEN (Tomorrow) This gravel-voiced Texas songwriter, a contemporary of Lyle Lovett and Nanci Griffith, is a storyteller who can unfurl a sad-luck tale with genuine heart and a sardonic twinge. Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 353-1600; $25 in advance, $30 at the door. (Sinagra)

R. KELLY (Tuesday) Few artists have turned their personal travails into unique pop music like R. Kelly, whose multi-part R&B saga ''Trapped in the Closet'' is a singularly strange psychosexual ramble. He is billing himself as Mr. Showbiz for this ''Light It Up'' tour, presenting a parade of hits that downplays any voyeuristic weirdness without skimping on the up-front sexuality that has made him famous and dangerous. 8 p.m., Radio City Music Hall, (212) 247-4777; $39.50 to $89.50. (Sinagra)

TALIB KWELI (Tomorrow) The brainy rapper Talib Kweli's agile attack still lacks Jay-Z's precision, 50 Cent's swagger and Nas's anguish. But his thrust can be raw and his struggle beautiful when he laments things like Lauryn Hill's absence from the music scene. 11 p.m., B. B. King Blues Club and Grill, 243 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144; $25 in advance, $30 at the door. (Sinagra)

LADYTRON (Tomorrow) Influenced by 1980's synth-pop's great songwriting as well as its style, Ladytron arrived before New York's fleeting electroclash moment, and it has survived it, playing dark, droning dance-pop cut with a romantic sense of alienation. 9 p.m., Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800; (sold out). (Sinagra)

ALAN LICHT AND THE PRIX (Monday) For this get-together of indie-rock vets, the experimental guitarist Alan Licht will be backed by the guitarist Chris Brokaw (formerly of Come and Codeine), the bassist Doug McCombs (of Tortoise), and the drummer Elliott Dicks. 8 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7503; $8. (Sinagra)

THOMAS MAPFUMO AND THE BLACKS UNLIMITED (Tuesday) A musical pioneer with a rebel's courage, Thomas Mapfumo made music for the revolutionaries who unseated the white-ruled government from what was Rhodesia and is now Zimbabwe. The music transferred the brisk patterns of traditional thumb-piano music to guitar; the words sometimes sent coded messages. 9 and 11:30 p.m., S.O.B.'s, 204 Varick Street, at Houston Street, South Village, (212) 243-4940; $20 in advance, $22 at the door. (Sinagra)

JOAN OSBORNE (Tuesday) Best known for her hit song musing on the Almighty, ''One of Us,'' Joan Osborne has since focused on the blues and R&B tradition in which she got her start. Expect lots of classic covers and possibly a display of the Qawwali singing she learned from Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan. 8 p.m., Coda, 34 East 34th Street, Manhattan, (212) 685-3434; $25. (Sinagra)

ROBERT POLLARD, RICHARD DAVIES (Thursday) The prolific recording maven Robert Pollard may have disbanded his much beloved band, Guided by Voices, but he continues to record and perform with undeterred gusto. The Australian singer-songwriter Richard Davies has pursued a solo career after playing in the baroque-pop outfit the Cardinal. 8 p.m., Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800; $20 in advance, $25 at the door. (Sinagra)

Sufi music with AHMET OZHAN AND THE WHIRLING DERVISHES (Tomorrow) Accompanied by the ritual Sufi dancers of the Istanbul Mevlevi Order, the singer Ahmet Ozhan will perform songs in the classical mystic tradition. 8 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $20 to $100. (Sinagra)

TV ON THE RADIO (Tuesday) TV on the Radio tops its jittery rhythms and paranoid guitars with the haunting vocal yelps of Tunde Adebimpe and Kyp Malone. They are soon to release a major-label debut, reportedly even more out-there than their indie releases. 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111; (sold out) . (Sinagra)

DAR WILLIAMS (Tuesday) This adorable coffeehouse singer-songwriter augments her sweet voice with that rare quality of seeming like a real person. 7 p.m., Avalon, 662 Avenue of the Americas, at 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 807-7780 or Ticketmaster.com or (212) 307-7171; $30. (Sinagra)

Cabaret

Full reviews of recent cabaret shows: nytimes.com/music.

* KAREN AKERS (Tonight and tomorrow, and Tuesday through Thursday) The regal cabaret singer and the brassy songs of Kander and Ebb that she is offering in her new show may not be an obvious fit. But Ms. Akers locates the heart inside the brass and sass. 9 p.m., with additional shows tonight and tomorrow night at 11:30, Algonquin Hotel, Oak Room, 59 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212) 419-9331; $60 cover, with a $20 minimum; $60 prix fixe dinner required on Thursdays and at the early shows tonight and tomorrow. (Stephen Holden)

BARBARA CARROLL (Sunday) Even when swinging out, this Lady of a Thousand Songs remains an impressionist with special affinities for Thelonious Monk and bossa nova. 2 p.m., Algonquin Hotel, Oak Room, 59 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212) 419-9331; $75, including brunch at noon. (Holden)

BLOSSOM DEARIE (Tomorrow and Sunday) To watch this singer and pianist is to appreciate the power of a carefully deployed pop-jazz minimalism combined with a highly discriminating taste in songs. The songs date from all periods of a career remarkable for its longevity and for Ms. Dearie's stubborn independence and sly wit. Tomorrow at 7 p.m., Sunday at 6:15 p.m., Danny's Skylight Room, 346 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 265-8133; $25, with a $15 minimum, or $54.50 for a dinner-and-show package. (Holden)

BABY JANE DEXTER (Tomorrow) This booming pop-blues contralto may not be demure, but she is tasteful in a smart, regal, big-mama way, and she is astute in her choices of often obscure soul, blues and jazz songs that play to her contradictory mixture of the lusty and the philosophical. 7 p.m., Helen's, 169 Eighth Avenue, near 18th Street, Chelsea, (212) 206-0609; $20, with a $15 minimum. (Holden)

* MARY CLEERE HARAN (Tonight and tomorrow, and Tuesday through Thursday) A wonderful no-frills singer with a sophisticated wit, Ms. Haran has a remarkable talent for simultaneously interpreting standards in the spirit in which they were written and looking at them through 21st-century eyes. 8:45 p.m., with additional shows tonight and tomorrow night at 10:45, Cafe Carlyle, at the Carlyle Hotel, 35 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212) 744-1600; $60 tonight and tomorrow; $50 Tuesday through Thursday. (Holden)

Jazz

Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.

DARCY JAMES ARGUE'S SECRET SOCIETY (Tuesday) As the name implies, this 18-piece big band is calibrated for maximum intrigue, with a sound that suggests Steve Reich minimalism as well as orchestral jazz in the lineage of Bob Brookmeyer (one of Mr. Argue's mentors). The ranks of the band include such hale improvisers as the trumpeter Ingrid Jensen, the tenor saxophonist Donny McCaslin and the trombonist Alan Ferber. 10 p.m., Bowery Poetry Club, 308 Bowery, between Houston and Bleecker Streets, Lower East Side, (212) 614-0505; cover, $12. (Nate Chinen)

OMER AVITAL GROUP (Thursday) The bassist Omer Avital, a staple of the West Village club Smalls during its premillennial first run, is back after a spell in his native Israel, with new music and a new stable of bands. This one consists of Joel Frahm on tenor saxophone, Avishai Cohen on trumpet, Omer Klein on piano and Greg Hutchinson on drums. 10 p.m. and midnight, Smalls, 183 West 10th Street, West Village, (212) 675-7369; cover, $20; includes two drinks. (Chinen)

TIM BERNE'S BIG SATAN (Wednesday) Mr. Berne, a vigorous and exploratory alto saxophonist, makes interplay the driving force in his band with the guitarist Marc Ducret and the drummer Tom Rainey. This one-night stand kicks off a month of touring. 10 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883; cover, $10. (Chinen)

RON CARTER/KARRIN ALLYSON (Tuesday through April 23) Mr. Carter, an august and influential bassist, has had mixed success as a bandleader; his best efforts usually involve the articulate pianist Stephen Scott, who joins him in this quartet. Ms. Allyson comes bearing a new album, ''Footprints'' (Concord), which delves into Jon Hendricks-style vocalese; as on the album, she digs in here with a strong ensemble spearheaded by the pianist Bruce Barth. 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592; cover, $35 at tables, $20 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)

LARRY CORYELL, VICTOR BAILEY AND LENNY WHITE (Through Sunday) Their recent album, ''Electric'' (Chesky), works hard to deserve the moniker; it relies equally on Mr. Coryell's searing guitar, Mr. Bailey's electric bass and Mr. White's earthy drumming. 8 and 10 p.m., with 11:30 sets tonight and tomorrow night. Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

STEVE DAVIS QUINTET (Tonight and tomorrow night) A trombonist steeped in precise and pugnacious hard bop, with a group consisting of Steve Nelson on vibraphone, Larry Willis on piano, Nat Reeves on bass and Joe Farnsworth on drums. 8 and 9:45, Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, Manhattan, (212) 885-7119; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

THE FRANK AND JOE SHOW (Wednesday) Exuberance is the currency of this four-piece band, which finds equal inspiration in swing (both the American and Gypsy varieties) and Latin music (or some approximation thereof). Frank is Frank Vignola, a guitarist; the Joe in the equation is Joe Ascione, a drummer. 8 and 10 p.m., Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121; cover, $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

* BILL FRISELL QUINTET (Tuesday through April 23; April 25 through 30) On his latest Nonesuch releases -- ''East/West'' and ''Further East/Further West,'' both partly recorded at the Village Vanguard -- the guitarist Bill Frisell conjures a compelling hallucination of the American popular songbook, with Tony Scherr and Kenny Wollesen on bass and drums. The addition of the saxophonist Greg Tardy and the trumpeter Ron Miles should alter the ensemble's chemistry as well as its size. 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037; cover, $20; $25 on Fridays and Saturdays, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

EDDIE GALE'S NOW BAND (Tomorrow through Monday) Mr. Gale is a trumpeter with serious avant-garde credentials, having worked closely with the trailblazers Cecil Taylor and Sun Ra, among others. Visiting from the West Coast, he makes three stops in as many days, with a group of estimable players including the trombonist Dick Griffin and the bassist Todd Nicholson. Tomorrow at 9 p.m., Sistas' Place, 456 Nostrand Avenue, at Jefferson Avenue, Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, (718) 398-1766. Sunday at 3 p.m., Clemente Soto Velez Cultural Center, 107 Suffolk Street, at Rivington Street, Lower East Side, (212) 696-6681; cover, $10 per set; $7 for students; free for ages 14 and under. Monday at 9 p.m., Zebulon, 258 Wythe Avenue, near North Third Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 218-6934; no cover. (Chinen)

MARY HALVORSON AND JESSICA PAVONE (Thursday) Ms. Halvorson plays guitar in this duo, and Ms. Pavone plays viola. Their experimental instincts, sharpened by an affiliation with Anthony Braxton, commingle with a folksy lyricism; sometimes they even sing, without a trace of protective irony. 8 p.m., The Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village; cover, $10. www.thestonenyc.com. (Chinen)

BILLY HART QUARTET (Through Sunday) Mr. Hart, a loose but focused drummer with a sterling resume, fronts a dream team of younger players: the tenor saxophonist Mark Turner, the pianist Ethan Iverson and the bassist Ben Street. 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037; cover, $20 to $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

JOHN HEBERT'S BYZANTINE MONKEY QUARTET (Wednesday) A progressive ensemble featuring the original music and bass playing of Mr. Hebert, along with the typically thoughtful contributions of Ralph Alessi, trumpeter; Mat Maneri, violist; and Nasheet Waits, drummer. 10 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177; cover, $8. (Chinen)

JOHN HOLLENBECK'S CLAUDIA QUINTET (Tomorrow) This improvising chamber ensemble pursues texturally oriented and often contrapuntal exploration; Mr. Hollenbeck's drumming is one color on a palette that also includes Chris Speed's clarinet and tenor saxophone, Ted Reichman's accordion, John Hebert's bass and Matt Moran's vibraphone. 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

DAVID LIEBMAN QUARTET (Tuesday through Thursday) An incantatory saxophonist working in the post-Coltrane idiom, Mr. Liebman plays here with a group featuring a frequent foil, the guitarist Vic Juris. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232; cover, $20. (Chinen)

LIONEL LOUEKE TRIO (Tonight and tomorrow night) Mr. Loueke, a distinctive guitarist and vocalist, favors a form of global jazz deeply informed by his West African homeland, Benin; his bandmates are the bassist Massimo Biolcati and the drummer Ferenc Nemeth. 9 and 10:30, Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063; cover, $15. (Chinen)

RUDRESH MAHANTHAPPA QUARTET (Wednesday and Thursday) Mr. Mahanthappa uses both his razor-sharp alto saxophone tone and his compositional acumen in this group, with the pianist Vijay Iyer, the bassist Francois Moutin and the drummer Dan Weiss. The group is introducing ''Code Book,'' a work created with support from Chamber Music America, that will be the substance of Mr. Mahanthappa's next release. 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063; cover, $15. (Chinen)

REBECCA MARTIN (Thursday) A singer-songwriter with no small affinity for jazz harmony, Ms. Martin gets more than the usual support from her ensemble, which includes the tenor saxophonist Bill McHenry and the bassist Larry Grenadier, her husband. She shares a bill with Trevor Exter, a cellist and vocalist riding the contemporary current of acoustic pop. 7 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 539-8778; cover, $15, with a two-drink minimum. (Chinen)

PAT MARTINO QUINTET (Thursday through April 23) The guitarist Pat Martino's new Blue Note album, ''Remember: A Tribute to Wes Montgomery,'' does exactly what it purports to do. And it works, because of the untroubled self-assurance of the emulation and the simple satisfaction of a hard-swinging band. 8 and 10 p.m., with 11:30 sets on Friday and Saturday, Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

MULGREW MILLER QUARTET (Through Saturday) Mr. Miller is a smart pianist with roots firmly planted in jazz tradition, especially the blues. Here he corrals some strong younger players: Myron Walden, alto saxophonist; Ivan Taylor, bassist; and Rodney Green, drummer. 9 p.m., 11 p.m. and 12:30 a.m., Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662; cover, $25. (Chinen)

MARC MOMMAAS AND GLOBAL MOTION (Thursday) Mr. Mommaas, a Dutch tenor saxophonist, employs a fluid post-bop language in this band, with the Danish pianist Nikolaj Hess and the American rhythm team of John Hebert on bass and Tony Moreno on drums. Here the group workshops new pieces by Mr. Hess that draw inspiration from African music. 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, 212 989-9319; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

FRANK MORGAN QUARTET (Tuesday through April 23) Now in his 70's, the alto saxophonist Frank Morgan is one of the last survivors of the bebop era (and in his case, ''survivor'' is truly the appropriate term). He leads a sympathetic group consisting of John Hicks on piano, Curtis Lundy on bass and Victor Lewis on drums. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set Fridays and Saturdays, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

JENNY SCHEINMAN TRIO (Tuesday) As a violist and violinist, Ms. Scheinman often goes for rustic charm, but she never ceases to be an exploratory improviser. Her more experimental side is purposefully exposed in this setting, featuring the darkly consonant bass playing of Todd Sickafoose and the explosively elastic drumming of Jim Black. 7 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177; cover, $8. (Chinen)

JANIS SIEGEL (Wednesday through April 21) With her new album, ''A Thousand Beautiful Things'' (Telarc), Ms. Siegel applies her self-assured alto to songs by Raul Midon, Suzanne Vega and Nellie McKay. It's the same sort of popular eclecticism she enjoys in Manhattan Transfer, but a few degrees less cloying. 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080; cover, $30; $40 on April 21; with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

JOHN TCHICAI TRIO (Sunday) The Danish saxophonist and clarinetist John Tchicai developed a reputation for fiery exertions during the first wave of free jazz, but ''Good Night Songs'' (Boxholder), his new double CD with the saxophonist Charlie Kohlhase and the guitarist Garrison Fewell, conveys an often tenderhearted intimacy. 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319; cover, $12, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

Classical

Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.

 Opera

'ACIS AND GALATEA' (Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday) Mark Lamos's enchanting production of Handel's opera, introduced in 2001, returns to the New York City Opera with two artists making their company debuts in the leading roles. The soprano Sarah Jane McMahon is Galatea, the sea nymph hopelessly in love with a young sailor, Acis, sung by the tenor Philippe Castagner. Ransom Wilson conducts. Sunday at 1:30 p.m., Tuesday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $25 to $110. (Anthony Tommasini)

'LA BOHeME' (Tonight) James Robinson's production punts the Puccini favorite forward by some 80 years, placing the action in the opening months of World War I and lending an extra tug of pathos. A mostly new cast at the City Opera has taken over, with Yunah Lee as Mimi, Gerard Powers as Rodolfo, Jennifer Black as Musetta and Philip Torre as Marcello. David Wroe conducts. 8, New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $25 to $110. (Jeremy Eichler)

'CARMEN' (Tomorrow and Wednesday) Devilish is what you want in a Carmen, and on opening night at the New York City Opera, Kate Aldrich came through in that role, capturing not only Carmen's seductiveness but also her radical proto-feminist pride in her own independence. Unfortunately, there was scant chemistry between her and Robert Breault as Don Jose. Tomorrow at 1:30 p.m., Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; sold out tomorrow; $25 to $120 on Wednesday. (Eichler)

'DON GIOVANNI' (Tomorrow) A new cast takes over for the end of the spring run of Mozart's nearly perfect opera at the New York City Opera. Timothy Kuhn will make his company debut in the title role; Claudia Waite will make hers as Donna Anna; and Caroline Worra should be a credible Donna Elvira. Steven Mosteller conducts, adequately. 8 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $45 to $79. (Anne Midgette)

'DON GIOVANNI' (Tonight and tomorrow night) Amato's venerable recipe -- no rehearsals, changing casts at every performance -- should make for an unusual version of Mozart's classic dish, but at least the theater's small scale represents a kind of period fidelity. 7:30, Amato Opera, 319 Bowery, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 228-8200; $30; $25 for students and 65+. (Midgette)

* 'DON PASQUALE' (Tomorrow and Tuesday) The veteran Austrian director Otto Schenk understands that the way to make a rich, comic opera like Donizetti's ''Don Pasquale'' work is to treat it seriously. In his wonderful new production for the Met he taps into the emotions -- jealousy, yearning, fear of death -- that swirl below the surface of this farcical tale about a miserly bachelor who foolishly decides to take a young wife and disinherit his shiftless nephew. The cast is splendid, especially the charismatic soprano Anna Netrebko, the dynamic young baritone Mariusz Kwiecien and, in the title role, the stylish Italian bass Simone Alaimo. (On Tuesday, Lyubov Petrova sings Norina in place of Ms. Netrebko, and John Del Carlo replaces Mr. Alaimo.) Tomorrow at 1:30 p.m., Tuesday at 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; sold out tomorrow; $26 to $175 on Tuesday. (Tommasini)

'LOHENGRIN' (Monday and Thursday) Robert Wilson's luminous production of this luminous opera is not to every taste, but many find that it shines, and Karita Mattila should shine in it as Elsa. The title role should also fit Ben Heppner well. Luana DeVol, an American soprano who has been active mainly in Germany, is Ortrud. Replacing James Levine in the pit is the promising conductor Philippe Auguin, who made his Met debut replacing Mr. Levine in Busoni's ''Doktor Faustus.'' 7 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; $26 to $175. (Midgette)

'LA TRAVIATA' (Tonight) The Met's long-running and highly successful production finally comes to a close, here with Hei-Kyung Hong, Frank Lopardo and Dwayne Croft. 8, Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; sold out. (Bernard Holland)

Classical Music

BARGEMUSIC (Tonight, tomorrow, Sunday and Thursday) A weekly presenter of chamber music, this floating concert hall also offers great views of Lower Manhattan. Tonight at 7:30, Dmitri Alexeev performs piano works by Shostakovich, Tchaikovsky, Scriabin and Rachmaninoff. Concerts tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. and Sunday at 4 p.m. feature rarely heard music by the 18th-century Russian violinist Ivan Khandoshkin, along with Haydn, Shostakovich and Schubert. Sunday evening at 7:30 is a rescheduled performance of music by Messiaen, Beethoven and others. Thursday evening at 7:30, Carlos Prieto (cello) and Doris Stevenson (piano) survey more Shostakovich, as well as Piazzolla's ''Grand Tango.'' Fulton Ferry Landing, next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718) 624-2083; $35, tomorrow and Sunday afternoon, $40. (Eichler)

CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER (Wednesday) There will be Beethoven and Janacek quartets, and then the Pacifica and Miro Quartets will merge in the Mendelssohn Octet. 7:30 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 875-5788; $30 to $52. (Holland)

IL DOLCIMELO (Sunday) This German period-instrument ensemble makes its New York debut with works by Vivaldi, Scarlatti, Corelli and Telemann. 5 p.m., Frick Collection, 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700; $20. (Eichler)

JUILLIARD STRING QUARTET (Tuesday) The venerable Juilliard offers Mozart, Shostakovich and Brahms. 8 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 769-7406; free, but tickets are required. (Holland)

* NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC (Wednesday and Thursday) Mstislav Rostropovich approaches the music of Shostakovich with more authority and close personal knowledge than just about anyone. He returns to the Philharmonic to lead the composer's 10th Symphony and his gripping First Violin Concerto, with Maxim Vengerov as soloist. 7:30 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $33 to $104. (Eichler)

ORCHESTRA OF THE AGE OF ENLIGHTENMENT (Sunday) The key names here are less the orchestra's than that of Rene Jacobs, a conductor (and singer) who has reawakened many corners of period performance, and of Solomon, the title character in Handel's oratorio. Handel switched largely from opera to oratorio in the 1740's and wrote new oratorios for each Lenten season, so this offering is seasonal as well as inherently appealing. 3 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $56 (Midgette)

POMERIUM (Tomorrow) Alexander Blachly's superb early-music choir offers an Easter program with motets composed for Holy Week by Renaissance and early-Baroque composers, including Dufay, Senfl, Lassus, Gesualdo, Monteverdi and Byrd. 1 and 3 p.m., the Cloisters, Fort Tryon Park, Washington Heights, (212) 650-2290; $35. (Allan Kozinn)

* 'ST. MATTHEW PASSION' (Tonight and tomorrow) After acclaimed presentations in 1997 and 2001, Jonathan Miller's revelatory staging of Bach's astounding sacred work has returned to the Harvey Theater at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. The chorus members and orchestra musicians wear everyday clothing and sit facing one another in a circle so that they can enact the scenes from the story of Jesus' Crucifixion. Instrumentalists and singers interact with and even comfort one another during the sublime arias. Rufus Muller is a charismatic Evangelist; Curtis Streetman makes an affectingly husky and noble Jesus. Paul Goodwin, who conceived the production with Mr. Miller, conducts. 7:30 p.m., 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100; $30 to $90. (Tommasini)

* SAN FRANCISCO SYMPHONY (Wednesday and Thursday) Michael Tilson Thomas has made this orchestra into one of the country's best, and its visits to Carnegie Hall are invariably illuminating. His programs include a range of composers from the late-19th and early-20th centuries, among them, Debussy, Ravel, Wagner and Mahler on Wednesday, and Webern, Stravinsky and Ives on Thursday. Jean-Yves Thibaudet is the soloist in the Ravel Piano Concerto in G. 8 p.m., (212) 247-7800; $28 to $97. (Kozinn)

FAZIL SAY (Tonight) This young Turkish pianist plays with energy and, when he is at his best, the improvisatory sensibilities of a jazz performer. His program includes the Brahms Intermezzi (Op. 117) and plenty of Bach, both straight (the Italian Concerto and the French Suite No. 6) or hyphenated (Busoni's transcription of the Chaconne, along with arrangements by Liszt and Mr. Say himself). 8, Metropolitan Museum of Art, (212) 570-3949; $40. (Kozinn)

Dance

Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.

ALLEN BODY GROUP AND JENNIE MARYTAI LiU (Tonight and tomorrow) Science is the inspiration for Malinda Allen's ''Einstein's Dreams'' and Ms. Liu's ''Learning in Lower Animals.'' 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077, dtw.org. Tickets: $20. (Jennifer Dunning)

'A BENEFIT OF THE DOUBT' (Tomorrow) This benefit for Jonah Bokaer's new Chez Bushwick Studios is a tribute to Charles Atlas, a filmmaker who has worked with Merce Cunningham. The evening includes a screening of a film and video work by Mr. Atlas (5 p.m.), a performance by artists who have collaborated with Mr. Atlas (7:30 p.m.) and a ''Shtudio Show'' (at 9 p.m. ) Chez Bushwick Studios, 304 Boerum Street, Apt. 11, Bushwick, Brooklyn, (917) 459-1072. Tickets: $50 and $150; $250 includes cocktails and dinner. (Dunning)

BALLET FIESTA MEXICANA (Tonight through Sunday) Yloy Ybarra's company returns in a program of music and dance from Mexico, with live music performed by the group Semilla. Through April 30. Tonight and tomorrow at 8 p.m.; Sunday at 4 p.m. Thalia Spanish Theater, 41-17 Greenpoint Avenue, Sunnyside, Queens, (718) 729-3880. Tickets: $25 to $30. (Dunning)

CHILDREN OF UGANDA (Tonight through Sunday) Twenty children, ages 8 to 18, will celebrate the culture of their country and of East Africa in song and dance to raise money for Uganda's 1.7 million AIDS and war orphans. Tonight at 7, tomorrow at 2 and 7 p.m., Sunday at 2 p.m. Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $25; $15 for children. (Dunning)

SELMA JEANNE COHEN: A TRIBUTE TO HER LIFE AND WORK (Tomorrow) The last event in this free series is ''Next Week, Swan Lake: Approaches to Dance History and Criticism,'' a panel discussion including Mindy Aloff, Jack Anderson, Marcia Siegel and George Dorris. 3 p.m., Bruno Walter Auditorium, New York Public Library for the Performing Arts, 111 Amsterdam Avenue, at 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 642-0142. Free. (Dunning)

'DANCE PLUS SPRING' (Thursday through April 23) The program includes dances by David Dorfman, Julia Ritter, John Evans, Randy James and Paulette Sears, all dance teachers, and Megan Hebert, a student choreographer. Thursday, next Friday and April 22 at 8 p.m.; April 23 at 2 p.m., Mason Gross Performing Arts Center, 85 George Street, between Route 18 and Ryders Lane, Douglass College campus, New Brunswick, N.J., (732) 932-7511 or masongross.rutgers.edu. Tickets: $20 (Dunning)

* MARTHA GRAHAM DANCE COMPANY (Tuesday) The company seems to be in transition, to put it mildly, but it is still the primary keeper of some of the great modern-dance repertory of the last century, and of some wonderful dancers. The major event is a gala on Tuesday that includes Richard Move, the Graham impersonator, performing a duet with Desmond Richardson, and a solo by Fang-Yi Sheu. 7:30 p.m., Skirball Center for the Performing Arts, 566 LaGuardia Place, at Washington Square South. For $45 performance tickets, (212) 992-8484; for $150 and $500 gala tickets, (212) 521-3667, or marthagraham.org. Also on Tuesday, five generations of Graham performers will give a master class in the studio where Graham taught in the 1930's. 11:30 a.m., 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5553. Audience: $15. Participants: $12 for professionals, $15 for others. Ancillary events continue on April 21 and 25. (John Rockwell)

MARIA HASSABI (Tonight and tomorrow) Hip, rawly emotional and mysterious, Ms. Hassabi will present her new program, ''Still Smoking,'' which investigates the frenetic experience of city life. Tonight at 7 and 9:30; tomorrow at 8 p.m., the Kitchen, 512 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-5793, ext. 11, thekitchen.org. Tickets: $12. (Dunning)

LEADING LADIES: ALETHEA ADSITT & COMPANY (Tonight and tomorrow) This festival of dances by women continues with ''the new jalopy,'' a new multimedia, site-specific piece presented by Alethea Adsitt & Company. 8 and 10 p.m., Dance New Amsterdam, 280 Broadway, at Chambers Street, SoHo, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com or dnadance.org. Tickets: $17. (Dunning)

NEWSTEPS (Thursday through April 22) Miriam Hess, Jessica Ray and Adrienne F. Westwood are among those featured, as the Mulberry Street Theater's semiannual choreographers' showcase explores themes of power, relationship and memory. 8 p.m., 70 Mulberry Street, second floor (corner of Mulberry and Bayard Streets), Chinatown, (212) 349-0126. Tickets: $12. (Claudia La Rocco)

DAVID PARKER AND THE BANG GROUP (Tonight and tomorrow) The irrepressible Mr. Parker will present dances that include his new ''Backward and in Heels,'' a piece for six dancers that is set to music. That music incorporates excerpts from the score from ''The Sound of Music''; ''Hava Nagila,'' played by a hand-bell choir; and Schubert's ''Ave Maria.'' 8:30 p.m., Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400, symphonyspace.org. Tickets: $21. (Dunning)

MARISSA PEREL (Tonight and tomorrow) Ms. Perel, who has worked with Miguel Gutierrez, will present her new ''Burden,'' a dance performance and installation that also features the dancer Kayvon Pourazar and the musician Jon Moniaci. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8. The Chocolate Factory, 5-49 49th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (212) 352-3101 or theatermania.com. Tickets: $15. (Dunning)

* STEPHEN PETRONIO COMPANY (Tuesday through Sunday) What do you get when you mix the singer-songwriter Rufus Wainwright, the Young People's Chorus of New York City and Stephen Petronio's extravagant movement language? A concert not to be missed. Tuesday through April 22 at 8 p.m., April 23 at 2 and 7:30 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800. Tickets: $40. (La Rocco)

PILAR RIOJA (Tonight through Sunday) It almost doesn't matter what this New York favorite performs, but for the record, the program will include some of Ms. Rioja's favorite flamenco dances. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8; Sunday at 3 p.m.; Monday at 11 a.m. Repertorio Espanol, 138 East 27th Street, between Lexington and Third Avenues, (212) 225-9920. Tickets: $25 to $50. (Dunning)

RUSSIAN NATIONAL BALLET (Tomorrow) An indefatigable touring company based in Moscow, with guest stars from elsewhere in Russia, in ''Swan Lake,'' of all things. 8 p.m., Queensborough Performing Arts Center, Queensborough Community College, 222-05 56th Avenue, Bayside, Queens, (718) 631-6311. Tickets: $39 and $42. (Rockwell)

* SOURCING STRAVINSKY (Wednesday through April 22) Six choreographers take on Stravinsky, with Yvonne Rainer (in a rare new dance work) using both Stravinsky and Balanchine's ''Agon.'' The other choreographers are Cynthia Hopkins, Dayna Hanson and Linas Phillips, David Neumann and Rennie Harris. 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077 or dtw.org. Tickets: $15 and $25. (Rockwell)

'TRAS LADOS' (Thursday through April 23) Artists from Mexico to Japan come together for the latest installment of Danspace Project's Global Exchange series. Choreographed by Eun Jung Gonzalez, in collaboration with Pulso Compania de Danza. 8:30 p.m., Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194 or danspaceproject.org. Tickets: $15. (La Rocco)

TRINAYAN COLLECTIVE (Tonight through Sunday) This New York-based company of Indian classical dancers will explore the notion of the witness in ''Sakshi/Witness,'' a dance in the Odissi style. 8 p.m., Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, between Houston and Prince Streets, SoHo, (212) 334-7479. Tickets: $25; $20 for students and 65+. (Dunning)

Art

Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.

 Museums

* BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'SYMPHONIC POEM: THE ART OF AMINAH BRENDA LYNN ROBINSON,' through Aug. 14. This prodigious show, by an artist born and still living in Columbus, Ohio, celebrates her heritage in paintings, drawings, sculpture, stitchery, leather work and less classifiable forms of expression. Besides its sheer visual wizardry, using materials like leaves, twigs, bark, buttons and cast-off clothes, her art is compelling in that it ruminates on the history of black migration to, and settlement in, the United States, from early times to the present, in a garrulous, very personal way. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000. (Grace Glueck)

* Brooklyn Museum: WILLIAM WEGMAN: 'FUNNEY/STRANGE,' through May 28. Descended from Marcel Duchamp and Buster Keaton, Mr. Wegman has straddled high and low for more than three decades, using his signature Weimaraners to make the art world's funniest videos, as well as television commercials, calendars and children's books. His popular success has tended to obscure his originality and influence, along with a multifarious production that includes wittily captioned drawings, wonderfully irreverent paintings and a host of nondog photographic work. This thorough and thoroughly entertaining retrospective highlights not only the accessibility of his richly human art, but also its dedication to the 1970's notion that art should not look like art. (See above.) (Roberta Smith)

* FRICK COLLECTION: 'GOYA's LAST WORKS,' through May 14. This compact show is sublime. The most humane portraits are mixed with sketches, like diary entries, in which society is an irredeemable mob of lunatics and murderers. In exile in Bordeaux, Goya spent his last days in physical misery, lamenting man's essential evil while experimenting with the new medium of lithography and inventing the most exquisite, luminous paintings on tiny chips of ivory. Like the late works of Titian or Rembrandt, Goya's late works achieve a whole new level of freedom and depth, haunted by death but exalted. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700. (Michael Kimmelman)

* Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum: 'David Smith: A Centennial,' through May 14. David Smith is best known for his worst work, bulky sculptures of the ''important'' kind that museums and banks like to buy. Much (though not all) of that material has been excised from this survey in favor of smaller, earlier, nonmonumental pieces that the curator, Carmen Gimenez, presents with plenty of air and light. The result is exemplary as a David Smith experience, an American Modernism experience and a Guggenheim Museum experience. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500. (Holland Cotter)

* International Center of Photography: 'Snap Judgments: New Positions in Contemporary African Photography,' through May 28. If Martians tuned into our television news broadcasts, they'd have a miserable impression of life on Earth. War, disease, poverty, heartbreak and nothing else. That's exactly how most of the world sees Africa: filtered through images of calamity. The Nigerian-born curator Okwui Enwezor offers a bracing alternative view in this show of recent photography from Africa. He isn't interested in simply exchanging an upbeat Africa for a downbeat one, smiles for frowns, but in engineering a slow, complex, panoptical turn in perspective, one that takes in many moods and directions. The results are stimulating, astringent, brimming with life. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000. (Cotter)

METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'HATSHEPSUT,' through July 9. Can a queen be a king, too? Consider the case of Hatshepsut, an Egyptian ruler of the 15th century B.C. She assumed the supreme title of pharaoh and ruled Egypt in that powerfully masculine role until her death. Hatshepsut is the subject of a celebratory show at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, one that commemorates the 100th anniversary of the Met's department of Egyptian art. Organized by the Met and the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco, it includes many objects from the Met's own extensive holdings, excavated at its digs in the 1920's and 30's. But it isn't so easy to follow Hatshepsut's trail in this ambitious show, what with the number of relatives, subordinates, minor officials and such who also have a place in it, along with scarabs, jewelry, pottery, furniture and other artifacts. (212) 535-7710. (Glueck)

Met: KARA WALKER AT THE MET: 'AFTER THE DELUGE,' through July 30. The Metropolitan Museum of Art's first foray into artist-organized shows is a small tour de force of curatorial creativity. Inspired partly by Hurricane Katrina, Ms. Walker has combined works from the Met with examples of her own art, connecting shared themes of race, poverty and water to illuminate contemporary art's inevitable dialogue with past art. The show has as many crosscurrents and undertows as a river. (See above.) (Smith)

THE MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'EDVARD MUNCH: THE MODERN LIFE OF THE SOUL,' through May 8. This affecting, full-scale retrospective is the first survey of this Norwegian painter in an American museum in almost 30 years. Its more than 130 oils and works on paper cover Munch's entire career, from 1880 to 1944. (212) 708-9400. (Glueck)

THE MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'ON SITE: NEW ARCHITECTURE IN SPAIN,' through May 1. Since the early 1970's, when Spain began to awaken from the isolation of a four-decade dictatorship, Spanish architects have produced designs of unusual depth, often with a firm connection to the land, a sense of humility and a way of conveying continuity with the past while embracing the present. Packed with pretty images and elegant models, this exhibition lacks the scholarly depth you might have hoped for on such a mesmerizing subject. (See above.) (Nicolai Ouroussoff)

* The Museum of Modern Art: 'Without Boundary: Seventeen Ways of Looking,' through May 22. This excellent group show considers what ''Islamic'' means in the work of several contemporary artists, and it means many things, none simple. Just to see the uses made of calligraphy by Shirazeh Houshiary, Rachid Koraichi and Shirin Neshat is to understand the lesson in variety put forward here. At the same time, the show is far from didactic. It's beautiful, sexy and, in the case of Raqib Shaw's painting and Kutlug Ataman's video of Sufi meditation, ecstatic. (See above.) (Cotter)

National Academy Museum: 'Treasures from Olana: Landscapes by Frederic Edwin Church,' through April 30. Exquisite small landscape studies by the best of the Hudson River School painters. They are from the collection at Olana, the Persian-style Victorian mansion -- now a museum -- that Church built on an upstate hill overlooking the Hudson River. 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 369-4880. (Ken Johnson)

NEUE GALERIE: 'KLEE AND AMERICA,' through May 22. For a long time, the Swiss-born artist Paul Klee (1879-1940), regarded as a leading Modernist figure in Europe, didn't believe his delicate, chimerical work had much of a future in the United States. Yet, thanks to artists, collectors and dealers with close contacts in Germany who had begun to discover his work, by the early 1920's, Klee's impact began to be felt here. This show of more than 60 paintings and drawings assembled exclusively from American holdings covers the wide spectrum of Klee's work. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200. (Glueck)

P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center: 'The Thirteen: Chinese Video Now,' through April 24. A snappy roundup of recent video, a favored medium among young artists in a digitally savvy 21st-century China, this show has two fine pieces by Cao Fei, who has garnered much attention recently. It is also the occasion for several worthy New York debuts. Some of the art is light, slight, and MTV-ish, but artists like Cui Xiuwen, Xu Zhen, Li Songhua, Xu Tan, Meng Jin and Dong Wensheng give us a lot. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084. (Cotter)

* The Studio Museum In harlem: 'Energy/Experimentation: Black Artists and Abstraction, 1964-1980,' through July 2. During one of the most radical periods in 20th-century American politics, the Black Power era, a group of African-American artists was working in one of the most radical forms of 20th-century art, abstraction. This show is stylishly installed (one gallery bursts with color, another has a cool platinum shimmer); the 15 artists are intensely individualistic and part of an important history. One, the sculptor Tom Lloyd (1921-96), opened the Studio Museum with a solo show in 1968. 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500. (Cotter)

Whitney Museum of American Art: 'WHITNEY BIENNIAL 2006: DAY FOR NIGHT,' through May 28. This biennial will provoke much head-scratching by uninitiated visitors. A hermetic take on what has been making waves, it's packaged -- branded might be the better word -- as a show long on collaboration and open-endedness: several shows under one roof, including a revival of the 1960's ''Peace Tower,'' which rises like a Tinker Toy construction from the Whitney courtyard, with contributions by dozens of artists. As a counter to the image of the art world as rich, youth-besotted and obsessed with crafty little nothings, the ethos here is provisional, messy, half-baked, cantankerous, insular -- radical qualities art used to have when it could still call itself radical and wasn't like a barnacle clinging to the cruise ship of pop culture. That was back in the 1970's. And much of what's here (including works by bohemians and other senior eccentrics around then) harks back to that moment. (800) 944-8639 or www.whitney.org. (Kimmelman)

Galleries: Uptown

PETER BEGLEY Parisian esprit enlivens Peter Begley's latest multipanel paintings. Their motif is the cornice: a ubiquitous emblem of Baron Haussmann's grand boulevards, which, abstracted and made delicately ornate, permits Mr. Begley to add illusory depth to his usual richly worked, waxy fields of warm color. Partly the filigree, partly the gentle rapture with his recently adopted city give to these new works a bit of the elan of old Raoul Dufy. Salander-OReilly, 20 East 79th Street, (212) 879-6606, through April 22. (Kimmelman)

Tony Cragg: 'Five Bottles' In the early 1980's, this eminent English sculptor made flat, mosaiclike works out of found colored plastic objects and fragments. This show presents a set of five wall-works, each representing a different giant colored bottle composed of toys, combs, cigarette lighters and other pieces of ordinary commercial detritus. Vivian Horan, 35 East 67th Street, (212) 517-9410, through April 21. (Johnson)

'1968: All in a Dream' In 1968 the photographer Lenny Gottlieb saved 30,000 snapshots that were supposed to have been thrown out at the photographic processing lab where he was working. Approximately 500 of them are on view here; collectively, they offer an enthralling cross-section of American life during a year of tremendous change. Andrew Roth, 160A East 70th Street, (212) 717-9067, through April 29. (Johnson)

* NAGASAWA ROSETSU This rare survey of this eccentric painter of 18th-century Kyoto consists of 14 works that reveal a breathtaking command of different skills and styles in portraiture, landscape, nature painting and calligraphic minimalism, and an almost chameleonlike instinct for using them. Koichi Yanagi Oriental Fine Arts, 58A East 66th Street, (212) 744-5577, through Thursday. (Smith)

Galleries: 57th Street

Darren Almond /Janice Kerbel: 'The Impossible Landscape' Nothing is obvious in this handsome show of works by two London-based Conceptualists. The connection is that both make visible things that are in different ways impossible. Ms. Kerbel's elegantly abstracted designs for gardens in an office, a Laundromat and other unlikely places are meant to be imagined but never actually built. Mr. Almond's sumptuous, subtly eerie landscape photographs were shot at night using long exposures, making visible what would be invisible to the naked eye. The Horticultural Society of New York, 128 West 58th Street, (212) 757-0915, through May 5. (Johnson)

Galleries: SoHo

Rico Gatson: 'African Fractals' Mr. Gatson's suave geometric paintings and sculptures of symbolically charged vernacular objects -- a whipping post in the form of a Christian cross with wrist-holes, for example -- feature African-style stripe patterns, creating a dialogue between utopian modernism and tragic social history. A video installation produces hypnotic patterns out of films of the pageantry surrounding the great boxing match between Muhammed Ali and George Foreman that took place in Zaire in 1974. Ronald Feldman, 31 Mercer Street, (212) 226-3232, through April 22. (Johnson)

Joelle Tuerlinckx: 'Drawing Inventory' A prominent Belgian Conceptualist presents a dry and oblique installation consisting of a large quantity of ordinary materials more or less related to the art of drawing. The Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street, (212) 219-2166, through April 22. (Johnson)

'When Artists Say We' This timely sociological experiment of a show features 17 artists or artist groups who were invited to create wall-diagrams or mini-exhibitions reflecting on the social networks out of which contemporary art emerges. Artists Space, 38 Green Street, (212) 226-3970, through April 29. (Johnson)

Galleries: Chelsea

Tara Donovan Known for creating improbable accumulations of ordinary things, Ms. Donovan here has arranged three million plastic cups in stacks from ankle-high to five feet. They make a 50-by-60-foot rectangle on the floor, resembling a lumpy field of snow. PaceWildenstein, 545 West 22nd Street, (212) 929-7000, through April 22. (Johnson)

NAN GOLDIN: 'CHASING A GHOST' A riveting if flawed three-screen video projection titled ''Sisters, Saints & Sibyls'' hauntingly details the trauma that drives Ms. Goldin's invasive, yet oddly solitary photographs, as well as her lifelong battle with addiction: the suicide of her troubled older sister in 1965 at the age of 18. The piece mixes video, family snapshots and the artist's photographs, and is heightened by a sensitive selection of music that may almost do too much of the work. But its unalloyed honesty offers extreme evidence that most art begins in an attempt to heal a deep psychic wound. Matthew Marks Gallery, 522 West 22nd Street, (212) 243-0200, through April 22. (Smith)

Markus Hansen: 'Other People's Feelings Are Also My Own' In high-definition video projections of pairs of photographs, Mr. Hansen, a Paris-based German artist, dresses like and adopts the facial expression of the man, woman or child in the picture next to his. Whatever his project means to say about modern identity, it is absorbing to study how closely he is able to match other people's feelings, which range from carefree happiness to doleful anxiety. Virgil de Voldere, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 343-9694, through April 22. (Johnson)

* MARK LECKeY: 'DRUNKEN BAKERS' This cinematically gifted British artist raises his game with a stop-action animation made by simply shooting a raunchy, well-drawn comic strip for adults in close-up, turning its speech balloons into spoken dialogue and adding realistic sound effects. Shown in an increasingly grubby white-on-white cube, the work is elegantly efficient, funny and dark, and adds another twist to the convoluted history of appropriation art. GBE @ Passerby, 436 West 15th Street, (212) 627-5258, through April 22. (Smith)

Eve K. Tremblay: 'Tales Without Grounds' A rising young Canadian photographer presents glossy staged photographs of people doing enigmatic things in and around a large facility for hydroponic lettuce cultivation. With their cinematically intense colors, Ms. Tremblay's pictures are like stills from a Tarkovskian science fiction movie. Buia, 541 West 23rd Street, (212) 366-9915, through April 22. (Johnson)

Other Galleries

'B-Side' This engaging group show includes Tim Spelios's beautifully made Surrealistic drum set in which the components are square rather than round; Matt Freedman's life-size sculpture of a boy with a lion's teeth and elephant eyes; Mary Carlson's crocheted works resembling splats of blood on the wall; Joyce Pensato's expressionistically painted clown face; Judith Page's ghoulish and viscous small portraits; Meredith Allen's funny and scary photographs of dogs; and a painting by Jim Torok that declares: ''You have no worries. Things are going well. Don't wake up.'' Sarah Bowen, 210 North Sixth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 302-4517, through April 30. (Johnson)

'Zoo Story' A clay gorilla by Daisy Youngblood, a bronze she-wolf by Kiki Smith, a flock of concrete sheep by Francoise-Xavier Lalanne and works about animals by more than 20 other artists, including John Baldessari, Katharina Fritsch, Ross Bleckner and Rebecca Horn, turn the first floor of this sleek, three-story private museum into a diverting menagerie. Fisher Landau Center for Art, 38-27 30th Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 937-0727, through June 12. (Johnson)

Last Chance

TIM BARBER A fresh, even touching reprise of the overused convention of walls papered with unframed photographs and small, cartoonish drawings, this show has been culled from Mr. Barber's Web site, tinyvices.com. With 250 people represented, it blurs the line between professional and amateur and introduces a savvy curatorial eye. Spencer Brownstone Gallery, 39 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212) 334-3455; closes tomorrow. (Smith)

* BLUE GLAZE OF THE TANG This exceptional exhibition of Tang horses, court ladies, equestrian figures and grooms brings together rare examples of the unusually painterly sancai ware in which the traditional three-color glaze includes cobalt blue. Berwald Oriental Art, 5 East 57th Street, (212) 319-1519; closes tomorrow. (Smith)

Marcel Broodthaers This reverential exhibition of just three works by a Belgian Conceptualist regarded as a Duchampian saint in some sectors of the art world includes a hat painted white and attached to a canvas painted black and white; a work called ''L'Erreur,'' consisting of 45 eggshells attached to a canvas labeled ''moules,'' the French word for mussels; and a set of canvases neatly inscribed with words relating to the composition and sale of paintings. Peter Freeman, 560 Broadway, near Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 966-5154; closes tomorrow. (Johnson)

PHIL COLLINS In his third New York solo show, this British artist presents two video pieces in which interviews with Turkish reality show participants and a series of karaoke performances create a kind of ambient documentary about life, television and the pursuit of celebrity. While the show is a bit short on artistic nutrients, the cumulative effect says almost more than is bearable about the combination of delusion and oppression that fuels everyday life. Tanya Bonakdar Gallery, 521 West 21st Street, Chelsea, (212) 414-4144; closes tomorrow. (Smith)

* Dan Fischer Velvety graphite drawings copied from Xerox copies of book and magazine images of well-known artists like Robert Smithson and Sol LeWitt and artworks like Jeff Koons's iconic ''Rabbit'' evoke and possibly satirize the reverence that some people feel for modern and contemporary art. Derek Eller, 615 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 206-6411; closes tomorrow. (Johnson)

Daniel Johnston: 'The Story of an Artist' The nearly 70 ballpoint and felt-tip drawings by this semi-outsider artist, rock musician and 2006 Whitney Biennial pick don't live up to the hype, but they are fun to look at. In a distracted but versatile faux-adolescent style, the Texas-based Mr. Johnston creates sweet and sometimes hair-raising cartoon improvisations on themes of love, sex, hope, despair and death. Clementine, 632 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 243-5937; closes tomorrow. (Johnson)

* FRANCIS PICABIA: 'WORKS ON PAPER, 1901-1951' Consistent with the predominantly linear, sometimes kitschy imagery of the artist's proto-postmodern transparency paintings, the 100 works on paper here reveal a lifelong involvement with drawing, marked by an indifference to notions of style, taste, consistency, skill or progress. It is both a challenge and a treat. Michael Werner, 4 East 77th Street, (212) 988-1623; closes tomorrow. (Smith)

GRAPHIC: Photos: POP -- Lee Sargent, left, Robbie Guertin, Alec Ounsworth, Tyler Sargent and Sean Greenhalgh of Clap Your Hands Say Yeah, who play the Bowery Ballroom, Page 24. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)
THEATER -- Domhnall Gleeson, left, and Kerry Condon in Martin McDonagh's play ''The Lieutenant of Inishmore,'' at the Lyceum Theater, this page. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)
 ART -- Joe Overstreet's shaped painting ''Saint Expedite A'' is in the exhibition ''Energy/Experimentation: Black Artists and Abstraction, 1964-1980,'' at the Studio Museum in Harlem, Page 26. (Photo by Kenkeleba Gallery)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE RELEASE DATES (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (77%); MUSIC (77%); MILITARY OFFENSES (63%); MILITARY COURTS (60%); ARMED FORCES (60%); THEATER (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JULIA ROBERTS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006



305 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Rate Signals Burdens For Borrowers 

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
The era of cheap money may finally be nearing its end.
 Investors pushed up the yield on the government's benchmark note to over 5 percent on Thursday, its highest point in nearly four years and a signal that many borrowers will soon be paying more on mortgages and home equity loans.
Driven by a stronger economy and a nearly two-year money-tightening campaign by the Federal Reserve, the rising level of interest rates across the board is expected to have the biggest impact on people who took out home loans with low introductory interest rates that are set to adjust in line with market rates in the next few years. 
 The 10-year Treasury note, which crossed the 5 percent threshold yesterday for the first time since June 2002, serves as a touchstone for a variety of borrowers, from consumers to corporations and governments. But it is most closely tied to mortgages and is likely to play a role in slowing home price increases and curbing the home-buying frenzy in many parts of the country. 
 ''Where you are going to feel the pain the most is on the housing market,'' said Brian J. Carlin, a vice president at J. P. Morgan Private Bank.
 Mr. Carlin estimated that recent homebuyers with adjustable rate mortgages could experience a jump in interest rates of 3 to 4 percentage points in the next two years, as the typical 3 percent introductory rate is adjusted higher in annual increments. For a family with a $400,000 mortgage, that could translate into an increase of as much as $1,000 in monthly interest payments. 
 Mortgage delinquencies have already started climbing, although they remain at relatively low levels. In the fourth quarter of last year, 4.7 percent of all home mortgages were delinquent, up from 4.4 percent in the third quarter, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association of America. A delinquent loan is one in which monthly payments are past due for 60 days or more.
 But experts note that by past standards borrowing costs still remain modest and that the recent interest rate increases may have only a limited effect on economic growth. For many Americans, the growing number of jobs and improvements in incomes are likely to outweigh the impact of higher mortgage costs.
 ''If we go back six years,'' said Harold S. Woolley, a managing director at Bessemer Trust, an investment management firm based in New York, ''people thought 5 percent was a pretty low rate.''
 For much of the last year, analysts and policy makers have struggled to explain why long-term interest rates have remained relatively low, given the Fed's campaign to push up interest rates by increasing its benchmark short-term rate, now at 4.75 percent. Investors now expect the Fed to raise interest rates at least once more, to 5 percent, at its meeting next month.
 In a speech yesterday, Donald L. Kohn, a Fed governor, said that rising interest rates were likely to slow the economy later this year, primarily by deflating the once-robust housing market. He indicated that he would favor increasing short-term rates further if the economy sharply accelerated or energy prices shot up, because both could ignite higher inflation.
 ''A tendency for inflation to move higher would put economic stability and the long-term performance of the economy at risk,'' he told bankers at a luncheon in Oklahoma City. Mr. Kohn said that inflation excluding energy and food costs had so far remained modest at about 2 percent.
 On Wall Street, the stock market was little changed yesterday in light trading, in part because the start of Passover this week and the Good Friday holiday led many traders to take time off. 
 Many analysts say that longer-term interest rates in the United States have been kept low by the purchase of government securities by foreign governments and investors, particularly from Asia.
 There are some early indications that foreign buying is easing. In the first week of April, for instance, the Japanese government purchased foreign bonds at a much slower rate than it did during the comparable period from 2003 to 2005, said Wan-Chong Kung, a senior portfolio manager at First American Funds, a mutual fund company in Minneapolis.
 ''We have seen some moderation in buying from Asia, and I think we will continue to see that,'' Ms. Kung said, noting that recent interest rate increases by central banks in Europe and Japan were conditioning investors to higher borrowing costs across the world.
 The Mortgage Bankers Association estimates that the burden of higher interest costs would fall on about 7 percent to 8 percent of all homeowners. The rest have either paid off their mortgages or face no immediate increase because they took out fixed-rate mortgages or refinanced their earlier loans to mortgages that hold rates steady for 5 to 10 years.
 At the same time, new homebuyers will be paying more. 
 The average national 30-year fixed mortgage interest rate was 6.43 percent last week, up from 6.21 percent at the start of the year and 5.71 percent at the start of 2005, according to Freddie Mac. The introductory interest rate on a five-year adjustable-rate mortgage was up to 6.11 percent, from 5.78 percent in January and 5.3 percent a year ago.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Rates Rising''The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose above 5 percent yesterday for the first time since June 2002.Graph tracks 10-year Treasury yield, weekly since 2002.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); HOME PRICES (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%) Credit; Housing; Mortgages; United States Economy; Government Bonds; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Credit

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006



306 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Friends to Desert Plants, Even the Prickly Ones
Since it was organized six years ago by the Tucson Cactus and Succulent Society, the Cactus Rescue Crew has rescued more than 27,000 cactuses and other native plants in Arizona from becoming casualties of road widenings, subdivisions, golf courses and shopping malls. PAGE A18

Moussaoui Delighted in Pain 

Zacarias Moussaoui took the stand for the second time in his sentencing trial and told the jury of the delight he took in watching the parade of witnesses who testified about their pain from losing loved ones on Sept. 11. PAGE A16

Political Paralysis in Europe
Europeans are worried that weak governments and divided publics in Germany, France and Italy are preventing the economic changes that most political leaders agree are needed. NEWS ANALYSIS, PAGE A8

Leading the Charge in Nepal
A vast majority of those demonstrating for democracy in cities all over Nepal are adults who came of age after 1990, when democratic rule was first introduced there. PAGE A3

No Gains in Talks With Iran
A trip to Iran by the head of the International Atomic Energy Agency, Mohamed ElBaradei, brought no agreement by Iran to halt production of enriched uranium. PAGE A14

Auto Bailout Seems Unlikely
In the 1970's, the government agreed to help Chrysler, which was on the brink of bankruptcy. Today, though, Washington shows little inclination to rescue the auto industry. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

A Sales Halt for Lens Solution
After reports of illness, Bausch & Lomb said it had asked retailers to temporarily remove its ReNu With MoistureLoc contact lens solution from shelves. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C

Surprise Searches at School
Officers with metal detectors will make unannounced sweeps of students and their bags at New York City schools to root out guns. PAGE B1

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Chris Richards for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); RETAILERS (77%); WITNESSES (76%); DESERTS (73%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (72%); TESTIMONY (71%); JURY TRIALS (71%); SENTENCING (71%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); METAL DETECTORS (68%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (66%); OPHTHALMIC PHARMACEUTICALS (64%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (55%)

PERSON: MOHAMED ELBARADEI (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEPAL (92%); GERMANY (70%); FRANCE (70%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006



307 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Playing Governor Knows Best

 BODY:
Gov. George Pataki on Wednesday afternoon had the stern demeanor of a parent who had just taken away the teenagers' credit cards. Mr. Pataki was announcing 202 budget vetoes that would carve almost $3 billion out of a $116 billion budget. In general, his choices were as smart as they were stunning to the state legislators, who had expected much narrower cuts. 
 The lawmakers should now proceed very carefully. If they scramble to restore all the pork, the grab bag of election-driven tax cuts and the pots of spending protected by powerful special interests, they will look exactly like the very spendthrifts and wastrels the governor is trying to guard against.
 Of course, everyone is using this year's budget battle as a prelude to future elections. The Legislature's budget was larded with an eye to this fall. And Mr. Pataki is clearly preening for the 2008 presidential primary season by burnishing his credentials as a fiscally responsible Republican. 
 Nevertheless, most of the governor's cuts make sense. He has scaled back tax cuts that the state cannot afford. At this point, he has even cut his own ill-conceived voucher proposal -- a tax credit that could be used for private schools. That voucher system is toxic and should remain on the cutting room floor, no matter what future budget negotiations bring.
 The governor also wiped out about $200 million worth of undesignated funds that the legislators enjoy spending on pet projects in their home districts. That last gesture alone would earn him a gold star -- except that he left intact the other huge vat of money for economic development. That left him cutting funds for college buildings while paying $150 million to help build stadiums for the already rich owners of the Yankees and the Mets. 
 The governor wisely left intact the $11.2 billion in capital funds for city schools -- a down payment on a court-ordered increase in money for New York City's students. He also protected the best tax cut of the lot, which ends the state tax on clothing or shoes costing under $110.
 If there is one area that the Legislature needs to address, it is higher education. The public university system has had to tighten its belt like everyone else, but that should not include cutting aid to poor students or funds to ensure that a decent proportion of classes are taught by actual professors rather than pathetically underpaid part-timers. 
 Mr. Pataki has staged this particular phase of the budget as a constitutional showdown, arguing that recent court cases have given New York's governor almost complete control over the state budgeting process. His theories will be tested again in the courts. But if legislators want to bring the public to their side in this power struggle, a lot will depend on whether they act responsibly now. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (75%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); POOR POPULATION (68%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%) Editorials; Vetoes (US); Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2008

PERSON: George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006



308 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: The I.R.S.'s Shotgun Marriage

BYLINE: By Shari Motro. 
Shari Motro is an assistant professor at the University of Richmond School of Law.

DATELINE: Richmond 

 BODY:
THIS tax season some 100 million married Americans will sign joint tax returns. Few understand the consequences. In signing a joint return, each spouse becomes responsible for the taxes due on both spouses' earnings for the year. That means that if a husband who is his family's sole breadwinner underreports his income and then abandons his wife, the I.R.S. can, and often does, go after the wife. Thus, the ''innocent spouse'' may be liable for taxes, interest and penalties on income she never earned and never owned. 
 While spouses are theoretically free to file separate returns, in most cases doing so subjects them to higher taxes than they would owe filing together. Not surprisingly, the overwhelming majority -- some 97 percent -- of married Americans file jointly. 
Recognizing that the joint liability rule is unfair, Congress has enacted provisions intended to alleviate the burden on innocent spouses. But these relief provisions still leave millions of spouses liable for taxes on income they have no rights to. Most of them are women. 
 One solution is to further improve innocent spouse relief. Along these lines, the national taxpayer advocate at the I.R.S. has issued a proposal that seeks to limit liability for lower-income spouses. But while such efforts are laudable and should be given serious consideration, they don't get at the heart of the problem: the tax code presumes economic unity between spouses, and that unity doesn't always exist. 
 The joint liability rule is often justified as the flip side of a significant benefit that results from joint filing. The current married-filing-jointly rate schedule creates a sizable ''marriage bonus'' for one-earner and unequal-earner couples. (Though the ''marriage penalty'' is better known than the marriage bonus, it affects fewer taxpayers.) 
 The bonus results from the fact that joint filing approximates income splitting--that is, it essentially shifts some of the higher earning spouse's income into the lower earning spouse's tax bracket, thereby reducing the couple's overall tax liability.
 The theory behind treating spouses as if they each earned half of the couple's combined income is that marriage is presumed to indicate economic unity between two people. It does not. 
 In 41 states, a married breadwinner is the sole owner of his or her income; a wage earner is obligated to provide only minimal support to his or her spouse. Although spouses in the nine other states are automatically equal owners of any income earned by either spouse, this requirement can often be circumvented through prenuptial or other agreements. 
 Because marriage is a lousy proxy for economic unity, joint filing--with its income-splitting benefits and joint-liability burdens--shouldn't be available to couples who lead independent financial lives. Rather, only couples who are prepared to marry their wallets as well as their hearts by signing an income-sharing agreement should be permitted to file as one. 
 Basing joint filing on economic unity would exclude economically separate spouses from a benefit they don't deserve and ensure that before low- or non-earner spouses can be liable for taxes, they will at least own the income that generates the liability. 
 Finally, once we recognize that no necessary connection exists between marriage and economic unity, why not leave marriage out of taxes altogether? Making economic unity, rather than marriage, the requirement for joint filing would provide a rare opportunity for moderate conservatives and liberals to agree on a reasonable approach to the reality of same-sex households while staying clear of the quagmire of gay marriage. 
 Tax law should stop perpetuating the fairy tale that husbands and wives are equal partners. Such partnership between spouses, while common, is essentially optional, and plenty of unmarried couples share everything they earn. A tax system that strives to treat all citizens fairly should reflect this reality. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); MARRIAGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%) Taxation; Marriages; Taxation

PERSON: Shari Motro

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006



309 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS DIGEST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 755 words

 BODY:

Yield on 10-Year Treasury Note Tops 5%, Signaling Increases for Consumer Debt Costs
The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note, which serves as a touchstone for lending rates, rose above 5 percent for the first time in nearly four years, signaling that many borrowers will soon be paying more on mortgages and home equity loans. [Page A1.] 


Skilling Maintains Innocence Despite Mistakes at Enron
Jeffrey K. Skilling admitted in testimony at the Enron fraud trial that he made mistakes, but continued to profess his innocence and blasted the government for charging him with conspiring to defraud Enron investors. [C1.]

Repeat of an Auto Bailout Unlikely This Time
Just over 25 years ago, Chrysler teetered on the brink of bankruptcy, hobbled by falling sales, heavy payroll costs and bloated debt, and the federal government helped with a bailout. Today General Motors and Ford are in similar positions. But a replay of the federal help is unlikely. [C1.]

The Ford Motor Company said it planned to shut its truck plants in St. Paul, Minn., and Norfolk, Va., the latest closings as part of its restructuring program called the Way Forward. Both plants, which are among the oldest at Ford, will shut in 2008, the automaker said. Both opened in 1925 and together employ about 4,300 hourly and salaried workers. [C4.]

Pension Accounting Plan Will Cut Corporate Worth
A proposal by the Financial Accounting Standards Board to revise the way corporations account for pension obligations would wipe away 8 percent of the nation's corporate wealth, reflecting how poorly current accounting rules reflect a pension fund's need for cash versus a company's ability to provide it, according to a study by an actuarial firm. [C1.]

A Chip Maker Turns His Focus to the Sun
T.J. Rodgers, who founded Cypress Semiconductor to make high-speed computer memories and the newer specialized chips that go into iPods and high-end Mercedes Benzes, is working on a new kind of chip these days, the kind that soak up the sun's rays to produce electricity. [C1.]

Bausch & Lomb to Stop Sales of Suspect Solution
After reports of illness and under pressure from major retailers, Bausch & Lomb said it had asked retailers across the nation to temporarily remove its ReNu With MoistureLoc contact lens solution from store shelves. [C3.]

TiVo Wins $73 Million in a Patent Lawsuit
A federal jury awarded TiVo more than $73 million in damages in a patent infringement lawsuit against EchoStar Communications. [C3.]

Retail Sales Better Than Expected in March
Retail sales increased 0.6 percent in March, rebounding from a decline of 0.8 percent in February, the Commerce Department said. [C3.]

Fidelity Closing Two More Popular Mutual Funds
Fidelity Investments said it was closing two large, popular mutual funds to new investors, two weeks after closing its biggest fund, the $65 billion Contrafund. Some analysts interpreted the closings as pre-emptive steps to prevent sagging returns that can result when a fund gets too big. [C5.]

Michael Jackson Overhauls His Finances
The pop star Michael Jackson, who has been burdened with hundreds of millions of dollars of debt, said he had revamped his finances, an arrangement that would probably force him to sell part of his stake in a song catalog that includes hits by the Beatles. [C2.]

General Electric Posts 9% Increase in Profit
General Electric said its earnings increased 9 percent in the first quarter and that revenue rose 10 percent as the company benefited from stronger sales of aircraft engines and health equipment. Jeffrey K. Immelt, G.E.'s chief executive, said the company expected a strong year -- orders are up 33 percent overall and 67 percent for equipment. G.E. said it should also be able to sell the last of its slower-growing insurance businesses, GE Life, in the next 12 months. [C3.]

Anticipation of Technology Profit Lifts Stocks
Stocks rose as anticipation of better-than-expected earnings from technology companies tempered concern about higher interest rates and oil prices. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 7.68 points, to 11,137.65; the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 1 point, to 1,289.12; The Nasdaq composite index advanced 11.43 points, to 2,326.11. [C7.]

U.S. Seeks Measures Against a Tax Dodge Promoter
The Justice Department is seeking a court order to block a Michigan couple from promoting what the government says is the No. 1 tax scheme in the country and to force them to return more than $20,000 in tax refunds. The government also sued seven people it said used the couple's advice. [C3.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows Ford Motor Co.'s share prices since March, 2006.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); DEBT NOTES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); DAMAGES (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); PENSION FUNDS (79%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); JURY TRIALS (76%); VERDICTS (76%); ELECTRONICS (75%); CONSPIRACY (75%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (72%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (71%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (71%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (70%); COMPUTER CHIPS (68%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (63%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (61%); OPHTHALMIC PHARMACEUTICALS (60%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (60%); PATENTS (60%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (93%); FMR CORP (61%); DISH NETWORK CORP (61%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (54%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); DISH (NASDAQ) (61%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (61%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (61%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (61%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (61%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (61%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (61%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: T J RODGERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006



310 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2006
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: The Oceans Resurface

 BODY:
Despite extensive studies demonstrating the poor health of America's coastal waters as well as its major fisheries and offering blueprints for recovery, Congress has done nothing. Now, at last, the matter is getting some traction. This is good news. But the important thing is to get it right. 
 At issue is the reauthorization of the Magnuson-Stevens fishery conservation act, the basic law governing federal fisheries policy. The act does not address many issues that need attention. But strengthening it would help fish populations in American coastal waters, which extend 200 miles off shore, and that is no small thing. Many of those populations for which there is reliable data -- among them Alaskan pollock, Pacific rockfish, redfish in the Gulf of Mexico -- are struggling. Some, like North Atlantic codfish, have essentially crashed.
 A Senate committee has reported its version of the bill. It retains all of the good elements of the act, which requires the country's eight regional policy-making councils to identify declining fish stocks and create plans to rebuild them. But it largely ignores two excellent ideas for improving it that were advanced by the privately financed Pew Oceans Commission and the Congressionally chartered United States Commission on Ocean Policy.
 One was to give scientists much greater influence in the regional councils, which are now dominated by industry representatives whose short-term interest lies in catching more fish than is healthy for the species' long-term survival. The other was to require the councils to set annual, enforceable catch limits. Partly because of opposition from Northeastern senators politically beholden to local fishing interests, the committee abandoned the idea of hard targets and gave the scientists no more than an advisory role.
 Two bills have just been introduced in the House Resources Committee, one by the chairman, Richard Pombo. His bill is weaker than the Senate's, especially on the matter of rebuilding fish populations, and also includes some mischievous provisions that would diminish public participation in the decision-making process. A better bill has been introduced by Wayne Gilchrest, a Republican from Maryland, and it will be up to Mr. Gilchrest and like-minded members to make sure that the House has a worthy bill on the table when it comes time to negotiate with the Senate.
 Ultimately, though, the biggest responsibility rests with Ted Stevens, the powerful Republican senator from Alaska whose name is on the original legislation and who may be serving his last term. Though we have had our differences with Mr. Stevens on other environmental issues, he has been a champion of fish conservation, not least because the economy of his state depends so heavily on it. A good bill would be a worthy epitaph to his long career.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISHERIES (92%); FISHES (91%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (90%); SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); FISHING LAW (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); OCEANS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: TED STEVENS (77%); WAYNE T GILCHREST (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2006



311 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1792 words

HEADLINE: If Detroit Calls, U.S. May Not Replay the Bailout Role 

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
Gasoline prices are rising. Sales of Detroit's carmakers suffer as Japanese brands carve out a growing share of the American market. One of the nation's largest automobile manufacturers flirts with bankruptcy. 
 Sound familiar?
Just over a quarter of a century ago, the Chrysler Corporation teetered on the brink of bankruptcy, hobbled by falling sales, heavy payroll costs and bloated debt. 
 Today General Motors and Ford, staggering under the costs of providing health benefits for workers and retirees and with few cars that excite consumers, are still struggling to compete against their Japanese (and Korean) rivals. And now it is G.M. that is skirting the edge of financial disaster. 
 But don't expect a rerun of Detroit's earlier drama. In the late 1970's, car companies were considered too big and too important to fail. Washington not only put up trade barriers to Japanese cars and trucks, it also agreed to bail out Chrysler with government-backed loans aimed at preserving the company and its jobs. 
 By contrast, the government today shows no signs of hurrying to the auto industry's rescue. The reasons are telling. American car companies and the United Automobile Workers have lost much of their political influence as their share of the nation's output and employment has shrunk. The industry's composition has changed too.
 Back then, the Big Three, which had their headquarters in Detroit, were the national auto industry. Today the industry includes the American manufacturing plants of Japanese and Korean companies, which are doing just fine at providing popular vehicles and have created tens of thousands of good jobs for Americans.
 And it is less obvious what Washington could do to help. 
 ''In the current climate, the government would be very reluctant to step in and protect one company in a much larger industry,'' said Stewart J. Schwab, an expert in labor law and dean of Cornell Law School. ''They would have to wonder whether they are just helping the inefficient; that's not a good long-term strategy.''
 As Chrysler was tottering in 1979, President Jimmy Carter and the Democratic-controlled Congress cobbled together a rescue plan that included $1.5 billion in federal loan guarantees and a package of concessions worth several billion dollars more from others interested in Chrysler's survival, including its union, its bankers and its dealers. 
 The Carter administration also made a 25 percent tariff on imports of Japanese light trucks unavoidable -- building a protective wall around what were to become Detroit's hottest products: sport utility vehicles and minivans.
 The effort was bipartisan and it continued into the 1980's. One of the first things the Reagan administration did upon taking office in 1981 was to press Japan to agree to so-called voluntary export restraints by its carmakers.
 Today, the automakers' troubles are arguably on an even greater scale. General Motors lost more than $10 billion last year as the high cost of gasoline made consumers shun its large S.U.V.'s., further eroding its market share. This only added to G.M.'s structural problems, associated with the cost of providing pensions and health care to its army of retired workers. 
 G.M. said last year that it would cut 30,000 jobs and close all or parts of 12 plants by 2008. Last month, it offered a buyout program to all 113,000 unionized workers. The company's debt has been downgraded to junk bond status. Ford is facing similar troubles. Delphi, the nation's largest auto parts maker, is in bankruptcy and wants to shed about two-thirds of its work force in the United States.
 Yet despite the long list of woes, neither the White House nor Congress is rushing to the rescue. 
 ''We might be coming to a crisis faster than we thought,'' said Senator Richard G. Lugar, Republican of Indiana, who with Paul E. Tsongas, then a Democratic senator from Massachusetts, hammered out the Senate version of the bill that led to Chrysler's rescue. ''It's not that people are dismissive but they just haven't given it that much thought.''
 At a news conference in 1980, Mr. Carter justified the government's involvement in the Chrysler bailout as necessary ''to avoid the loss of hundreds of thousands of American jobs among automobile workers and to keep a highly competitive automobile industry in our country.'' 
 In January, President Bush suggested that carmakers solve their own problems by making cars that are ''relevant.'' Referring to President Carter's decision to help Chrysler, he noted, ''I would hope I wouldn't be asked to make that decision.''
 Washington's change of tune is, perhaps, understandable: in the 1970's, not only was the economy sliding into a recession, the United States still understood itself as a strong manufacturing nation -- and cars represented one of its most important industries. 
 ''It's a much smaller part of the U.S. economy than it was then,'' said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist of ITG/Hoenig, who as an economist on the staff of Senator Tsongas helped devise the Chrysler bailout in 1979. ''Today 9 out of 10 jobs in the United States are not in manufacturing.''
 The share of gross domestic product from motor vehicle output is down by about a third since the late 1970's, to 3.2 percent. In 1978, makers of cars and auto parts employed 1.4 percent of all private sector workers; the figure today is less than 1 percent. 
 Even in Michigan, the automotive sector's share of employment has fallen by about half, to some 6 percent of all nonfarm jobs.
 Members of Congress who voted for the Chrysler bill ''worried that thousands of people would lose their jobs needlessly,'' said James J. Blanchard, a former Michigan governor who led negotiations for the Chrysler bill as a House representative from the state. ''The cost in welfare and pension guarantees would be astronomical. It would have been a serious blow to a precarious national economy.'' 
 Today, General Motors is insistent that it does not want a direct government bailout. ''One thing we haven't done is go to the federal government and enlist their aid in respect to our current situation,'' said Christopher Preuss, a G.M. spokesman. 
 Yet Detroit is certainly interested in other forms of help from Washington. The Big Three, with their older, heavily unionized work forces, are competing against imports and transplants built without the burden of ''legacy costs'' accumulated through decades of increasingly elaborate contracts. They would love a hand from the government to remove the health care expenses of retirees from their books.
 Moreover, they complain bitterly that Japan keeps the value of the yen artificially low, lowering the cost of Japanese carmakers' imports of cars and parts from Japan.
 But these days Detroit no longer has a near monopoly on domestic production. Having started building plants in the United States in the early 1980's, foreign carmakers like Toyota and Honda now account for over a quarter of the output of vehicles built for consumers. They employ about a fifth of workers engaged in making cars and trucks. Many more Americans are involved in designing, marketing and repairing foreign brands. 
 And the cars are selling well: the United States market share of brands from Asia jumped to 37 percent last year from 35 percent in 2004, according to Thomas W. LaSorda, chief executive of the Chrysler Group of DaimlerChrysler. 
 Other factors are also staying the government's hand. More than a quarter of a century since the Chrysler bailout, there is a much firmer belief in the ability of market forces to deal with the problems facing the big car companies.
 Indeed, Chrysler is today much healthier than General Motors and Ford, in part because it was bought by Daimler-Benz of Germany, creating DaimlerChrysler. And bankruptcy, which would allow G.M. to rewrite union contracts, is not necessarily regarded as a death sentence.
 Even if Washington were willing to step up to bat for Detroit, it is not clear that it has the necessary firepower. The total Chrysler rescue package of 1979 was worth less than $5 billion -- somewhat less than $15 billion in today's money -- and the government ended up guaranteeing only $1.2 billion worth of loans. 
 At the end of last year, General Motors estimated that its overall unfunded liabilities to cover retiree health care and life insurance amounted to $62 billion. Ford's added up to about $33 billion.
 More far-reaching legislation -- to create a national health care system, for example -- might pull the car companies out of their hole. But nobody is counting on that kind of help.
 ''While spiraling health care costs are a monumental issue for the entire economy,'' Mr. Preuss of G.M. said, ''we're not counting on any immediate legislative relief that would change the current situation.''
 In some areas, the politics are going against Detroit's interests. California and a number of other states, mostly in the Northeast (where foreign cars are often more popular than domestic vehicles), are pressing the industry for drastic reductions in the level of greenhouse gases coming out of car and truck tailpipes.
 To reverse the industry's decline, even Detroit's most ardent supporters in Congress have come up with only modest ideas. 
 Representative John D. Dingell, a Democrat from Michigan, introduced a bill in the House last year that would force the administration to seek redress at the World Trade Organization over currency manipulation by Japan and other countries. It has little chance in Congress. 
 Bills have been introduced in the House and Senate to give tax breaks for car companies' investments in alternative fuel technologies and other energy-saving initiatives. Their prospects are somewhat brighter.
 The Bush administration has also tried to help via regulation. The new fuel efficiency rules issued last month, which set relatively modest targets for large sport utility vehicles, were seen as a victory for the Big Three, which have the heaviest S.U.V. fleets.
 ''There's no grand solution,'' said Dennis Fitzgibbons, director for public policy at DaimlerChrysler in Washington. ''But there are a number of smaller things that could be done.''
 It is still possible, of course, that Washington might be moved to respond. In 1980, Chrysler was only weeks from filing for bankruptcy by the time the government acted. If G.M. were to be pulled even further into trouble by a strike at Delphi, its biggest supplier, that shut G.M.'s own assembly lines and if it were truly tottering on the brink, the urge to keep it from tipping over might prove too great to resist. 
 ''This type of event could really galvanize people,'' Mr. Fitzgibbons said. ''But do I know which way they would go? No.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Lee Iacocca of Chrysler, James Blanchard, Senator Donald Riegle and President Jimmy Carter at the 1980 signing of the bailout bill. (Photo by Teresa Zabela/The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 General Motors headquarters in Detroit. G.M., which lost more than $10 billion last year, faces serious problems with retiree benefit costs. (Photo by Bill Pugliano/Getty Images)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); MARKET SHARE (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (79%); GASOLINE PRICES (79%); OIL & GAS PRICES (79%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (74%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (73%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (65%); LAW SCHOOLS (62%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (60%) Automobiles; Labor; Organized Labor; International Trade and World Market; Automobiles

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: United Automobile Workers; General Motors Corp; Ford Motor Co; Daimlerchrysler Ag

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (89%) Eduardo Porter; Jimmy Carter

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%) Japan; South Korea

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006



312 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Decade After Helping Yankees, Boy in the Stands Is a Hit Again

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE; Tyler Kepner and Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: MIDDLETOWN, Conn., April 12 

 BODY:
The pitch was a fastball on the outside part of the plate, exactly what Jeffrey Maier was looking for on Wednesday afternoon as Wesleyan University took on Bates College in a relaxed baseball setting that bore no resemblance to Yankee Stadium.
 Maier took a left-handed swing and drove the ball into the outfield for a run-scoring double. His Wesleyan teammates cheered, and so did several dozen fans, including his parents and sister. As the umpire tossed the souvenir ball to the bench, Maier stood on second base and tried to keep the smile off his bearded face. For the second time in his life, Maier had made baseball history. 
Does the name sound familiar? It might. Ten years ago, when the Yankees met the Baltimore Orioles in the first game of the American League Championship Series, Maier was the 12-year-old boy who reached over the right-field wall for Derek Jeter's fly ball in the Bronx.
 Maier deflected it into the seats for what was ruled a game-tying, eighth-inning home run, a controversial and memorable moment that helped propel the Yankees to the first of four World Series championships in a five-year span.
 Now, Maier is a 5-foot-11, 190-pound, 22-year-old Wesleyan senior who plays at third base and in the outfield. His double was his 169th career hit, a Wesleyan record. He hit another double later in the game and has 170 hits going into Friday's game at Hamilton. He has his eye on professional baseball, although his chances of reaching the major leagues as a player are slim. But he also aspires to be a general manager for a major league team, perhaps a more realistic possibility in a business that is increasingly turning toward youth in the front office. 
 Whatever he does, his 1996 fling with fame will tag along with him.
 ''Certainly it's something that happened that I have no regrets about,'' Maier said. ''It happened. I'm not going to run away from it. It's a lot easier to just kind of laugh about it and talk about it. It's sort of given me the opportunity to show my sense of humor and move past what happened then. It's almost been 10 years. It's pretty crazy. It's flown by.''
 Maier's grade-point average is 3.4; his batting average is .404. He wrote an independent study project in college about the migration of baseball franchises in the 1950's. He is majoring in government with a minor in economics.
 He appeared in a student film about himself and an Orioles fan called, ''I Hate Jeffrey Maier.'' He has read the book ''Moneyball'' about new ways that modern baseball executives are evaluating talent and payroll. He has interviewed for a job on Wall Street. Derek Jeter is still his favorite baseball player, just as Maier, in a certain way, is one of Jeter's favorite fans.
 ''I will never forget what he did,'' Jeter said at Yankee Stadium this week. ''It's good that he is doing something now on his own and he has his own memories.''
 For years, Maier avoided interviews about the incident, but he was a national story after it occurred. He was from Old Tappan, N.J., and the ticket to the game had been a present at his bar mitzvah, held a week earlier with a World Series theme.
 ''I didn't mean to do anything bad,'' Maier explained at the time. ''I'm just a 12-year-old kid trying to catch a ball.'' But other fans were not so understanding. In a game at Williams College in Massachusetts in his sophomore year, he played center field. Fans threw snow and ice.
 They were Red Sox fans and, to them, Maier represented Yankee success. If Maier had not interfered with Jeter's fly ball, it might have been caught by Orioles right-fielder Tony Tarasco, and it certainly would have stayed in play. So the Williams fans pelted him. 
 ''It got a little bit dangerous; it kind of crossed the line,'' Maier said. ''I ran in. They stopped the game to remove the, quote-unquote, unruly fans. They knew who I was. That's sort of why they were doing it.''
 The student film was light-hearted. It was a fictional story of a Wesleyan student who spends four years trying to track down Maier. ''It gave me an opportunity to test my skills in front of the camera,'' Maier said. ''I don't think I have much of a future there.''
 Perhaps not, but a few cameras filmed him setting the record on Wednesday. While he was interviewed after the game in front of one of them, a teammate, Eric Wdowiak, surprised Maier with a shaving-cream pie in the face. It covered the neatly trimmed beard that Maier said is his first. Maier said he is on a hitting streak and too superstitious to shave it, even for job interviews. 
 He would rather play pro ball, and his coach, Mark Woodworth, said, ''There's no doubt in my mind that he can play professional baseball at some level.'' Woodworth said two scouts have been ''floating around'' Maier but refused to be specific about their identity.
 However, a National League scout who covers New England said Maier was not highly rated. ''I don't think he's on anybody's radar,'' said the scout, who was granted anonymity because scouting evaluations are confidential in a competitive profession. ''I could be wrong.''
 The scout said it was difficult for Division III players to advance. Richard Adelstein, the economics professor who supervised Maier's 45-page research paper, is a baseball fan who said Maier's size and leg injuries in college work against his playing ambitions.
 ''I think he has a better chance to be an executive than he does a player,'' said Adelstein, who gave Maier an A on the paper.
 A few months after he tried to catch Jeter's ball, Maier met Jeter at a card-signing but said he was too tongue-tied to talk.
 ''I wish I could go back in time and think of some words to say to him,'' Maier said. Perhaps their paths will cross again, down the line.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jeffrey Maier turned Derek Jeter's fly ball into a home run in 1996. (Photo by Mark Lennihan/Associated Press)(pg. A1)
 Jeffrey Maier had two doubles against Bates on Wednesday to reach 170 hits, a Wesleyan record. He hopes to have a career in baseball. (Photo by Suzy Allman for The New York Times)(pg. D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); ATHLETES (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); GRADES & GRADING (76%); INDEPENDENT STUDY (73%) Baseball; World Series; Baseball

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (56%) Wesleyan University; New York Yankees

PERSON: DEREK JETER (88%) Joe Lapointe; Jeffrey Maier; Derek Jeter

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006



313 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Rebounded in March, Rising 0.6% 

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 13 

 BODY:
Retail sales increased a better-than-expected 0.6 percent in March, the Commerce Department reported Thursday. The gain came after shoppers took a breather in February and sales fell 0.8 percent, according to revised figures. 
 In March, sales rose at auto dealers, furniture stores, building and garden centers, sporting goods, books and music stores, and health and beauty shops, among others. That offset weakness at electronics and appliances stores and a dip in sales at gasoline stations. Sales were flat at clothing stores and grocery stores.
The University of Michigan said Thursday that its April report on consumer sentiment rose to 89.2, from 88.9 in March. Economists had expected to see the index reach 89.0 for April.
 Economists closely watch consumers' behavior because their spending accounts for roughly two-thirds of all economic activity.
 ''The big picture for the consumer still looks good,'' said Stephen Stanley, chief economist at RBS Greenwich Capital. ''The ongoing spike in gasoline prices will probably curtail demand for other goods for a month or two at some point in the spring, but there is still not much evidence that the consumer is on the cusp of slowing down in any meaningful way.''
 Excluding sales of automobiles, which can swing widely from month to month, sales by all other merchants rose by a solid 0.4 percent in March. That was an improvement over the 0.3 percent decline for this category in February.
 And, removing high-priced gasoline from March's results, sales at all other retailers went up 0.7 percent.
 With rising energy prices still a concern, the Federal Reserve is expected to increase interest rates again at its next meeting in May to fend off inflation. The Fed has been pushing up rates since June 2004. Its last rate increase, on March 28, left a crucial interest rate at a five-year high.
 The Labor Department reported Thursday that new filings for unemployment benefits rose by 12,000 last week, to 313,000. Although the increase was more than economists were expecting, claims were still at a level pointing to a good jobs climate.
 And in another report, the Commerce Department said that stockpiles of unsold goods were flat in February, suggesting that businesses were trying to keep inventories fairly lean. Economists had been expecting inventories to rise. 
 The resurgence of buying in March came even as consumers had to cope with higher interest rates, rising gasoline prices and a cooling housing market. An improving jobs market helped to blunt those potentially negative forces.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Shawn Hayes, a Toyota salesman in El Cajon, Calif., shows off a Corolla. Sales rose at car dealers last month. (Photo by Jack Smith/Bloomberg News)Chart: ''Jobless Claims''Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time.Graph shows the 4-week moving average.(Source by Labor Department
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Chart: ''Retail Sales''Total retail and food services sales, seasonally adjusted.March: +0.6%Feb.: -0.8Jan.: +1.4(Source by Commerce Department)Chart: ''Inventory-Sales Ratio''Total month-end business inventories divided by total monthly business sales, seasonally adjusted.Business Inventories and SalesBillions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.InventoriesJAN.: $1,313.68FEB .: $1,313.56SalesJAN.: 1,047.81FEB.: 1,041.16Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (93%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); INTEREST RATES (86%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (85%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); GAS STATIONS (76%); NURSERY & GARDEN STORES (74%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (74%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (74%); FURNITURE STORES (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); COSMETICS & BEAUTY SUPPLY STORES (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); MUSIC STORES (72%); NEW CAR DEALERS (72%); BOOKSTORES (72%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (56%) Retail Stores and Trade; Sales; Inventories (Economic Indicator); United States Economy; Labor; Unemployment Insurance; Consumer Behavior; Retail Stores and Trade

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (83%) Commerce Department; University of Michigan; Labor Department (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006



314 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; STREET SCENE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Tapping Into the Hispanic Market 

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
At many American private equity firms, a Mexican food deal means sending the junior analyst out to buy tacos. At Palladium Equity Partners, it means buying Taco Bueno, the fast-food restaurant chain itself.
 Palladium is part of a new breed of private equity firms on the lookout for investments that can tap into the fast-growing Spanish-speaking market in the United States. As the New York area's second-largest minority-owned business behind Goya Foods, the buyout firm is taking advantage of its partners' Latin American heritage and community ties to spot deals that other Wall Street investors may not see.
It is a logical, yet largely untested strategy. But at a time when a flood of private equity money is making strong returns harder to find, Palladium seems to believe that the combination of its hand-on management guidance and the explosive growth in the Hispanic market will make its new $520 million fund pay off. 
 ''Fifty years ago, it was taking companies from Main Street to Wall Street,'' said Marcos A. Rodriguez, Palladium's managing partner. ''Today, it is taking them from El Barrio to Wall Street and accessing the same types of capital and professionalism that you need to make the company a success.''
 ''What we do is provide a bridge,'' he added. ''We understand the communities where these businesses are born. We understand the demands that are creating that opportunity. And on Wall Street, we understand how to access the capital markets.'' 
 Still, it is a niche and one that other investment groups are looking at. Nogales Investors, Rustic Canyon/Fontis Partners and Linea Capital are among the other firms focused on companies owned by or aimed at Latinos. And bigger buyout firms, like the Carlyle Group, also have those businesses in their sights. 
 In the last two years, ''we have seen a pretty dramatic increase in the number of funds looking to target the U.S. Hispanic market,'' said Leon Shahinian, a senior officer for alternative investments at the California pension fund, Calpers, which has put money into the Palladium fund. (Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria of Spain and New York City and New York State pension funds are also investors.) Still, he said, even companies with established track records, including Palladium, do not necessarily have a long history in that market.
 But as the Hispanic population has grown, many of the businesses that serve that market are now needing more capital to take the next step. Some Latino entrepreneurs, meanwhile, do not have sons or daughters interested in taking over their companies. And Latino interests and influences are increasingly mainstream, shaping the nation's overall consumption trends.
 ''My favorite statistic is that every other new American is Hispanic,'' said Mr. Rodriguez, 44, who was born in Cuba and grew up in New York City. 
 Hispanic purchasing power is projected to grow to $1 trillion in 2010 from $700 billion in 2004, according to HispanTelligence, a market research firm. And with an underlying growth of 7 percent to 11 percent, he added, the market is expanding at a pace three to five times as fast as the growth of total United States disposal income. 
 Mr. Rodriguez likens investing in the Hispanic market in the United States to investing in an emerging economy like Argentina or Mexico, but without the currency or political risk.
 Of course, Palladium, which is based in Manhattan and has more than $750 million under management, is still in the earliest stages of investing in this market. Taco Bueno, with $140 million in sales last year, is the first acquisition it has made. While its three funds have produced returns over 30 percent, it has never concentrated solely on Hispanic businesses. Indeed, even in its latest fund it is not restricted from investing in attractive companies that do not fit that theme.
 Still, Mr. Rodriguez noted that investors find deals where they look for them. With three of the four partners born in Spanish-speaking countries and about half the firm's 25 employees of Hispanic descent, he says their cultural affinity and language skills often give them a competitive edge.
 Unlike many traditional private equity firms, Palladium is organized in industry groups, like food, media, and business services. Within those sectors, Palladium's analysts in New York scan the Hispanic marketplace for potential targets with the help of about 14 local deal-spotters in major Spanish-speaking areas across the United States. 
 ''If you are going to launch a European fund, you are probably going to hire a few Europeans,'' Mr. Rodriguez said. ''If you are looking at the U.S. Hispanic market, having people who are from the community and who know other folks in the community'' helps you avoid bidding up prices in auctions.
 That is what happened with Taco Bueno, a Dallas-based chain of 143 Mexican restaurants that are slightly more upscale than Taco Bell. 
 ''Looking at the influence of Mexican food, we had determined that the Mexican restaurant space had been growing faster than hamburgers, pizza or other types of fast food,'' Mr. Rodriguez said. ''We had looked at who are the attractive chains, and who was out there with the critical mass that is capturing this demographic trend.'' 
 Last summer, Palladium identified Taco Bueno as one of the top targets. And in short order, it was able to acquire the franchise from Jacobson Partners, another New York buyout firm, and install a new management team. 
 Today, the investment is seen as a success, especially as shares of Chipotle Mexican Grill have climbed 141 percent after McDonalds spun off the chain in an initial public offering this year. And Wendy's International said last month that it might sell its Baja Fresh restaurant chain, a move urged by the shareholder and billionaire financier Nelson Peltz. Could a Taco Bueno I.P.O. be next? Palladium's partners said they were excited by its results, but would not consider that option until a strategic review next month.


CORRECTION-DATE: April 15, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on the Street Scene page of Business Day yesterday about the private investment firm of Palladium Equity Partners reversed the identities of two men in the group of four. David Perez was second from the right and Peter Joseph at the far right.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Palladium Equity manages more than $750 million in buyout funds. Its partners, left to right, are Marcos Rodriguez, Alex Ventosa, Peter Joseph and David Perez. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINORITY BUSINESSES (92%); PRIVATE EQUITY (91%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); BONDS (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); SPOT MARKET (73%); TRENDS (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); CONSUMPTION (71%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (69%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (65%) Stocks and Bonds; Hispanic-Americans

COMPANY: CARLYLE GROUP LP (58%); PALLADIUM EQUITY PARTNERS LLC (58%); BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA SA (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Palladium Equity Partners Llc

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (58%); BVA (LSE) (52%); BBVA (NYSE) (52%); BBVA (MCE) (52%); BBVA (BMV) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%)

PERSON: Marcos A Rodriguez; Eric Dash

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006



315 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rise as Earnings Hopes Trump Commodity Prices

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks rose yesterday as anticipation of better-than-expected earnings from technology companies tempered concern about higher interest rates and rising prices for oil and other commodities.
 The Dow Jones industrial average gained 7.68 points, or less than 0.1 percent, to 11,137.65. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 1 point, also less than 0.1 percent, to 1,289.12. The Nasdaq composite index advanced 11.43 points, or 0.49 percent, to 2,326.11. And the Russell 2000 index of smaller-capitalization companies gained 3.34 points, or 0.45 percent, closing at 751.11.
On the New York Stock Exchange, 11 stocks declined for each 9 that rose. Some 1.24 billion shares changed hands, the slowest trading day this year, as some investors took off early for Passover and Easter. 
 Concern about higher interest rates and bond yields has pushed the S.& P. 500 down from an almost five-year high reached last week.
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose to 5.04 percent by late in the day yesterday, from 4.98 percent on Wednesday. It was the first time the yield had exceeded 5 percent since June 2002. The price of the 10-year note, which moves in the opposite direction from the yield, fell 16/32, to 95 26/32. 
 ''When interest rates go up,'' said Ned Riley, chief investment officer at Riley Asset Management, ''the stock market usually goes nowhere or goes down because of more competition from higher yields in bonds.''
 And remarks by a Federal Reserve governor, Donald L. Kohn, fueled new concern that the Fed would continue raising rates to restrain growth. ''A further spurt in energy and commodity prices,'' he said, could be passed through into core inflation to a greater extent'' than has occurred recently.
 Crude oil for May delivery increased 1 percent, to settle at $69.32 a barrel in New York, the highest since Sept. 1, on speculation that the impasse over Iran's nuclear program would escalate and threaten some supplies. 
 A gauge of real estate investment trusts fell 1.4 percent, the biggest decline among the S.& P. 500's 24 industry groups. A gauge of utilities lost 0.5 percent as the rise in bond yields made the group's dividend payouts less attractive.
 Boston Properties, a real estate firm founded by Mortimer B. Zuckerman, slid for a sixth day, down $1.01, to $85.99. Higher interest rates also spurred concern about a slowdown in the property market.
 An S.& P. gauge of 16 home builders slid for a sixth day, losing 0.9 percent amid the rising interest rates. Hovnanian Enterprises, a large New Jersey-based home builder, fell 94 cents, to $41.39.
 Among technology companies, I.B.M. added $1.23, to $81.98, after an analyst at Lehman Brothers said it would meet or exceed his earnings estimates. The company is to report quarterly results on Tuesday.
 The advance of I.B.M., a bellwether stock, helped push a gauge of technology shares up 0.4 percent. I.B.M. is among more than 20 technology companies expected to report next week. Intel, Google and Apple Computer will also release revenue and earnings figures.
 Advanced Micro Devices, which makes chips for personal computers, fell $3.62, or more than 10 percent, to $31.80, the worst performance in the S.&. P. 500, after it rose $1.07 on Wednesday. A.M.D. said sales this quarter would be ''flat to seasonally down'' from the $1.33 billion in the quarter just reported. Analysts had expected revenue of $1.35 billion, according to a Thomson Financial survey. 
 Intel, the leading computer chip maker, gained 33 cents, to close at $19.45. Some analysts say Intel is using price cuts to regain market share lost to from Advanced Micro.
 Applied Materials, the largest maker of semiconductor equipment, rose 69 cents, to $18.11. Purchase orders from Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing, the world's largest made-to-order chip supplier, are beginning to accelerate, according to Michael O'Brien of Bear, Stearns. 
 Heart device makers, including Boston Scientific, fell on the prospect of cuts in Medicare reimbursement for hospital procedures. Boston Scientific, the top maker of cardiac stents in the United States market, declined 61 cents, to $21.55. Medtronic, the biggest maker of electronic heart devices, lost $1.11, to $49.93.
 SanDisk, the largest maker of flash memory cards for electronics, rose $2.43, to $61.90. Standard & Poor's said SanDisk would replace Chiron in the S.& P. 500 after the markets close next Wednesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Tax-Exempt Yields'' shows average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly since January, 2006. (Source by The Bond Buyer)Graph: ''Freddie Mac Yields'' tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since January, 2006. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source by Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (88%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); DIVIDENDS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (69%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (68%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Government Bonds; Finances

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (50%)

TICKER: HOV (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (50%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006



316 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; SOCCER; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Economics Professor Seeks U.S. Soccer Model

BYLINE: By JOSHUA ROBINSON

 BODY:
Sunil Gulati discusses the future of soccer the same way he addresses his Principles of Economics class at Columbia University. 
 When he is asked about the viability of a professional women's league, Gulati, a 46-year-old economist and the newly elected president of the United States Soccer Federation, answers: ''There's no right to exist, so to speak, of any sports venture, or any business venture, for that matter. In the end, the market will decide.''
He offers the same kind of response when asked about the success of Major League Soccer. ''It comes down to two things: one is economics and the other is the quality of the league itself, which is obviously related to economics.'' 
 Gulati, who served six years as vice president of the United States federation, was elected president by the membership of U.S. Soccer, the sport's governing body. He sees his four-year term as a chance to pursue initiatives in international relations, diversity and media growth, all with an eye to playing host to major events. But for every change he tries to implement, he knows he will face the same problem. 
 ''There is no model,'' Gulati said. ''Not many countries have the sort of competition we have for entertainment dollars, the geography we have in the U.S., and the role of education. The solutions we've got to have in soccer must be very different than they are elsewhere.''
 Soccer is what has interested Gulati since age 7. Born in Allahabad, India, he was 5 when his family immigrated to Connecticut, a soccer hotbed at the time. He played, coached and refereed all the way through high school. 
 After graduation from Bucknell, Gulati went to work at the Olympic Development Program and, in 1985, he was asked to run a national camp. But the organization was a disaster and, when he met Warner Fricker, then the president of the federation, Gulati let him know as much. Fricker responded: ''Send me a note. But don't go sending me a 17-page letter.''
 Gulati did exactly that. His 17-page treatise on what was wrong with the federation led Fricker to tell him, ''Come and do something about it.'' 
 He joined the federation as a volunteer while working at the World Bank, where his job was essentially to save a nascent Moldova.
 By 1992, Alan Rothenberg, who was then the president of the federation, had lured Gulati away from the World Bank to join the federation full-time and increase his commitment to the 1994 World Cup project. 
 Once the tournament was over, Gulati's soccer involvement shifted to M.L.S. in New York. This gave him the opportunity to work as a full-time lecturer at Columbia. 
 A few years later, he was appointed president of Kraft Soccer Operations, which runs the New England Revolution. Gulati's experiences in M.L.S. taught him that the league would not be competing for players with its top European counterparts anytime soon. 
 ''Those leagues are second to none except to each other,'' he said. ''But that means 195 countries are below that level. You can have a pretty darn good league with a population of 300 million people and just some international players.'' 
 Though M.L.S. is not yet attractive enough for the best Italian or English players in their prime, Gulati pointed out, it is a magnet for good players from Latin America on their way to Europe. ''I think that's going to continue to be a pattern,'' he added.
 The other challenge M.L.S. faces is developing homegrown talent. Again, Gulati insisted that the United States needed a unique approach.
 ''We're not going to re-create the beaches of Copacabana and we're not going to create a ghetto somewhere else where kids are going to learn it in the street,'' he said. ''American society is different. The role of education is extraordinarily important in the United States.''
 Gulati continues to teach three courses at Columbia. Not surprisingly, college students with dreams of professional soccer attend his office hours with more than grades in mind. He recently tried to talk an engineering student out of leaving Columbia to join a youth soccer program that Gulati himself helped to create.
 ''It's very different than it is in England or Brazil, or in Italy where a gifted 17-year-old isn't thinking about the University of Rome, he's thinking about playing for A.C. Milan,'' Gulati said. ''If a kid is choosing between a place like Columbia, that's a different decision from somebody who doesn't have 1400 SATs and might be thinking about another alternative. Opportunity cost, as we would say in Principles of Economics.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: In the United States, Sunil Gulati says, ''The solutions we've got to have in soccer must be very different than they are elsewhere.'' (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (95%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); SPORTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (73%); OLYMPICS (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); IMMIGRATION (67%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); TOURNAMENTS (65%) Soccer

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%); WOMEN'S AFFAIRS (84%); UNITED STATES SOCCER FEDERATION (84%); VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES (56%) Columbia University; United States Soccer Federation

PERSON: Joshua Robinson; Sunil Gulati

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006



317 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 212 words

HEADLINE: Drowning in a Sea of College Debt

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Four years ago, I faced much the same decision that Alexandra Baldari and Thomas W. Dillon, who were featured in your article, now face, and despite a well-paying job, low interest rates and 20 years to pay off my loans, I still sometimes second-guess having taken on tens of thousands of dollars in educational debt in my parents' name and my own. 
It seems almost ludicrous to have begun my adult life with such a burden, but on the other hand, having been able to attend the top college on my list is one of the few things I may ever describe as invaluable.
 For any high school senior who has worked tirelessly, very likely since junior high, to get into a small, elite liberal arts school or an out-of-state gem, it's a heart-wrenching decision to have to give it all up no matter what the reason. 
 The more any parent or college can do to keep students from having to make this decision, the better.
 Burden or no burden, I know without a doubt that I got the education I most wanted, in the city I longed to live in, and with the mix of people I wanted to learn with. The sticker price was high, but I'd venture to say it was worth it.

T'sera Mingst-Belcher
Oakland, Calif., April 10, 2006

The writer is a member of the class of 2005, Columbia University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); TUITION FEES (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); INTEREST RATES (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%) Colleges and Universities; Tuition; Student Loans

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (53%)

PERSON: T'sera Mingst-Belcher

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006



318 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: In Polls, Illegal Immigrants Are Called Burden 

BYLINE: By MARJORIE CONNELLY

 BODY:
Americans see illegal immigrants as using more public services than they pay for and want the government to do a better job of controlling the borders, but they favor legal status for current illegal immigrants under specific conditions, according to national polls released this week.
 Those polled say President Bush is handling immigration matters poorly, and they are more likely to trust the Democrats to do a better job than the Republicans. 
About 6 in 10 Americans surveyed by CBS News described the problem of illegal immigration as very serious. Illegal immigration was characterized as ''out of control'' by 81 percent in a USA Today/Gallup poll. And three-quarters of those questioned in an ABC News/Washington Post poll said the United States was not doing enough to keep illegal immigrants from entering the country.
 But a Los Angeles Times/Bloomberg poll found 63 percent of the respondents supported an approach that combined tougher enforcement of immigration laws along with a program of temporary work visas for illegal immigrants, while 30 percent would rather see the focus on tougher enforcement alone. The public is divided on whether illegal immigrants should be allowed to apply for permits to stay and work. In the CBS News poll, 49 percent said illegal immigrants should be allowed to apply, and 43 percent opposed the idea. 
 But that poll found 74 percent in favor of giving legal status to those who have lived in the United States for at least five years, if they can speak English, pay a fine and any back taxes and have no criminal record. Twenty-three percent of those polled opposed that approach. The USA Today/Gallup poll found approval for various possible requirements for legal status, with 90 percent of those surveyed saying that illegal immigrants must be employed. More than 80 percent said the ability to speak English, pass a health screening and pay back taxes should be conditions. And smaller majorities favored limiting the program to those who have been here for at least five years, have paid a fine, and have relatives living legally in the United States. 
 The polls gave President Bush low marks for his management of immigration. For example, only 26 percent of the public, including 42 percent of Republicans and 20 percent of independents, approved of his handling of the immigration issue in the CBS News poll. Fifty-three percent of all respondents disapproved. 
 The Republican Party is seen as less able than the Democrats to manage the complex issue of immigration. In the ABC News/Washington Post poll, 50 percent said they trusted the Democrats to do a better job of handling immigration issues, and 38 percent said the Republicans would do a better job.
 Reservations about illegal immigrants appear to center on their use of public services, rather than worries about unemployment or national security. In the ABC News/Washington Post poll, a third of those surveyed said their biggest concern was illegal immigrants using ''more public services than they pay for in taxes.'' 
 Just over half of the public said the jobs that legal or illegal immigrants took were ones that Americans did not want. In the CBS News poll, 34 percent said illegal immigrants took jobs away from Americans; 29 percent said the same about legal immigrants.
 The ABC News/Washington Post poll was conducted April 6 to 9 with 1,027 adults, the CBS News poll April 6 to 9 with 899 adults, the Los Angeles Times/Bloomberg poll April 8 to 11 with 1,357 adults, and the USA Today/Gallup poll April 7 to 9 with 1,004 adults. The four telephone surveys each have a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Americans' Views of Immigration''Do you think the United States is or is not doing enough to keep illegal immigrants from coming into this country?ENOUGH: 21%NOT ENOUGH: 75NO ANSWER: 4Which would you prefer: an approach that only focuses on tougher enforcement of immigration laws, or an approach that includes both tougher enforcement of immigration laws and also creates a guest worker program that allows undocumented workers to work legally in the U.S. on temporary visas?-- Los Angeles Times/Bloomberg pollTOUGHER ENFORCEMENT: 30%TOUGHER ENFORCEMENT AND GUEST WORKER PROGRAM: 63NO ANSWER: 7Would you favor or oppose allowing illegal immigrants who have done the following to stay and work in the United States: paid a fine, been in the U.S. for at least five years, paid any back taxes they owe, can speak English, and have no criminal record?-- CBS News pollFAVOR: 74%OPPOSE: 23NO ANSWER: 3Which political party, the Democrats or the Republicans, do you trust to do a better job handling immigration issues?-- ABC News/Washington Post pollDEMOCRATS: 50%REPUBLICANS: 38BOTH: 1NEITHER: 7NO ANSWER: 4

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (97%); IMMIGRATION (96%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (94%); REFUGEES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (88%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (78%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (72%); APPROVALS (63%) Immigration and Refugees; Public Opinion; Law and Legislation; Election Issues; Illegal Immigrants; Immigration and Refugees

COMPANY: CBS CORP (84%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Cbs Inc; Abc News; Los Angeles Times; Washington Post 

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush; Marjorie Connelly; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006



319 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Federal Scrutiny of State Senator Shines Light on Connections in Trenton

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: TRENTON, April 11 

 BODY:
For years, State Senator Wayne R. Bryant's career has offered a vivid and unapologetic example of the often mercenary nature of New Jersey politics.
 He has collected paychecks from as many as four government entities at the same time, and his law firm does work for public agencies. His family members -- including his wife, son, sister-in-law and two brothers -- hold 10 public sector jobs.
While others have bemoaned the patronage and insider deals that have made Trenton politics notorious, Mr. Bryant said recently that he was offended when Gov. Jon S. Corzine urged lawmakers in his inauguration speech in January to end the use of public money for political purposes. 
 ''Was he elected to be the only one to decide what's political?'' Mr. Bryant said.
 Still, Mr. Bryant, 58, now faces scrutiny from federal investigators looking into financial irregularities at the state's scandal-plagued medical school, the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey. Mr. Bryant was paid an annual salary of $38,200 by the university for the past three years to act as a lobbyist at the same time that he was chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, which granted millions of dollars in state aid to the university, which is in Newark. He left the medical school position in February.
 Lawyers familiar with the case say federal investigators are examining whether Mr. Bryant was involved in a conflict of interest last spring when he used his position on the Budget Committee to steer a $2.7 million grant to the university's school of osteopathic medicine for debt payments. The lawyers were granted anonymity because they are not supposed to discuss current investigations. Details of the inquiry were first reported by The Star-Ledger.
 Republicans have been quick to denounce Mr. Bryant and called for him to step down as budget chairman until the investigation is finished. Mr. Bryant has brushed aside that suggestion, but has declined to respond to questions about the inquiries. Democrats have rushed to his defense, and even the governor said this week that he had complete confidence in Mr. Bryant's ethics and his ability to play a pivotal role in negotiations to solve the state's projected $4 billion budget deficit.
 Anthony Coley, a spokesman for Mr. Corzine, said: ''Accusations are not convictions. The governor has every confidence that Senator Bryant will continue to serve his constituents with the same candor and vigor for which he is known and respected.''
 The investigations are certainly not the first time Mr. Bryant has attracted scrutiny and harsh criticism.
 A graduate of Howard University and Rutgers Law School, Mr. Bryant was active in the civil rights movement before being elected a Camden County freeholder and then a state assemblyman in 1981. He is widely praised for his knowledge of the budget process, a skill that has helped his district in South Jersey gain financing for many social-service programs and redevelopment projects, like the Camden aquarium.
 He has also shown a penchant for taking unexpected political positions. He backed a welfare reform bill in the mid-1990's when it was unpopular with many residents of his economically troubled district. He pushed legislation that aided rent-to-own companies that are often criticized for preying upon the poor with their high interest rates. And last fall, he moved to block an attempt to enact stricter ethics regulations.
 Along the way, Mr. Bryant has also developed a reputation for helping himself, his businesses and his relatives profit from government business.
 When Democratic governors in New Jersey and Pennsylvania gained control of making appointments for the Delaware River Port Authority, in 2002, the agency hired his wife for a $135,000-a-year job and gave $85,000 in legal work to Mr. Bryant's firm. He wrote the legislation directing $175 million in financing to help redevelop Camden, and his law firm later won a $270,000 contract with the project. He pressed the state to deposit $5 million in Equity Bank, where he serves as a paid director.
 In 2003, he collected payments from at least four government entities: the State Senate, where he earned $49,000; the University of Medicine and Dentistry; the Gloucester County Board of Social Services, where he provided legal services; and Rutgers University, which paid him $30,000 to deliver six lectures. He has become such a symbol of patronage and pork barrel politics that the widely read Web site politicsnj.com for months had stories about his business and governmental dealings under the headline, ''Oink, Oink!''
 When pressed about his private interests, Mr. Bryant has defended his actions, saying he has no qualms about being paid for his work on government matters or encouraging qualified friends and relatives to get involved.
 ''I'm not going to shy away from something that I work for if I think it's to the public good,'' he told a New Jersey newspaper in 2003.
 He did not return telephone calls this week seeking comment.
 When the University of Medicine and Dentistry created a position for Mr. Bryant in 2003, the job description said his duties would be ''to improve communications, image, receptivity and relationships with local governments, community and civic organizations and local residents.'' Both he and the university dismissed suggestions that it might be a conflict of interest.
 Now, however, New Jersey Republicans say that the federal investigation involves such a serious matter that Mr. Bryant should recuse himself from the budget process until the matter is resolved.
 ''Taxpayers deserve to have confidence that every action is being taken to avoid tax increases and ferret out waste, fraud and abuse,'' Mr. Wilson said.
 But his many supporters brush aside those statements as political posturing and insist that Mr. Bryant has always played by the rules.
 ''He's very up front about everything he does; it's not as if everyone didn't know he had these jobs,'' said Assemblyman Joseph Cryan of Union, a Democrat. ''People shouldn't rush to judgment.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: State Senator Wayne R. Bryant, in his law office last month in Camden, N.J., has collected paychecks from as many as four government entities at the same time. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); ETHICS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (88%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); SCANDALS (73%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (72%); DENTISTRY (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); OSTEOPATHY (67%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (67%); GRANTS & GIFTS (66%); BUDGET FORECASTS (66%); CIVIL RIGHTS (50%) Ethics; Legislatures and Parliaments; Politics and Government; Colleges and Universities

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MEDICINE & DENTISTRY OF NEW JERSEY (69%)

ORGANIZATION: University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey

PERSON: JON CORZINE (58%) David Kocieniewski; Wayne (Sen) Bryant

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2006



320 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Broadcast Networks Challenge Indecency Ruling Related to Profanities on Television Programs
Four TV broadcast networks and their affiliates have filed court challenges to a March 15 Federal Communications Commission ruling that found several programs ''indecent'' because of language. ABC, NBC, CBS and Fox, along with their network affiliate associations and the Hearst-Argyle Television group of stations, filed notices of appeal in various federal courts, including those in Washington and New York. The appeals challenge the commission's finding that profane language was used on the CBS program ''The Early Show'' in 2004, incidents involving Cher and Nicole Richie on the ''Billboard Music Awards'' shows broadcast by Fox in 2002 and 2003, and various episodes of the ABC show ''NYPD Blue'' that were shown in 2003. CBS also asked the F.C.C. to reconsider a proposed record fine of $3.6 million against dozens of CBS stations and affiliates for a 2004 episode of ''Without a Trace'' as well as a proposed $550,000 fine for the Janet Jackson ''wardrobe malfunction'' during the Super Bowl in 2004. (AP) 


Australian Investment Bank Bids for Irish Phone Concern
Babcock & Brown, an Australian investment bank, proposed buying the Eircom Group, Ireland's biggest telephone company, for 2.36 billion euros ($2.86 billion) to expand in Ireland, which has the fastest-growing economy in the 12 nations that share the euro currency. Babcock & Brown, which is based in Sydney, offered 2.20 euros in cash for each share of Eircom, the Irish company said. The bid is 2.8 percent more than Eircom's closing price Thursday. Eircom, which is based in Dublin, controls 79 percent of Ireland's fixed-line phone market and offers access to the country's mobile phone market. Babcock & Brown has built up a 28.8 percent stake in Eircom since October and is the company's biggest shareholder. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

Jury Favors RealNetworks in Patent Suit
RealNetworks, owner of the Rhapsody online music service, said a federal jury in Massachusetts found that the company did not infringe patents held by Ethos Technologies. The jury invalidated 7 of the 10 patent claims brought by Ethos and said none of the 10 were infringed, RealNetworks said yesterday. Ethos, based in Arlington, Mass., sued RealNetworks in September 2000, seeking more than $200 million in damages, over patents related to how personal computers receive data from server computers, according to court documents. Ethos, a maker of technology that downloads software and other data from the Internet, did not respond to requests for comment. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

Henry Kravis to Give Up Board Seat at Primedia
The leveraged buyout specialist Henry R. Kravis will not seek re-election for his Primedia board seat, according to a regulatory filing yesterday. Mr. Kravis, left, cited his travel schedule as the reason for the decision, according to the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In February, Primedia, publisher of magazines like Motor Trend and Hot Rod as well as consumer guides for apartment hunters and car buyers, reported a fourth-quarter loss. The publisher is also considering a tax-free split into two separately traded companies. Under the plan, the two companies would split the consumer guides division, which publishes Apartment Guide, Auto Guide and New Home Guide, and its enthusiast media and education segment, known for Motor Trend, Automobile and Hot Rod magazines. (REUTERS)

KBR, a Halliburton Unit, to Sell $550 Million in Stock
KBR, a unit of the Halliburton Company, filed an initial public offering yesterday to sell up to $550 million in common stock. KBR is a global engineering, construction and services company supporting the energy, petrochemicals, government services and civil infrastructure sectors. Halliburton, which is based in Houston, plans to sell just under 20 percent of its stake in KBR, which has diluted the company's financial results and drawn criticism for its multibillion-dollar contracts in Iraq. Analysts have said spinning off the unit will let Halliburton concentrate on its oil field business. Halliburton shares rose 5 percent when it announced plans for the offer in January. KBR did not say how many shares it would sell, nor did it give an expected price range. It disclosed the offer in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. (AP)

Brazilian Air Cargo Company Makes Acquisition
Varig Log, the largest air cargo company in Brazil, agreed to buy its former parent, Viacao Aerea Rio Grandense, known as Varig, for $400 million. The purchase agreement, reached Thursday, is subject to approval by the bankruptcy court overseeing efforts to reorganize Varig, as well as Varig's board, creditors, workers and regulators, Varig Log said. The price is 14 percent more than the $350 million Varig Log offered April 4. Employee-owned Varig, once the biggest airline in Latin America, has as much as 7 billion reais ($3.28 billion) in debt and said last month that it was running out of cash for operating expenses. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

Australian Port Operator Accepts Takeover Bid
The Patrick Corporation, an Australian port operator, has accepted a takeover bid valued at 5.81 billion Australian dollars ($4.23 billion) from a shipper, Toll Holdings, that will create one of the world's largest transport and logistics groups, company executives said yesterday. Toll's bid is 9 percent higher than its last offer in March and concludes an eight-month battle by the managing director, Paul Little, to acquire Patrick over the objections of Patrick's board. Patrick's directors agreed Thursday night that they would unanimously recommend the deal to shareholders, Patrick's managing director, Chris Corrigan, said at a joint news conference with Mr. Little. The bid, which includes cash and stock, values Patrick at 8.26 Australian dollars ($6.01) a share, above its closing share price Thursday of 8.03 Australian dollars ($5.85). (AP)

Redstone's 2005 Pay Was $14.5 Million
Sumner M. Redstone, the executive chairman of the CBS Corporation and Viacom, received total compensation valued at about $24.5 million for 2005. Mr. Redstone, who was chief executive of the former Viacom media conglomerate before it split into two companies at the beginning of the year, also realized $28.9 million from the exercise of stock options last year, according to the companies' annual proxies filed yesterday with the Securities and Exchange Commission. CBS said its president and chief executive, Leslie Moonves, received total compensation valued at $22.8 million for last year, including a $5.31 million salary and a $13 million bonus, among other items. (AP)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of Halliburton shares since March.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (92%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); PATENT LAW (89%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (89%); PATENTS (87%); EURO (86%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); DAMAGES (76%); INTERNET AUDIO (74%); MUSIC (74%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (74%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (73%); NETWORK SERVERS (73%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (66%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (66%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (65%); CURRENCIES (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (65%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (60%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EIRCOM LTD (90%); BABCOCK & BROWN LTD (83%); HEARST TELEVISION INC (72%); BLOOMBERG LP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (90%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (90%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (72%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (72%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: HENRY KRAVIS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (77%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2006



321 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Delta and Pilots Reach Agreement on Pay 

BYLINE: By JEFF BAILEY; Vikas Bajaj contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Delta Air Lines and the union representing its 6,000 pilots reached a tentative agreement on pay concessions yesterday, averting a threatened strike that could have driven the carrier, which is already operating in bankruptcy, out of business.
 Neither the company nor the pilots' union would disclose terms of the agreement. Delta had last asked for $305 million in annual pay cuts and the union had offered $140 million. The pilots made $1 billion in annual concessions in 2004. But rising fuel prices and increased competition deepened Delta's problems, sending it into Chapter 11 bankruptcy last September.
An arbitration panel had been scheduled to rule by today on Delta's motion in bankruptcy court to have the pilots' contract set aside and allow the airline to impose new wages and benefits. The pilots had vowed to walk off the job if the contract was voided. 
 Negotiations heated up earlier this week and intensified as the deadline approached, with the tentative agreement finally coming together yesterday morning.
 Earlier this week, the pilots' union received $10 million from its parent group to prepare for a strike starting on Monday.
 The agreement should help Delta reassure and win back travelers, some of whom have said they were avoiding the airline in anticipation of a strike.
 ''Delta passengers can continue to book on Delta with confidence,'' Edward H. Bastian, the chief financial officer of the airline, said in a statement. ''There has been no disruption to our service. Our pilots are performing professionally, flying as scheduled, and together with all Delta employees, are taking good care of our customers.''
 While a strike could have resulted in Delta's liquidation and dealt a severe blow to the economy of Atlanta, where the airline is based, and the Southeast region, where it dominates air traffic, the settlement could pose new problems for the industry.
 Northwest Airlines, in particular, has become concerned that Delta management would agree to terms less onerous to pilots than those Northwest reached with its pilots, potentially leading to an effort by Northwest pilots to reopen talks. Northwest is also in bankruptcy.
 ''A concessionary pilot contract that falls well short of what management had sought could cause friction between the pilots and other employees, and make it more difficult for Delta to attract financing to exit bankruptcy,'' said Philip Baggaley, an airline analyst at Standard & Poor's in New York. ''In addition, such an outcome would encourage other employee groups to join unions to improve their bargaining position in future contract talks.'' 
 Gerald Grinstein, chief executive of Delta, praised negotiators in a recorded message to employees yesterday for reaching ''an agreement that is good for Delta.'' The agreement is subject to ratification by pilots and approval of the bankruptcy court.
 ''If it all comes together, we are on track to emerge from bankruptcy next year,'' Mr. Grinstein said in the message. 
 The Air Line Pilots Association, which represents pilots at both carriers, and Delta both said they would not disclose terms of the agreement until pilots hear them.
 Pilots are the only major worker group at Delta Airlines represented by a union but they are not the only employee group with which Delta has been negotiating cuts. 
 Flight attendants at the company's regional Comair unit, a small group represented by the Teamsters union, are threatening to strike if the bankruptcy court agrees to the airline's request that their contract be voided. Judge Adlai S. Hardin of United States Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan could rule by Monday on a company proposal to cut the attendants' pay and benefits by $8.9 million a year.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Delta pilots picketed in Atlanta. They had threatened to walk off their jobs before an agreement was reached. (Photo by John Amis/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); APPROVALS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (77%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%) Airlines and Airplanes; Labor; Organized Labor; Givebacks (Collective Bargaining); Strikes; Pilots; Wages and Salaries

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (59%) Delta Air Lines ; Air Line Pilots Assn; Northwest Airlines

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

PERSON: Jeff Bailey

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2006



322 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: Industrial Output Picks Up; Capacity Use at 5-Year High

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Production at factories, mines and utilities grew at a faster pace in March than in February and manufacturers were the busiest in more than five years, a Federal Reserve report showed yesterday. 
 The 0.6 percent increase in production followed a 0.5 percent gain in February, the report said. The share of industrial capacity in use rose to 81.3 percent, the highest since September 2000, from 81 percent.
''Manufacturing is gaining strength heading into the second quarter,'' said Brian Bethune, an economist at Global Insight in Lexington, Mass. ''We have a level of capacity use that justifies more business investment.''
 Economists expected a 0.5 percent increase in industrial production, after February's previously reported 0.7 percent increase.
 Industries have used 81 percent of capacity on average over the last three decades, according to Fed data. Higher-than-average operating rates increase the risk of bottlenecks in the production process that could lead manufacturers to raise prices.
 ''The capacity utilization rate and unemployment rate have recently reached zones that on occasion in the past have been associated with the beginnings of upward pressure on inflation,'' a Fed governor, Donald Kohn, said in a speech Thursday in Oklahoma City.
 The central bank has raised the benchmark interest rate 15 consecutives times since June 2004, taking it to 4.75 percent. The next meeting is set for May 10.
 Work at factories, which accounts for almost 90 percent of industrial production, rose 0.5 percent last month after falling 0.1 percent in February. Production of consumer durable goods, which include automobiles, furniture and electronics, increased 0.3 percent after decreasing 0.1 percent the previous month.
 Production of autos and parts rose 1.5 percent after declining 1.1 percent. Manufacturing production excluding autos rose 0.5 percent after a decrease of 0.1 percent. Business equipment production, which includes transportation and information processing equipment, increased 0.8 percent in March after rising 0.2 percent the previous month. Production of technology equipment, like computers, communications gear and semiconductors, rose 2.7 percent, the most since August, after increasing 1 percent.
 Production of nondurable consumer goods, which include food, clothing, and paper products, rose 0.5 percent in March after increasing 0.9 percent the previous month.
 Electric and gas utility output rose 0.5 percent last month. Mine production increased 0.9 percent in March after falling 0.7 percent.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Industrial Production''Index of total industrial production, 1997 = 100, seasonally adjusted.March: +0.5%Feb.: +0.5Jan.: -0.4Graph tracks total industrial production since 2004.(Source by Federal Reserve)Chart: ''Capacity Utilization''Total industrial output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted.Operating RatesMarch: 81.9%Feb.: 81.6Jan.: 81.3Graph tracks total industrial output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted, since 2004.(Source by Federal Reserve)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAPACITY UTILIZATION (92%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MINING OUTPUT (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (79%); DURABLE GOODS (79%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); PLANT CAPACITY (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); MINES & MINING (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (64%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%) United States Economy; Production; Factories and Industrial Plants; Mines and Mining; Electric Light and Power; Gas (Fuel)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (74%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2006



323 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Economy Meanders, but Gas Prices Stick to Trend 

BYLINE: By Mark A. Stein

 BODY:
GOOD and getting better, or weak and getting worse. Both views on the economy had their believers amid mixed signals on energy prices, consumer attitudes, the job market and interest rates this week.

STEPPING ON THE GAS -- Just in time for the summer driving season, gasoline prices began to rise across the country, topping $3 a gallon at some stations in New York, Los Angeles and some other major metropolitan areas.
 The increase was driven by political instability in major oil-producing countries, notably Iran, which is confronting the West over its uranium-enrichment program, and Nigeria, where government opponents have taken to attacking petroleum production plants. Together, these events pushed oil prices above $69 a barrel on world markets. 
An environmental problem is also contributing to higher gasoline prices. Producers are racing to replace an octane enhancer, MTBE, with ethanol because MTBE that has leaked out of storage tanks is fouling water supplies across the country. Ethanol, however, is in relatively short supply for now.
 In response to higher crude oil prices, Saudi Arabia, the world's biggest producer, restated a pledge to increase its production capacity by about a third, to 12.5 million barrels a day. That may not be enough to curb gasoline prices in the short term because domestic inventories are low and production in the Gulf of Mexico still has not recovered from last year's hurricanes.

IN THE MOOD -- Retail sales rebounded in March, the Commerce Department reported, bolstering economists' conclusions that the economy is basically sound and will continue to expand for the rest of the year.
 Over all, sales rose by 0.6 percent in March, recovering from a decline in February. Excluding a slump in gasoline sales caused by rising prices, overall sales rose 0.7 percent. Auto dealers, building centers, and bookstores reported sales gains, while sales slowed at electronics and appliances stores.
 Confident shoppers may reflect a solid job market. The Labor Department said 313,000 applied for first-time unemployment benefits last month; that was a gain of 12,000 over February, a higher-than-expected rise, but economists said it nonetheless suggested a robust jobs market.
 The government is scheduled to release its estimate of total economic growth in the first quarter at the end of this month. Some economists are forecasting an annual pace of 4.5 percent, which is relatively brisk.

SCALING BACK -- Some corners of the economy, of course, remain weak, particularly domestic automakers. The Ford Motor Company identified two more factories -- pickup-making plants, in St. Paul and in Norfolk, Va. -- it plans to close by 2008 as it tries to deal with falling sales and large losses on its North American auto operations.
 General Motors also continued to retrench, agreeing to sell its remaining stake in the Japanese truck maker Isuzu for about $300 million, which it needs for expenses to close plants, shed workers and introduce new models in North America.
 More cutbacks are likely at both companies. Ford, for example, has said it will soon identify two more plants that it intends to shut as it tries to match its production capacity to its diminished share of the American market. 

TV ON THE PC -- Seeking to come to grips with digital technology that is revolutionizing its industry, the Walt Disney Company said it would make some of its programming available over the Internet free, but in a format that makes it impossible to skip commercials.
 For Disney, the approach may bolster revenue by allowing it to sell two sets of advertising -- traditional television commercials one day and online ads the next, when shows are posted on the Internet. For advertisers, the approach could let them reach a younger, Web-oriented audience and would prevent viewers from fast-forwarding through ads as they can on a digital video recorder.
 Starting next month, Disney will make four shows from its ABC network -- ''Desperate Housewives,'' ''Lost,'' ''Commander in Chief'' and ''Alias'' -- available online. 

KEEPING ENRON'S SECRETS -- As part of a settlement with Enron on charges of market manipulation, federal regulators want to keep secret most of the audiotapes, e-mail messages and other documents that show how Enron reaped billions of dollars by gaming the system, according to Senator Maria Cantwell, Democrat of Washington.
 The actions came during the California energy crisis that caused widespread power shortages and utility bankruptcy filings. On partial transcripts released during the government's investigation, Enron traders boasted of cheating some unsuspecting customers who would not understand that their pockets were being picked by the company, which deliberately withheld power supplies to the state to inflate prices.
 Harlan Loeb, a spokesman for what he calls ''the new team'' that is running Enron, described the proposed settlement as ''the best deal for creditors.''

WORLD OF PAIN -- A week after awarding a 77-year-old New Jersey man and his wife $4.5 million in compensatory damages from the painkiller Vioxx, a jury concluded that the drug's manufacturer, Merck, owed the couple $9 million more in punitive damages because it deliberately misled regulators about risks associated with Vioxx.
 The painkiller is associated with increased risk of heart attack in patients who take it for at least 18 months. The plaintiff in this case, John McDarby, had done so and suffered a heart attack, which led him to break his hip. He now uses a wheelchair.
 Merck, based in Whitehouse Station, N.J., has said it will appeal the decision, the first time that a jury in New Jersey -- home of many of the country's biggest drug makers -- has awarded punitive damages against a pharmaceutical company.
 The company faces thousands of other lawsuits over Vioxx, an arthritis medication taken by 20 million Americans from 1999 to 2004.
 MOST POPULAR -- Following are the most-popular business articles on nytimes.com from April 8 through April 14:
 1. The Long-Distance Journey of a Fast-Food Order
 2. Advice on Boss's Pay May Not Be So Independent
 3. Off to the Races Again, Leaving Many Behind
 4. Forget Computers. Here Comes the Sun.
 5. Michael Jackson Bailout Said to Be Close
 Links are at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Higher grades of gasoline cost more than $3 a gallon this week in Laguna Beach, Calif. Oil prices rose on political concerns involving two big producing areas, Iran and Nigeria. (Photo by Chris Carlson/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (96%); GASOLINE PRICES (94%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); FUEL ADDITIVES (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); TRENDS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (86%); DIVESTITURES (86%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (79%); ARTHRITIS (79%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); RETAILERS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ALCOHOLS (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ETHANOL (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (77%); CLOSINGS (76%); CITIES (76%); PLANT CLOSINGS (74%); PLANT CAPACITY (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (74%); LITIGATION (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); ETHICS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (73%); POLITICS (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); WEATHER (64%); NEW CAR DEALERS (62%); BOOKSTORES (62%); PRODUCT RECALLS (59%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Garages and Service Stations; Politics and Government; Retail Stores and Trade; Labor; Unemployment Insurance; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Automobiles; Factories and Industrial Plants; Shutdowns (Institutional); Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Television; Computers and the Internet; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Advertising and Marketing; Electronic Mail; Electric Light and Power; Frauds and Swindling; Ethics; Suits and Litigation; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Arthritis and Rheumatism; Vioxx (Drug); Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Sales; Recordings and Downloads (Audio); Recalls and Bans of Products; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Consumer Protection; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Urban Areas; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%) Commerce Department; Labor Department (US); Ford Motor Co; General Motors Corp; Isuzu Motors Ltd; Enron Corp; Enron Corp; Merck & Co Inc; Disney, Walt, Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%)

PERSON: Maria (Sen) Cantwell; John Mcdarby; Mark Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); NIGERIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) New York City; Los Angeles (Calif); California; Middle East

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2006



324 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S ONLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Capitalism on the Cob 

BYLINE: By DAN MITCHELL

 BODY:
MICHAEL POLLAN'S new book, ''The Omnivore's Dilemma: A Natural History of Four Meals,'' describes a nation that is the victim of ''a plague of corn.'' The No. 1 legal crop is ''the perfect capitalist plant,'' he said on ''Fresh Air'' on NPR this week.
 About a third of Mr. Pollan's book is taken up with corn. It is the ''keystone species'' of the ''industrial food chain'' that feeds most of us, he said in an interview with Techdirt.com. 
America, Mr. Pollan says, has ''a national eating disorder.'' To describe it, the book traces the creation of four meals: one ''industrial,'' two ''organic,'' and one procured by the author himself as a ''hunter-gatherer.'' 
 There are problems with each, but the industrial meal, not surprisingly, is the most troublesome. He traces it from an Iowa cornfield to its final form -- fast food scarfed down in a moving car.
 All along that journey, corn wreaks havoc. The overuse of nitrogen fertilizers leads to occasional ''blue baby'' alerts in Des Moines warning parents that nitrate-loaded tap water could render their babies' brains unable to receive oxygen. Those same fertilizers flow down the Mississippi into the Gulf of Mexico, where they seasonally create a ''dead zone'' the size of New Jersey that is dangerous to sea life.
 By virtue of its being ''paved over'' with corn, Iowa is, in its way, the most developed state in the country, he told NPR. On the market, corn is cheap, Mr. Pollan points out. But the costs -- to the environment, to the economy, and to the health care system -- are enormous. 
 ''We eat so much corn that, biologically speaking, most Americans are corn on two legs,'' Bonnie Azab Powell, a journalist, wrote on NewsCenter site of the University of California, Berkeley (berkeley.edu/news).
 Image Is Everything -- Adidas is selling a line of shoes bearing an image designed by an artist who has repeatedly used the same image -- a stereotypical depiction of an Asian youth -- in anti-racist contexts. That didn't stop bloggers and chat room denizens from calling it racist.
 The controversy grew from there. Even after they learned of the history of both the image and the artist, Barry McGee, some critics continued to insist that the drawing, which shows ''an Asian youth with bowl-cut hair, pig nose and buck teeth,'' as described by the BBC, was offensive. ''Slapping a Chinese face on a sneaker removes it from that context,'' Aimee Baldillo of the Asian American Justice Center, told the BBC.
 The criticisms amount to ''Internet garbage,'' said Keith Hufnagel, owner of Huf, the United States clothing designer that produced the shoe for Adidas. Still, message boards on sites like Shanghaiist.com, contain negative reactions from people who say that while they're sure Adidas meant no harm, they're still insulted. 
 Click Fraud -- Benjamin Cohen, often described as Britain's ''first teenaged dot-com billionaire,'' writes in his Times Online (timesonline.co.uk) column about how Google accused his company of click fraud -- where either publishers or the competitors of online advertisers repeatedly click on ads to cost those advertisers money. Mr. Cohen insists that his company, which publishes the gay-themed magazine Pinknews.co.uk, is totally innocent. Nevertheless, Google yanked the site from its AdSense service. 
 Renaissance Men? Young men are generally neither metrosexuals nor ballcap-wearing meatheads, according to a marketing study commissioned by Miller Brewing (millerbrewing.com). 
 As young men ''evolve,'' they ''become more interested in elevating their game without sacrificing too many of their regular-guy comforts'' but are not ''overtly concerned about fitting into cultural molds or trends.''
 Oh, and most of them ''prefer beer to wine and hard liquor.''
 Miller's news release contains this odd conclusion: ''And curiously, men who prefer wine are more likely to have a greater affinity for footwear. (A connection, perhaps?)''
 What are you trying to say, Miller? DAN MITCHELL


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Sara Varon)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERTILIZERS (90%); WRITERS (89%); CHILDREN (87%); FOOTWEAR (86%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (85%); INTERNET & WWW (85%); RACE & RACISM (84%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (79%); LITERATURE (78%); FAST FOOD (78%); ETHICS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); BREWERIES (74%); EATING DISORDERS (69%); BRAIN (65%); ASIAN AMERICANS (64%); CHAT ROOMS (63%) Computers and the Internet; Food; Grain; Books and Literature; Shoes and Boots; Blogs and Blogging (Internet); Computers and the Internet; Frauds and Swindling; Advertising and Marketing; Ethics; Alcoholic Beverages; Wines; Beer; Research; Computers and the Internet; Children and Youth; Asian-Americans; Discrimination

ORGANIZATION: Adidas-Salomon Ag; Google Inc; Miller Brewing Co

PERSON: Barry Mcgee; Benjamin Cohen; Michael Pollan; Dan Mitchell

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (55%) IOWA, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (74%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2006



325 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Indian Outsourcer Says Big Profits Will Continue

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
The question about the Indian outsourcing industry is, When will the laws of economic gravity slow the business down?
 Infosys gave its answer yesterday: not yet.
Infosys is the first of the major technology outsourcers to report its annual results and to present its outlook for the current year. The view from Bangalore is all blue sky.
 The company plans to hire another 25,000 employees over the next year, increasing its payroll by nearly 50 percent. Infosys said its revenue should increase 22 percent to 30 percent this year, and its profit should rise 26 percent to 28 percent. 
 Perhaps more significant, and surprising to most analysts, Infosys said it did not anticipate lower profit margins this year. 
 The Indian technology services companies like Infosys, Wipro and Cognizant have operating profit margins that are two to four times the level of their American rivals like I.B.M., Accenture and Electronic Data Systems. 
 Industry analysts closely track the profit-margin trends of the Indian companies for signs of an erosion of their competitive edge. That advantage comes mainly from lower labor costs because the wages of software engineers in India are one fourth or less the salaries of American engineers. 
 If profit margins start to decline, that would raise doubts about the optimistic long-term growth prospects that seem to be assumed in the stock prices of the leading Indian companies. Their shares typically trade at multiples of 35 to 45 times earnings.
 Some industry analysts warn that margins will fall soon. ''The profit margins of these companies are utterly unsustainable,'' said Rod Bourgeois, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, who has a hold recommendation on Infosys and other Indian outsourcers. ''And this should be the inflection year for the Indian firms.''
 The forces squeezing margins, analysts say, include regular wage increases in India of 10 percent to 15 percent a year, high turnover, and more competition from American companies that are hiring and acquiring in India to narrow the cost advantage enjoyed by the Indian outsourcers.
 I.B.M., for example, has increased its Indian work force to an estimated 35,000. Accenture has hired aggressively and now has 18,000 workers in India, and plans to reach 34,000 in a couple of years. Electronic Data has 3,000 Indian workers and plans to hire another 2,500 to 3,000 this year. In addition, Electronic Data made a bid this month for Mphasis, an Indian outsourcing company with 11,000 employees.
 The profit margins for Infosys did fall in the quarter ended in March, the fourth quarter of its fiscal year, to 26.3 percent from 29.4 percent in the previous quarter. The company blamed a stronger rupee, higher depreciation on buildings and equipment, and accelerated hiring for the falloff.
 Yet, despite 15 percent wage increases this spring, Infosys said that it expected its profit margins for fiscal 2007 to be about 28 percent, unchanged from last year. 
 Infosys, according to Mr. Bourgeois of Bernstein, may well be too optimistic, and he noted that the profit margin for fiscal 2006 was 80 basis points -- or hundredths of a percent -- lower than the company had projected earlier. 
 Infosys executives said that it should be able to maintain its profit margins by improving efficiency and by moving steadily into higher-value services like consulting, where it could charge more.
 In an interview, Nandan M. Nilekani, the chief executive of Infosys, said that skeptics underestimated the company's innovations in training, managing risk and improving efficiency. ''This is a well-oiled machine, and what we're doing in technology services is a lot like what Dell did in the personal computer business,'' Mr. Nilekani said. ''We've built a scalable platform that can out-compete others in our industry for the foreseeable future.''
 Julio Quinteros, an analyst at Goldman Sachs, said the Infosys results and outlook were ''impressive on the surface, even though the fourth quarter was kind of a mess in terms of margins.''
 Mr. Quinteros has a hold recommendation on Infosys because of its high stock price, but said he was ''very positive'' on the Indian outsourcing sector. 
 ''Could margins come down? Absolutely,'' he said. ''You'd be ignoring basic economics if you thought otherwise. But I think there is still a lot of runway here.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (71%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (66%); RELOCATIONS (60%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (52%) Company Reports ; Computers and the Internet; Relocation of Business; Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Wages and Salaries

COMPANY: INFOSYS LTD (92%); HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (58%); ACCENTURE PLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Infosys Technologies Ltd; Infosys Technologies Ltd

TICKER: INFY (PAR) (92%); INFY (NYSE) (92%); INFY (NSE) (92%); ACN (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: Nandan M Nilekani; Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: KARNATAKA, INDIA (73%) INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) India

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2006



326 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: What One Low Number Doesn't Show 

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
IN the summer of 1983, the United States was just starting to come out of a brutal recession and the unemployment rate was 9.4 percent, twice what it is now in a recovery that has gone on for more than four years. 
 But men in the prime of their working lives -- 35 to 64 -- were more likely to have jobs in the summer of 1983 than their successors in that age group are to have jobs now.
That is one reason it is necessary to look beyond the published unemployment rates to get a more accurate picture. The published unemployment rates count as unemployed only those who are actively looking for work. Those who have given up looking, or do not want to work, are not counted.
 Another way is to look at employment in comparison to the working-age population. That does not show whether those who are not working are happy to be unemployed, but it does offer insights into the changing job market.
 For a long time, the big news there was the influx of women into the labor force. The accompanying charts show that comparing March 1966 to March 2000 -- both times when the unemployment rate was around 4 percent -- the percentage of working-age men who had jobs had fallen significantly in almost all age groups, with the biggest declines among those over 55, where it was reasonable to think that earlier retirement was taking place.
 The exception to that was that more teenagers were working, a change not altogether encouraging if it meant they had left school. 
 More than offsetting the declines in the number of men working were increases in employment of women in all age levels -- except over 65, where retirement again seemed responsible. The figures do not show the extent to which the increase in women working reflected better job opportunities or economic necessity, but the trend was clear.
 The numbers are based on monthly surveys of households by the Labor Department. Because those surveys can be volatile, the figures in the table reflect averages for six-month periods, ended in the month shown.
 In the last six years, the trends have turned around. Even though the unemployment rate last month was 4.7 percent, not much higher than it was in March 2000, the percentage of people working has fallen in every age group except the highest ones. 
 Men and women above 55 are more likely to be working now. Again, it is not easy to tell whether that reflects a greater opportunity or a greater need for income.
 What that means is that younger people are significantly less likely to have jobs now than they did six years ago. Thus, it should be no surprise that in the Conference Board's consumer confidence survey, the number of respondents who think jobs are plentiful now is barely half the number who thought that in March 2000.
 So how can the unemployment rate be so low? Fewer people say they want to work. The labor force -- those with jobs or saying they want one -- is rising at a much lower rate than the working-age population. The rest do not count in the unemployment figures, but that may not mean they are happy about being unemployed.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''More Older People Work, but Fewer Young Ones Do''Unemployment in the United States is low - 4.7 percent in March - but that has not stemmed anxiety about finding jobs. The figures show the percentage of people who hold jobs and do not distinguish between those who are not seeking jobs and those who are unable to find them. From 1966 to 2000, more women entered the workplace, but a lower percentage of men had jobs
 from 2000 to 2006, jobs declined for younger workers, but grew for older ones.Percentage of people who hold jobsMEN, BY AGE: 16+1966: 77%2000: 71%2006: 69%MEN, BY AGE: 16 to 191966: 422000: 432006: 34MEN, BY AGE: 20 to 241966: 792000: 752006: 71MEN, BY AGE: 25 to 341966: 942000: 902006: 87MEN, BY AGE: 35 to 441966: 952000: 902006: 89MEN, BY AGE: 45 to 541966: 932000: 862006: 84MEN, BY AGE: 55 to 641966: 812000: 662006: 67MEN, BY AGE: 65+1966: 262000: 172006: 19WOMEN, BY AGE: 16+1966: 382000: 582006: 56WOMEN, BY AGE: 16 to 191966: 332000: 422006: 36WOMEN, BY AGE: 20 to 241966: 472000: 672006: 64WOMEN, BY AGE: 25 to 341966: 382000: 742006: 70WOMEN, BY AGE: 35 to 441966: 452000: 752006: 73WOMEN, BY AGE: 45 to 541966: 502000: 762006: 74WOMEN, BY AGE: 55 to 641966: 402000: 512006: 56WOMEN, BY AGE: 65+1966: 102000: 92006: 11Graphs also measure percentage changes from 1966 to 2000 and from 2000 to 2006.Note: All figures are six-month moving averages ending in March.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics, via Haver Analytics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (89%); TRENDS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); MEN (77%); WOMEN (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); ADOLESCENTS (69%) Labor; Unemployment Insurance

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2006



327 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: Bird Flu Virus May Be Spread By Smuggling 

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: MILAN 

 BODY:
Two vans of undercover police inspectors pulled up at a storefront in Milan in March, their target neither terrorists nor drugs. 
 Picking their way through a refrigerator at the back of a Chinese grocery store off a piazza, the agents found their quarry: bags of duck feet.
 This followed a similar raid at a Milan warehouse a few months ago that yielded three million packages of chicken meat smuggled from China.
 There is increasing evidence that a thriving international trade in smuggled poultry -- including live birds, chicks and meat -- is helping spread bird flu, experts say.
 Poultry smuggling is a huge business that poses a unique threat: The (A)H5N1 bird flu virus is robust enough to survive not just in live birds but also in frozen meat, feathers, bones and even on cages, though it dies with cooking. 
 ''No one knows the real numbers, but they are large,'' said Timothy E. Moore, director of federal projects at the National Agricultural Biosecurity Center at Kansas State University. 
 ''Behind illegal drug traffic, illegal animals are No. 2,'' he said. ''And there is no doubt in my mind that this will play a prominent role in the spread of this disease. It looks to be the main way it is spreading in some parts of the world,'' along with the migration of wild birds.
 Particularly when smuggled live, poultry can easily pass the disease on to birds in other countries. Though the risk of transmission in, say, infected frozen duck feet in a restaurant is minimal, poultry parts can also spread the disease to birds when used as raw feed or in fertilizer on farms. 
 Poultry from bird-flu-infected countries has been banned in Europe since 2002, but smuggling seriously undermines those bans.
 ''In spite of the E.U. ban, we are still seizing Chinese poultry products,'' said Gen. Emilio Borghini, commander of the Military Police Health Service in Italy.
 Many experts are convinced that the illegal import of infected live chicks introduced the virus into Nigeria. Its first cases were confirmed in February, but soon the virus appeared on poultry farms in multiple areas, leading to the widespread culling of birds in a country that can ill afford the loss. 
 And yet, the disease has not been found in wild birds there.
 In early April, Vietnamese health officials said chickens smuggled over the border from China had reintroduced bird flu into their country, which had reported no cases for four months.
 No one has any precise sense of the breadth of the trade, or the extent of its role in spreading bird flu, because until recently poultry smuggling was regarded mostly as a nuisance.
 There is extensive smuggling between China and Africa. In the developing world, the illegal trade often has economic roots, to avoid duties. But there is a strong cultural element as well. For example, Asian immigrants seek out poultry products, like feet, that may not be available in the West. The illegal meat seized in Italy has been at Chinese stores or warehouses servicing Chinese restaurants.
 ''I would love to have a map of illegal trade, but I'm embarrassed to say we don't have a good handle on it,'' said Dr. Juan Lubroth, a senior veterinarian at the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization in Rome. ''We all know it occurs and we are worried, but what we see confiscated is only the tip of the iceberg.''
 The trade is hard to control because huge amounts cross borders in trucks, carts, planes and boats each day. Smuggled meat from Asia is often loaded in containers with a mishmash of other goods, like clothes, toys and furniture. 
 ''We're aware that the risk to public health can be hidden in these containers, but thousands of containers pass through Italian ports and it is impossible to inspect them all,'' said Mario Pantano, director of the Military Police Health Service in southern Italy, who said his staff had found poultry products stuffed into shoes.
 Late last year, his team discovered 260 tons of poultry meat scattered among several containers at a port in southern Italy, destined for Moldova, in Eastern Europe. Because of improper paperwork, the inspectors started asking questions and determined that the shipment had come from China. 
 ''The meat was officially destined for countries on the doorstep of the European Union and we knew that the chickens could be relabeled and illegally re-enter Italy for our consumption,'' Mr. Pantano said.
 Although many countries attribute the spread of (A)H5N1 to migratory fowl, many ornithologists say the evidence often points to smuggling. 
 ''We believe it is spread by both bird migration and trade, but that trade, particularly illegal trade, is more important,'' said Wade Hagemeijer, a bird flu expert at the Netherlands-based Wetlands International, which has been studying the role of migrating birds.
 Although bird flu has now been detected on many farms in several African nations, there have been only a handful of reports of infections in wild birds on the continent, supporting the notion that trade is most important there.
 ''We're been looking for it in wild birds for the last two months and it is surprising that we've come up with zero,'' Dr. Lubroth said. 
 The effect of smuggling can sometimes be direct, when sick birds are smuggled onto farms. The virus strain found on the farms involved in Nigeria's first outbreak, in northern Kano State, closely matched those found on Chinese farms, Mr. Hagemeijer said.
 Nancy Morgan, an economist at F.A.O., said smuggling could have easily introduced bird flu into Nigeria and Egypt, the two African countries with the most extensive bird flu problems.
 ''In developing countries, the border controls are marginal at best,'' she said. ''As long as there's economic incentive, it will happen.''
 Producers in Egypt and Nigeria frequently import day-old chicks for about 20 cents a bird, she said, because it is easier to buy them than to master the delicate technology of hatching. In Nigeria, all the chicks were smuggled and therefore not inspected, because all imports were banned by the government to protect a young domestic industry.
 Poultry products can also bring the virus into a country: infected chicken parts in feed or fertilizer, secondhand cages once used to house infected birds, or cheap meat that ends up being used on a farm or in a home where other birds are kept.
 The main concern is China, a country with a serious bird flu problem.
 General Borghini, the Italian medical officer, referring to a type of dark-skinned chicken that according to traditional Asian belief has medicinal properties, said, ''Black chicken is our big, big headache.'' 
 Several months ago, health inspectors in Milan noticed that all the Chinese restaurants in Milan bought their poultry from a single distributor. When they conducted a surprise raid at the warehouse of the distributor, Euro Food International, they discovered three million packages of meat from China.
 In the United States, Dr. Moore, of the Kansas State University, worries particularly about poorly regulated markets in live birds that cater to Muslims and Jews who want poultry slaughtered according to religious custom.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A Taiwanese inspector examining birds smuggled from China, which is the source of much of the live poultry and poultry products smuggled into Europe and Africa. China also has widespread bird flu cases. (Photo by Ting Chih-Kuan/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFLUENZA (93%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (92%); SMUGGLING (90%); VIRUSES (90%); BIRDS (90%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (90%); POULTRY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); MEATS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (78%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (77%); FROZEN FOODS (77%); MISC POULTRY PRODUCTION (77%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (76%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (76%); ANIMALS (75%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (73%); TERRORISM (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); FERTILIZERS (67%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (65%); ARMED FORCES (61%); DISEASE REPORTING (56%); ANIMAL POACHING & TRAFFICKING (56%) Influenza; Avian Influenza; Smuggling; Poultry; Frozen Foods; Influenza

ORGANIZATION: KANSAS STATE UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: Elisabeth Rosenthal

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (75%) CHINA (95%); EUROPE (93%); AFRICA (93%); NIGERIA (92%); TAIWAN (79%); ITALY (79%); UNITED STATES (75%) Europe; China; Africa; Nigeria

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2006



328 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: Long Trip by Sea and Into a Political Maze for Papuans Seeking Independence

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER

DATELINE: SOMERVILLE, Australia, April 9 

 BODY:
From one of the most remote places on earth, Herman Wanggai stepped into a 75-foot motorized outrigger last November and pushed off for a calculated and clandestine journey. 
 Along with one of his twin 2-year-old sons and more than 30 other people, he set off from the northern coast of Papua, the Indonesian province once called Irian Jaya, on New Guinea. After six weeks, under a blistering equatorial sun and with Pacific waves sloshing on board, they made it thousands of miles to Merauke, on the southern shore. There, they picked up his wife and other son and set out once again, in the dead of night, with little food and no compass.
Four days later, on Jan. 13, the group hit a reef near Mapoon, on the northwest coast of Cape York peninsula, clambered ashore, and found that they had miraculously reached their destination, Australia, where a new drama began.
 Several weeks later, Australia, acting with surprising speed, granted Mr. Wanggai, 32, and all his passengers, save one, political asylum. The decision set off a diplomatic firestorm that has brought the issue of Papuan independence to international attention, which is just what Mr. Wanggai and his wife, Ferra Kambu, wanted. 
 In response, Indonesia recalled its ambassador and Indonesian politicians have called for trade sanctions. 
 For Indonesia, the issue could not be more serious. An archipelago stretching thousands of miles, the country has already faced two secessionist wars in recent years, in Aceh and East Timor. The latter succeeded in breaking away. 
 Indonesian leaders do not want to repeat the episode with Papua, which holds the biggest source of income for the government: the world's richest gold reserve.
 As conflicts on Papua have flared -- four people were killed in protests last month -- more and more churches and human rights groups in Australia, the United States and Europe have lined up behind the cause of Papuan independence. 
 Though Australia does not support independence, the decision to grant asylum meant that authorities had concluded the Papuans faced a ''well-founded fear of persecution'' if they were returned to Indonesia.
 [In an effort to soothe relations with Indonesia, the government announced April 13 that from now on Papuan refugees would be deported to places like the desolate island of Nauru while their asylum claims were processed, which can take several years.] 
 The Indonesian government does not permit journalists to visit Papua without special permission, which is rarely granted. Even diplomats are closely watched when they visit the province, a European ambassador said recently.
 Without access to Papua, it is almost impossible to assess the human rights situation. The Indonesian police and military deny there are any abuses; the Papuan refugees here speak of systematic persecution. 
 The United States government does not support independence, either. But in its annual country-by-country human rights report, released last month, the State Department cited incidents in which Indonesian soldiers had beaten, tortured and killed suspected promoters of independence. 
 In one case, the report said, soldiers tortured a suspected secessionist ''by slashing his face and body with a knife and razor and then pouring petrol over his head and setting his hair on fire.''
 The report also noted that the Indonesian government had made only ''limited progress in establishing accountability'' for past human rights abuses committed by the military and police.
 It was because of persecution for their support of independence, Mr. Wanggai said, that he had risked all and braved what his wife described as waves ''as high as mountains.'' 
 They also wanted to make a point, they said: that Papua, a wild, mountainous and heavily forested land roughly the size of California and rich in natural resources, does not rightfully belong to Indonesia. 
 Papua's population of some 2.5 million people are mostly Melanesian, and many are Christian, converted after years of missionary work. Most Indonesians are Javanese and Muslim. 
 ''We are activists,'' said Mr. Wanggai, a one-time law student who has been active in the independence movement for more than a decade. He has been jailed twice, once for two years for flying the West Papuan independence flag. 
 Ms. Kambu, 36, the daughter of a tribal chief, has a bachelor's degree in sociology and has been part of the movement since her university days. She described the independence cause as a ''nonviolent struggle.'' 
 Most of the others who fled with the couple were university students and were also active in the independence movement.
 West Papuans' claims for independence reach back half a century. After World War II, the Dutch gave Indonesia its independence, but because of its vast riches kept Papua. 
 In 1963, to appease Indonesia's left-leaning dictator Sukarno, who was demanding West Papua as part of Indonesia, President Kennedy persuaded the Dutch to agree to a United Nations sponsored plebiscite, which was held in 1969. 
 The Papuan leaders voted to join Indonesia, but by nearly all accounts, including by people who do not support Papuan independence, the vote was manipulated by Jakarta.
 Indonesia has made some concessions in recent years, agreeing to change the name of the province from Irian Jaya to Papua, and to grant more autonomy, including a greater share of the revenues from the province's riches, like a huge copper and gold mine run by the American mining company Freeport-McMoRan.
 But little of the promised autonomy has been delivered. The central government has done little to improve the lives of Papuans, and health care and schooling remain rudimentary. 
 For President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, who is highly regarded by the American and Australian governments for bringing stability to Indonesia, Papua is a critical test. 
 On the one hand, he faces rising protests in Papua by an alienated and increasingly organized independence movement that, as the Australian asylum decision shows, is drawing greater international support. 
 On the other, he must satisfy strident nationalists at home, including senior military commanders who are angry over a deal he made last year with secessionists in Aceh Province that brought peace but gave the Acehnese considerable autonomy. 
 The commanders, who hold great sway in Indonesia, will not give the president much room to maneuver on the Papuan issue, and some even favor a military solution, which they pursued for years in Aceh at the cost of many lives. 
 The refugees in Mr. Wanggai's party, who attended St. Andrew's Anglican Church here, about 40 miles south of Melbourne, on Palm Sunday, said they had talked with their relatives back in Papua and had been told that the Indonesian police had been questioning the relatives to determine exactly who fled and why. 
 The ''why'' is clear to the refugees and those who support them, including Peter Woods, the pastor of St. Andrew's, who was a missionary in Papua from 1978 to 1983. ''The Papuans are treated as slaves of the Javanese,'' he said.
 As the refugees and other worshippers walked out of St. Andrew's, they passed a bulletin board with a poster on it that read, ''West Papua: An Issue Whose Time Has Come.''
 That is precisely what the Papuan refugees here hope, and what the Indonesian government fears.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Outside a church near Melbourne, a provocative poster.
 Herman Wanggai of Papua and his wife, Ferra Kambu, with their twins on a Melbourne beach. Indonesia is protesting their asylum in Australia. (Photographs by Edwina Pickles for The New York Times)Map of Australia highlighting Somerville: The journey in a motorized outrigger from the northern shore of West Papua Province to a reef in North Australia took more than six weeks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ASYLUM (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (88%); REFUGEES (88%); ISLANDS & REEFS (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); JOURNALISM (69%); DEPORTATION (60%) Asylum (Political); Foreign Service; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

PERSON: Raymond Bonner; Herman Wanggai; Ferra Kambu

GEOGRAPHIC: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (79%) EARTH (90%) AUSTRALIA (96%); INDONESIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); NAURU (79%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%) Indonesia; Australia; Indonesia

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2006



329 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW: With Stephen Riggio; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Words Printed On Pages Still Sell Well

BYLINE: By KEN JAWOROWSKI

 BODY:
Sure, Stephen Riggio, the chief executive of Barnes & Noble, is happy to discuss his company's sales. But unlike executives who speak only of margins and mergers, Mr. Riggio is equally eager to talk about the joys of books and the pleasures of a comfortable store. 
 With 799 retail locations, an extensive Web site and about 40,000 employees, Barnes & Noble is the world's largest bookseller. In addition to its popularity with shoppers, it has been prized by investors, too. In 2005, the company's shares rose more than 30 percent, and they are up about 5 percent so far this year. 
Mr. Riggio recently discussed the book industry. Following are excerpts: 

Q: Is this a good time to be selling books?

A: Reports of the book industry's demise have been greatly exaggerated over the last 20 years. And they've been unsupported by any sound research. The fact is the industry has never had a single year of sales decline. It's a stable business and it's resilient in the face of competition for people's time from TV, Internet and video games.
 It's a good time to be in the book business. The heaviest book buyers are over 40 years old and that's the fastest-growing segment of the population. Education is booming in America. More Americans are earning college degrees. And there's a post-9/11 baby boomlet that is good for sales of children's books. 
 A bookstore is a place where we can really have relationships with people for their entire lives.

Q: Is there a future for e-books or podcasts of books?

A: It's a very, very tiny market. As the writer Paul Auster told me recently, the book is a perfect technology. If it were invented today, it would be revolutionary. It's user-friendly; it's portable. Books are relatively inexpensive. They have value as physical objects; they last a lifetime.
 Not all books can be converted into digital forms -- just think about illustrated books and children's books. 

Q: Are books fairly priced?

A: Book prices increased much faster than other consumer goods in the late 90's. But prices have leveled off and there has been relatively little or no price inflation in the past few years. Books are relatively inexpensive -- a good value when compared to other forms of entertainment. And they have value and people collect them.

Q: How dependent are you on blockbuster books?

A: Over the last two years, there has hardly been, in the adult hardcover category, a major blockbuster title. Yet we have had two good years. And that's because our strategy emphasizes a vast selection of backlist titles. Best sellers represent less than 5 percent of our sales.
 We greatly benefit when books like ''Harry Potter'' and ''The Da Vinci Code'' and ''The South Beach Diet'' come out. Our business is very stable in the absence of these kinds of books, but when they come in, they bring lots of extra customers into the stores. 

Q: Ninety percent of your sales are made in the stores. How important are sales via the Internet?

A: We see our Web site not just as an advertising vehicle, but as an online catalog. There was a recent study that found 47 percent of people who researched the product online then bought the product offline. And more people use merchant Web sites than search engines when looking for products. So we see the Web site and the stores as totally linked and customers see us as one company.
 You could buy a product from Barnes & Noble online and return it to the store with peace of mind. 

Q: How are your stores designed to attract shoppers?

A: We've created something unique in American retail: a store where you can enjoy spending leisure time. When was the last time you hung out at an office supply store? In hundreds of communities across America we have become the community cultural center.

Q: What coming books look like strong sellers?

A: I can't predict that for sure. But if we look out over the next two or three years, we will see another book from Dan Brown. We will see the last book in the ''Harry Potter'' series. And we will see many books revolving around the 2008 presidential election.

Q: What are you reading now?

A: ''Timbuktu'' by Paul Auster.

Q: What is your favorite book?

A: ''Great Expectations'' by Charles Dickens.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen Riggio

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOKSTORES (90%); MERGERS (89%); BOOK SALES (89%); CHILDREN (86%); BESTSELLERS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (77%); LITERATURE (77%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (77%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (77%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); PODCASTING (63%); INFLATION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Books and Literature; Book Trade

ORGANIZATION: Barnes & Noble

PERSON: STEPHEN RIGGIO (92%) Stephen Riggio; Ken Jaworowski

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2006



330 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1469 words

HEADLINE: Gritted Teeth On the Stand In Houston 

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

DATELINE: HOUSTON 

 BODY:
IN 1995, Jeffrey K. Skilling was feeling blue. Since joining Enron from McKinsey & Company five years earlier, he had worked nonstop to build Enron Capital and Trade Resources from the ground up. In that time, the division had become Enron's crown jewel, and the once stodgy pipeline company had been transformed into a sleek and modern trading machine. The division's success had made Mr. Skilling a wealthy man.
 But that success had come at a price, he testified at his trial this week. His marriage was in serious trouble. ''And I wanted to spend time with my kids,'' he said. To get some balance back into his life, he decided to share the leadership of the trading unit with Ron Burns, an Enron pipeline executive. Mr. Skilling would work two weeks out of every month, focusing solely on strategy, and leave the operational decisions to Mr. Burns. 
''It was a screwball idea,'' Mr. Skilling conceded on the witness stand, responding to the gentle, skillful questioning of his lawyer, Daniel Petrocelli. He's right about that, of course. Although he said in court that Mr. Burns was ''a great guy,'' in truth, Mr. Skilling had contempt for his new partner. As soon as Mr. Burns began making decisions, Mr. Skilling started complaining to his inner circle that ''Ron doesn't get it.'' It wasn't long before Mr. Burns had resigned and Mr. Skilling reclaimed his position as the sole chief executive of Enron Capital and Trade Resources. So much for the blues. So much for the wife and kids. So much for balance.
 Two years later, Mr. Skilling's co-defendant, the Enron chairman Kenneth L. Lay, would name Mr. Skilling president of the entire company. The rest, as they say, is history.
 MR. SKILLING, of course, stands accused of playing a leading role in the unraveling of Enron, and faces 28 counts of fraud, conspiracy, insider trading and making false statements. (Mr. Lay has been charged with six counts.) To the surprise of absolutely no one, he spent the week flatly denying that he had ever done or said anything wrong, and even claimed that Enron was a healthy, growing company that didn't need to commit fraud to generate its glittering earnings. 
 Those partnerships run by Enron's chief financial officer, Andrew S. Fastow, that existed solely to do deals with Enron? Completely on the up and up. Vetted by the accountants! Not used to gin up phony earnings but to lock in legitimate gains! The attempt to hide huge losses from one failing division by folding it into the highly profitable trading business? It was just a plain vanilla corporate reorganization! The accusation by the former Enron treasurer Ben F. Glisan Jr. -- currently serving a five-year prison term -- that Mr. Skilling applauded one partnership in particular because it ''allowed him to circumvent the accounting rules?'' ''That's absur '' Mr. Skilling responded angrily, and then caught himself. ''That's not true,'' he said through gritted teeth. Again and again, Mr. Petrocelli would ask Mr. Skilling if he had schemed or deceived or committed fraud. The answer was always the same: ''Absolutely not.''
 In the world according to Jeffrey Skilling, Enron was brought down by two things: the revelation that Mr. Fastow was using his partnerships to make millions while also skimming from the company -- actions Mr. Skilling contends he knew nothing about. (The government has asserted that he signed off on a secret side agreement with Mr. Fastow, guaranteeing his profit.) And secondly, he says, Enron was done in by a handful of short sellers, who organized a conspiracy to attack the stock. (Gee, where have we heard that before?)
 Well, what did you expect him to say? Yet in between the cracks of his denials -- and embedded in his explanation of how Enron ran its business under his leadership -- another question emerged. How in the world could anyone have thought that Mr. Skilling had the skills and the emotional makeup to run a publicly traded corporation? If character is destiny, Enron was doomed the moment he became its president.
 Consider: Would you trust your company to someone who says in one breath that he needs to step back and save his marriage -- and then in the next that he can't let someone else make business decisions? But Mr. Skilling was never a particularly even-keeled executive. He could be filled with euphoria one minute, and wear ''dark-colored glasses,'' to use his own expression, the next. When he quit Enron in August 2001, after only six month as chief executive -- one of the events that led to Enron's collapse -- he was emotionally distraught in no small part because Enron's stock was falling. But what kind of captain abandons a sinking ship? Afterwards, he fell into a deep depression and took to the bottle for solace, something he admitted early in his testimony. On Thursday, during the last half-hour on the stand, he sounded overwrought -- and even a little unhinged -- as he recounted one last time his final days at the company.
 For most of the time on the witness stand, Mr. Skilling seemed smaller than life. He often wore a timid, tentative facial expression, a little like a third grader hoping not to be reprimanded by the teacher. But at least once a day he would have momentary meltdowns, and all the bitterness, sarcasm and self-pity would creep to the surface -- only to be damped back down by Mr. Petrocelli. In the course of answering a question about Mr. Fastow's crimes, for instance, Mr. Skilling took an unprompted swipe at the F.B.I. -- an incredibly foolhardy thing to do in front of a jury. When you're on the witness stand, fighting for your life, there is nothing more important than being disciplined in what you say and how you act. Mr. Skilling was no more up to that task than he was to running Enron.
 And that was the other thing about listening to Mr. Skilling this week. Again and again, I found myself astounded listening to him describe Enron's business practices. He wants to bring in an outside C.E.O. to run Enron's new (and ill-fated) broadband business, but as soon as his buddy Ken Rice says he'll quit if that happens, Mr. Skilling folds like a cheap suit. Instead, he gives the job to the utterly unqualified Mr. Rice, who doesn't have a clue how to build a broadband business. The traders from one division throw the traders from another division right off the trading floor, and Mr. Skilling does nothing. Mr. Fastow approaches him about setting up a partnership to do business with Enron. He blithely tells Mr. Fastow to work something up and bring it to him -- as if this extraordinary concept, so filled with conflicts and so easily abused -- is no big deal. 
 He has a budget meeting with Lou L. Pai, the head of a poorly performing division called Enron Energy Services. The previous year, the division lost $69 million. Mr. Pai is projecting $50 million in profits for the next year, but Mr. Skilling thinks he's being ''sandbagged,'' and tells Mr. Pai he wants $100 million. Why? Not because he knows anything about how the business is actually performing. 
 Rather, his rationale is based on the fact ''we had made a significant investment'' and hired hundreds of people and he's decided that he now has to have a return on that investment. It is as if the actual operational details -- the blocking and tackling, the execution, the things that make businesses work -- are meaningless. He seems to expect profits to magically appear simply because he says they should. I came away from his testimony thinking that, in fact, is how he believes business is conducted. 
 In the many detailed discussions about all the deals Enron did with Mr. Fastow's partnerships this last week, one thing usually was left out. Rarely did Mr. Skilling try to explain their underlying economic rationale. He acted instead as if Enron's dealings with those partnerships were as common as a thing could be, so ordinary they barely needed explaining. But of course that wasn't remotely true. What was extraordinary about those deals was they had no underlying economic purpose. They only had an accounting purpose. They existed to disguise the truth. If Mr. Skilling understands that fact, then he's a crook. If he doesn't, he's a fool. Either way, he should never have been in charge of Enron. 
 Being on the witness stand, of course, is a test of character, every bit as much as running a company is a test of character. Next week, Mr. Skilling's character will be tested anew when Mr. Petrocelli cedes the questioning to the federal prosecutor Sean M. Berkowitz for cross-examination. I couldn't help notice that on most breaks, Mr. Berkowitz strode the courthouse hallway with a big grin on his face. I'm not surprised. Given Mr. Skilling's performance this week under the tender gaze of Mr. Petrocelli, I'm taking odds that he cracks next week.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeffrey Skilling

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); INSIDER TRADING (77%); WITNESSES (75%); CONSPIRACY (75%); ETHICS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (60%) Automobiles; Factories and Industrial Plants; Shutdowns (Institutional); Layoffs and Job Reductions; Hiring and Promotion; Automobiles; Labor; Accounting and Accountants; Bankruptcies; Perjury ; Ethics; Frauds and Swindling; Insider Trading; Securities and Commodities Violations

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (91%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Toyota Motor Corp; Ford Motor Co; General Motors Corp; Enron Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%)

PERSON: Micheline Maynard; Kenneth L Lay; Jeffrey K Skilling; Joe Nocera

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%) Arkansas; North Carolina; Tennessee; Virginia

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2006



331 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: April 16, 2006 

 BODY:


	 	 		Weeks		This	On		Week	List	FICTION		 	 	1	1	THE DA VINCI CODE, by Dan Brown. (Anchor, $14.95 and $7.99; Broadway special illustrated edition, $22.95.) A murder at the Louvre leads to a trail of clues found in the work of Leonardo and to the discovery of a secret society.		 	 	2	1	DARK DEMON, by Christine Feehan. (Jove, $9.99.) A vampire slayer faces a mysterious woman whose talents rival his own.		 	 	3	2	NO PLACE LIKE HOME, by Mary Higgins Clark. (Pocket, $9.99.) A woman who is trying to conceal her past becomes the target of a killer.		 	 	4	1	COUNTDOWN, by Iris Johansen. (Bantam, $7.99.) A murderer stalks a young woman -- the adopted daughter of the forensic sculptor Eve Duncan.		 	 	5	1	TIME AND AGAIN, by Nora Roberts. (Silhouette, $7.99.) Two previously published tales of a time traveler who falls in love.		 	 	6	132	ANGELS & DEMONS, by Dan Brown. (Pocket, $9.99 and $7.99.) A scholar tries to save the Vatican from the machinations of an underground society.		 	 	7	4	THE MERMAID CHAIR, by Sue Monk Kidd. (Penguin, $14.) On Egret Island, off the coast of South Carolina, a married woman is attracted to a monk.		 	 	8	1	BUMP IN THE NIGHT, by J. D. Robb et al. (Jove, $7.99.) Four stories of the paranormal by various authors, and Nora Roberts, writing pseudonymously.		 	 	9	58	DECEPTION POINT, by Dan Brown. (Pocket, $9.99 and $7.99.) An intelligence analyst is sent to the Arctic on a special assignment by the White House.		 	 	10	5	RAGE, by Jonathan Kellerman. (Ballantine, $7.99.) The psychologist-detective Alex Delaware tries to figure out who murdered a young man who had spent time behind bars for killing a child when he was a teenager.		 	 	11	5	KILL THE MESSENGER, by Tami Hoag. (Bantam, $7.99.) A bicycle messenger becomes the prime suspect in the murder of a sleazy Los Angeles defense attorney.		 	 	12	1	ONE SHOT, by Lee Child. (Dell, $7.99.) The former military investigator Jack Reacher helps search for a gunman who killed five people on a city street.		 	 	13	1	SWORD OF DARKNESS, by Kinley MacGregor. (Avon, $6.99.) A woman threatens the dark king who lays claim to Arthur's Round Table; by the author who also writes as Sherrilyn Kenyon.		 	 	14	3	THE FIVE PEOPLE YOU MEET IN HEAVEN, by Mitch Albom. (Hyperion, $12.) An old man who died trying to rescue a girl finds all is explained in the afterlife.		 	 	15*	82	THE KITE RUNNER, by Khaled Hosseini. (Riverhead, $15.95 and $14.) An Afghan-American returns to Kabul to learn how his childhood friend has fared under the Taliban.		 	 		Weeks			 	 	This	On			 	 	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	1	11	NIGHT, by Elie Wiesel. (Hill & Wang, $9.) A new translation of an account of the horrors of Auschwitz and Buchenwald, first published in English in 1960.		 	 	2	59	IN COLD BLOOD, by Truman Capote. (Vintage, $14.) A murder in Kansas in 1959 and its consequences.		 	 	3	4	THE COVENANT WITH BLACK AMERICA. (Third World, $12.) Essays aimed at improving life for African-Americans, introduced by Tavis Smiley.		 	 	4	28	A MILLION LITTLE PIECES, by James Frey. (Anchor, $14.95.) Both author and publisher acknowledge that this memoir contains numerous fabrications. 		 	 	5	12	THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Scribner, $14.) The author recalls a bizarre childhood during which she and her siblings were constantly moved from one bleak place to another.		 	 	6	86	THE TIPPING POINT, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $14.95.) A journalist's study of social epidemics, otherwise known as fads.		 	 	7	29	HOLY BLOOD, HOLY GRAIL, by Michael Baigent, Richard Leigh and Henry Lincoln. (Delta, $15; Dell, $7.99.) Extraordinary conclusions about the lineage of Christ, based upon documents uncovered by the BBC.		 	 	8	14	THREE WEEKS WITH MY BROTHER, by Nicholas Sparks and Micah Sparks. (Warner, $13.95.) The novelist and his sibling describe theirworld trip. 		 	 	9	15	COLLAPSE, by Jared Diamond. (Penguin, $17.) A historical investigation into why some societies succeed while others fail.		 	 	10*	111	THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY, by Erik Larson. (Vintage, $14.95.) The tale of a great architect and a serial killer, who were linked by the Chicago World's Fair of 1893.		 	 	11	187	GUNS, GERMS, AND STEEL, by Jared Diamond. (Norton, $16.95.) An argument that Western dominance is due to geographical advantages.		 	 	12	12	CONFESSIONS OF AN ECONOMIC HIT MAN, by John Perkins. (Plume, $15.) A former employee of an international consulting firm denounces the American global empire and its ''corporatocracy.''		 	 	13	12	ANIMALS IN TRANSLATION, by Temple Grandin and Catherine Johnson. (Harvest/Harcourt, $15.) How autism can help lead to a better understanding of the brains, emotions and talents of animals.		 	 	14	1	GARLIC AND SAPPHIRES, by Ruth Reichl. (Penguin, $15.) The editor in chief of Gourmet relives her days as the restaurant critic of The New York Times.		 	 	15*	1	A LOTUS GROWS IN THE MUD, by Goldie Hawn with Wendy Holden. (Berkley, $15.) A memoir by the Hollywood actress.		 	 		Weeks			 	 	This	On			 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous: Hardcover		 	 	1	1	RULE #1, by Phil Town. (Crown, $25.) A guide to making money on the stock market. 		 	 	2	5	INSPIRATION, by Wayne W. Dyer. (Hay House, $24.95.) Help in answering the question ''Why am I here?''		 	 	3	168	THE PURPOSE-DRIVEN LIFE, by Rick Warren. (Zondervan, $19.99.) The meaning of life through God. ()		 	 	4	24	FRENCH WOMEN DON'T GET FAT, by Mireille Guiliano. (Knopf, $22.) The secrets of French women, who enjoy food and wine while staying slim.		 	 	5	38	NATURAL CURES ''THEY'' DON'T WANT YOU TO KNOW ABOUT, by Kevin Trudeau. (Alliance Publishing Group, $29.95.) Remedies that do not include drugs or surgery. ()		 	 		Weeks			 	 	This	On			 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous: Paperback		 	 	1	22	365: NO REPEATS, by Rachael Ray. (Clarkson Potter, $19.95.) A year's worth of dinner recipes from the Food Network host.		 	 	2	272	RICH DAD, POOR DAD, by Robert T. Kiyosaki with Sharon L. Lechter. (Warner, $16.95.) Teaching one's children how to get rich and stay rich. () 		 	 	3	44	THE SOUTH BEACH DIET, by Arthur Agatston. (St. Martin's, $14.95 and $7.99.) A weight-loss plan devised by a Miami cardiologist.		 	 	4	259	WHAT TO EXPECT WHEN YOU'RE EXPECting, by Heidi Murkoff, Arlene Eisenberg and Sandee Hathaway. (Workman, $13.95.) For parents-to-be. ()		 	 	5	11	THE BIGGEST LOSER, by Maggie Greenwood-Robinson et al. (Rodale, $18.95.) A diet and exercise program adapted from the weight-loss reality TV show.		 	 	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended April 1, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 60,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MURDER (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); WRITERS (89%); BESTSELLERS (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%); WOMEN (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); FORENSICS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); TALIBAN (65%); LAWYERS (65%); PSYCHOLOGY (64%); RELIGION (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: DAN BROWN (89%); MITCH ALBOM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (72%) UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (72%); ARCTIC (70%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



332 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: A CITIZEN'S CALENDAR

 BODY:
A selective listing of state, county and local government events across New Jersey this week. (All dates and times subject to change.) Items should be submitted by mail at least three weeks in advance to the New Jersey Op-Ed Page, The New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y. 10036, or by e-mail to njcivic@nytimes.com. 


STATE OF NEW JERSEY

Ewing Township Commission on Radiation Protection meeting, April 19 at 9:30 a.m. Large conference room, 33 Arctic Parkway. (609) 984-5636.

haddonfield Seminar on Australian trade opportunities, presented by the Office of International Trade and Protocol of the New Jersey Commerce, Economic Growth and Tourism Commission, April 19 at 9 a.m. Gatti & Associates, 44 Tanner Street. (609) 777-4168.

newark Victims of crime compensation hearing, April 19 at 10 a.m. 50 Park Place, sixth floor. (973) 648-4076.

stockton Delaware and Raritan Canal Commission meeting, April 19 at 10 a.m. Canal Commission Headquarters, 33 Risler Street. (609) 397-2000.

trenton Board of Education hearing, April 19 at 1 p.m. 100 Riverview Plaza. (609) 292-1126.

Trenton State Mosquito Control Commission meeting, April 18 at 10 a.m. Division of Fish and Wildlife, 501 East State Street, third-floor conference room. (609) 292-3649.

Bergen County

teaneck Council meeting, April 17 at 8 p.m. Council chambers, 818 Teaneck Road. (201) 837-4811.

tenafly Board of Health meeting, April 20 at 7:30 p.m. 100 Riveredge Road. (201) 568-6100.

tenafly Environment Commission meeting, April 20 at 7 p.m. 100 Riveredge Road. (201) 568-6100.

ESSEX COUNTY

newark Board of Chosen Freeholders conference meeting, April 20 at 7 p.m. Room 506, Hall of Records. (973) 621-4492.

south orange Board of Health meeting, April 20 at 7:30 p.m. Village Hall, 101 South Orange Avenue. (973) 378-7715.

south orange Energy Policies and Studies Committee, April 19 at 8:15 a.m. Village Hall, 101 South Orange Avenue. (973) 378-7715.

verona Town Council meeting, April 17 at 7 p.m. Civic Center, 600 Bloomfield Avenue. (973) 239-3220.

Hudson County

bayonne Zoning Board meeting, April 17 at 6 p.m. 630 Avenue C. (201) 858-6182.

jersey city Planning Board meeting, April 19 at 6:30 p.m. 567 Pavonia Avenue. (201) 547-5010.

HUNTERDON COUNTY

flemington Agriculture Development Board, April 13 at 8 p.m. Planning Board Meeting Room, first floor, Building 1, Route 12, County Complex. (908) 788-1490.

flemington Planning Board meeting, April 13 at 8:15 p.m. Planning Board Meeting Room 1, Building 3, Route 12, County Complex. (908) 788-1490.

mercer county

princeton Regional Planning Board, April 20 at 7:30 p.m. 400 Witherspoon Street. (609) 924-5366.

middlesex county

north brunswick Zoning Board meeting, April 18 at 7 p.m. Municipal Building, 710 Hermann Road. (732) 247-0922, ext 440.

MORRIS COUNTY

hanover Mosquito Extermination Commission, April 18 at 8 p.m. Commission office, Highview Avenue, Cedar Knolls. (973) 538-3200.

morristown Senior Citizen and Disabled Residents Transportation Advisory Committee meeting, April 20 at 1:30 p.m. 30 Schuyler Place, fourth floor conference room. (973) 285-6858.

morristown Youth Services Advisory Committee, April 20 at 2 p.m. Human Services Building, 340 West Hanover Avenue, ground-floor conference room. (973)-285-6864.

Randolph County College Board of Trustees, April 19 at 7 p.m. County College, Henderson Hall, Room 102B, Route 10 and Center Grove Road. (973) 328-5000.

PASSAIC COUNTY

passaic Board of Chosen Freeholders and Department of Senior Services offer enrollment for Medicare Part D for adults 50 years and over. Call to schedule an appointment through May 1. (973) 881-4000.

West Paterson Board of Education election, April 18, polls open from 3 p.m. to 9 p.m. Fire Company 1, Providence and West 35th Street; Beatrice Gilmore School, 1075 McBride Avenue; First Aid Squad Headquarters, corner of Rose Place and Mount Pleasant Avenue; Charles Olbon School, Lincoln Lane; Boys and Girls Club, Memorial Drive. (973) 684-0331.

west paterson Health and Senior Services Committee, April 19 at 6 p.m. Mayor's Conference Room, Municipal Building, 5 Brophy Lane. (973) 345-8110.

UNION COUNTY

mountainside Lecture on New Jersey's endangered species, sponsored by Board of Chosen Freeholders, April 20 at 7:30 p.m. For adults 18 and over. $8 for residents of Union County, $10 for nonresidents. Trailside Nature and Science Center, 452 New Providence Road. (908) 789-3670.

plainfield County History Grant Program workshop for nonprofit groups on how to apply for a history grant, April 18 at 7 p.m. Lower level of Plainfield Library, 800 Park Avenue. Registration required. (908) 558-2550.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ZONING (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (76%); PORT AUTHORITIES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); WILDLIFE (71%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (70%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (69%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (66%); CITIES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



333 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; 3 Perspectives On Immigration, From the Inside: The Employer; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: Standing Behind His Workers

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 15 

 BODY:
Three voices. Three people, each with a small piece of the swirling story of illegal immigration in the United States, cannot answer the tangled questions that have washed over politics recently with a sudden, jolting wave.
 Do 11 million illegal immigrants pose an economic question for the nation, or a political one? Is the debate about the jobs that American-born resident will not do, or the jobs being taken from them? Is it about enforcing rules, or acknowledging rights?
 Miguel A. Carvajal parks cars for a living in a garage in Manhattan and hopes for something better. Myles Gladstone employs immigrants and wants the best for them -- and for his construction company near Washington, D.C. Waldo Benavidez sits in a low-income neighborhood in Denver and watches with anxiety and anger at the fate of the American poor who he thinks are being hurt by immigrants. He wants the border closed. 
 Each comes from a different place and sees a different picture. They disagree not just about what should happen in Congress and in the state capitals that are wrestling with immigration legislation, but even about where to start.
 Myles Gladstone is a burly, silver-haired businessman who spends most days in a hard hat, striding through crushed gravel at construction sites, greeting workers and fielding complaints.
 But on Monday, Mr. Gladstone, 59, who typically spends his free time collecting antique jukeboxes for his home in Potomac, an affluent Maryland suburb, was caught up in the political ferment sweeping the nation as he joined the throngs of immigrants demonstrating here. He said he could not afford to simply stand by.
 As the vice president for human resources of Miller & Long, a regional concrete construction company, Mr. Gladstone is responsible for a mainly immigrant work force. Nearly 90 percent of the company's 3,000 employees are immigrants, mostly from El Salvador, he said. And the tough border security bill passed by the House in December, which would make illegal immigration a felony, could disrupt his company's operations if it becomes law.
 So when he heard about the demonstration to protest the legislation, Mr. Gladstone and other company officials decided to offer employees a day of unpaid leave to attend the rally and push for a bill that would legalize illegal immigrants. To show additional support, he attended the protest himself. 
 ''We are indebted to the work ethic they bring us,'' Mr. Gladstone said. ''Without them, Miller & Long would not be as successful, and I would not be as successful.''
 Mr. Gladstone is one of many ordinary people who have found their daily lives touched by the fervent immigration debate. On Monday, operations at many of Miller & Long's projects around the region were virtually shut down because about 1,500 workers decided to attend the demonstration.
 Mr. Gladstone is more keenly attuned than ever to the legislative machinations in Congress and the impact on his workers, who pepper him with questions about the future. 
 ''They ask me, 'What's going to happen to us? What's going to happen to our families?' '' he said. ''My answer is, 'I don't know.' '' 
 Mr. Gladstone, a genial manager who wears a BlackBerry on his hip, knows which employees have new babies, which have sick relatives and which prefer to discuss their problems by telephone instead of face to face. But like many businessmen with largely immigrant work forces, he said he did not know whether his employees were illegal immigrants or whether they had relatives who were here illegally. 
 Mr. Gladstone said the workers all claimed to be here legally and had all presented documentation to prove they were authorized to work in the United States. But he also knows there is a growing industry in counterfeit documents, and he and other employers cannot help but view the tough immigration measures under consideration in Congress with unease. 
 Such concerns have become more pressing as the broad demographic shifts of the past 20 years have trickled down to the workplace. 
 In 1947, when Miller & Long was formed, its employees were overwhelmingly white or black and born in the United States, according to Nicholas G. Paleologos, the company's president.
 By 1981, the work force was 50 percent Hispanic. That was the year Mr. Paleologos decided to hire Mr. Gladstone, then a Spanish teacher at a private school, as a part-time translator. 
 ''We could see the way our industry was headed,'' Mr. Paleologos said.
 As the numbers of immigrant workers surged, Mr. Gladstone climbed through the company ranks, serving as part supervisor and part social worker. Since a powerful earthquake hit El Salvador in 2001, Mr. Gladstone has traveled to the country 21 times to distribute food and clothing to the families of employees and to oversee the construction of a health clinic.
 Mr. Gladstone was in El Salvador nearly three weeks ago when the Senate Judiciary Committee voted to legalize the roughly 11 million people believed to be living illegally in this country. ''People down there thought a law had passed,'' Mr. Gladstone said. ''I told them, 'Let's not celebrate yet.' '' 
 In fact, the Senate failed to pass any immigration legislation amid partisan bickering over parliamentary procedures. And as Mr. Gladstone and Mr. Paleologos stood this week in the shadow of a condominium project in Arlington, Va., they said their concerns about the future had persuaded them to allow their workers to protest. 
 ''They're strong in their numbers, and they certainly demonstrated that in their effort to tell our political leaders that there has got to be a rational approach to immigration reform,'' Mr. Paleologos said. 
 Pablo Catin, a 48-year-old carpenter from Nicaragua, said he and other workers were relieved that Miller & Long had given them permission to protest, particularly since some workers at other companies had been fired after participating in the demonstrations. 
 ''We didn't have to worry about that,'' Mr. Catin said. ''They're supporting us.''
 Mr. Gladstone, whose grandparents immigrated from Poland, said he kept silent at the rally as his workers sang, chanted and waved flags. But he said he had been moved by the sight of tens of thousands of immigrants yearning to become Americans.
 ''Standing there with everybody saying the Pledge of Allegiance, that was one of those tingly moments,'' he said. ''Many people didn't understand all the words, but they understood the sentiment.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: MYLES GLADSTONE -- Vice President at a construction company, right, with Nicholas G. Paleologos (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); ETHICS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); HUMAN RESOURCES (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); FELONIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



334 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-12

Shifting Role for Troops in Iraq
American soldiers in Iraq are shifting roles from waging war to keeping the peace between Shiites and Sunnis in an environment of increasing sectarian violence. 1

Dozens Killed in Afghanistan 

Afghan security forces fought a group of Taliban rebels in a battle that ran through several villages in southern Afghanistan, officials said. 12

Jailed Russian Tycoon Attacked
Mikhail Khodorkovsky, the oil tycoon jailed in a Siberian prison colony, was slashed in the face as he slept, his lawyers said, raising new questions about his safety there. 8

Chad Threatens to Cut Oil
Chad threatened to cut off its flow of oil unless the World Bank releases funds frozen in a dispute over how the government should use its oil revenues. 4

Japan's Growing Economic Gap
Deregulation, privatization and tax breaks for the rich have helped lift Japan's economy to a swift recovery after more than a decade of fitful starts. But the policies have opened wide gaps between the rich and the poor. 1

NATIONAL 14-24

Medicaid for Citizens Only
More than 50 million Medicaid recipients will soon have to produce documents to prove that they are United States citizens, and everyone who applies for coverage after June 30 will have to show similar documents under a new federal law. 1

Challenging Rumsfeld's Critics
The Defense Department has issued a memorandum to former military commanders and analysts that offers a direct challenge to the criticisms made by retired generals about Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld. 1

Custody Battles From Katrina
For some families, already torn apart by separation and divorce, the fallout from Hurricane Katrina has been especially damaging, producing new battles over child custody and and division of assets. 1

Tax Break Expires
Unless Congress takes action, one in four families with children will incur up to $3,640 in additional federal income tax next April. Few of them realize that their taxes are rising, because Congress did not vote to raise taxes. Instead, Congress let a tax break expire. 24

OBITUARIES 32-33

Muriel Spark
The novelist known for her finely polished, darkly comic prose and for the unforgettable Miss Jean Brodie, one of the most sinister characters in modern fiction, she was 88. 32

NEW YORK/REGION 27-31

New York, City of Courtesy
New York City, whose residents have long been scorned for churlish behavior, is now being praised for adopting rules and laws that govern personal conduct, making it an unlikely model for other cities legislating courtesy and decorum. 1

Chess 31
Weather 16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); FAMILY (88%); TAX LAW (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TALIBAN (78%); PRISONS (77%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); CHILDREN (75%); MEDICAID (74%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (74%); INCOME TAX (74%); LAWYERS (72%); LEGISLATION (70%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); HURRICANES (64%); HURRICANE KATRINA (64%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (64%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (60%); WRITERS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



335 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
LANGSTAFF, ELLIOT KENNEDY

 BODY:
 LANGSTAFF--Elliot Kennedy, distinguished international businessman and executive recruiter, died March 11, 2006 in Adamstown, Maryland. He suffered from Parkinson's disease and lung cancer. He was 83. Kennedy Langstaff's career included work in both government service and the private sector. 
In his early career, he was involved in the post-Marshall Plan reconstruction of Europe, and later focused on enabling third-world countries in Asia and Africa to establish basic infrastructure. In his last two decades of professional life, Langstaff was a partner with Ward Howell International, Inc. In 1955, Langstaff joined the American Overseas Finance Company. It was acquired in 1962 by International Basic Economy Corp. (IBEC), a company founded by Nelson Rockefeller. Serving as Regional Manager and Vice President -Greece, Middle East and Africa for Arbor Acres Farm, Inc., he established the first major poultry breeding joint venture operations, introducing inexpensive protein in India, Pakistan, Zimbabwe, Zambia, and Lebanon for the first time. From 1972-1989, Langstaff was a partner with Ward Howell International, Inc. in New York, where he conducted executive searches for clients in agribusiness, banking, health care, manufacturing, higher education and non-profit organizations. Born in 1923 in New York, Langstaff attended Grace Church Choir School and was a professional singer by age nine as an original member of the Bretton Woods Boy Singers of New Hampshire. His modest earnings were used to help support his family during the Great Depression. He went on to attend The Choate School in Wallingford, CT on a music scholarship where he graduated in 1940. In 1947 he graduated as a member of the Harvard class of 1944, having enlisted in the United States Army where he served in the Infantry as a First Lieutenant in the Pacific Theatre in World War II. In 1949, he received his MBA from the Harvard School of Business. Kennedy Langstaff was a Trustee or Director of The American Farm School, the Overseas Education Fund, and the Harvard Alumni Association. He was President of the Environmental Council of Stamford, CT, and served as a volunteer for the International Executive Service Corps. A member of the national Advisory Committee of Revels, Inc. he helped found the New York Revels, a community-based music and performing arts organization. Langstaff served as a member of the Board of Managers of the Harvard Club, and Chairman of the Admissions Committee. The son of Bridgewater Meredith Langstaff and Esther Boardman Langstaff of Brooklyn Heights, New York. He is survived by his wife of fifty-three years, Percy Lee Langstaff, of Stamford, Connecticut; three children: David Langstaff and Lee Langstaff, both of Comus, Maryland; Maxim Langstaff of Honey Brook, Pennsylvania; and four grandchildren. His wife, Percy, worked with Margaret Mead, and served as President of the League of Women Voters of the State of Connecticut, and is currently President of the Stamford Land Conservation Trust. Kennedy Langstaff lost his brother, renowned author, concert and recording artist John Langstaff last December. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (87%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (87%); MUSIC (87%); WORLD WAR II (86%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); ARMIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (75%); EDUCATION FUNDING (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); LUNG CANCER (73%); CANCER (73%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (71%); ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (71%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (70%); JOINT VENTURES (70%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (68%); POULTRY (68%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (67%); GREAT DEPRESSION (64%); ALUMNI (64%); ARMED FORCES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HOWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (91%); ARBOR ACRES FARM INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (91%); NAICS112320 BROILERS & OTHER MEAT TYPE CHICKEN PRODUCTION (69%); SIC0251 BROILER, FRYER, & ROASTER CHICKENS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (93%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ZAMBIA (79%); INDIA (79%); LEBANON (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); GREECE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



336 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 65 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
ROSENBERG, ALEXANDER

 BODY:
ROSENBERG--Alexander. Age 92, September 26, 1913 April 12, 2006. Alexander, a US Army Captain landed on Utah Beach, with his company, on the 6th of June 1944. Alexander served as a manager with New York State Unemployment until his retirement in 1971. Predeceased by his wife Fannie, Alexander is survived by his cousin Irving Sabo and his nieces Carol Gramacy, Hedy Cavalier and Amy Kaplan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); ARMIES (85%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



337 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Style Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: Quest for a Homeland Gains a World Stage

BYLINE: By DAVID KAUFMAN

 BODY:
ON a warm afternoon in early March Eddie Butler glided through the lobby of the Tel Aviv Hilton like a modern-day king of Israel. Pausing repeatedly for hugs and high-fives, Mr. Butler radiated an aura of ubiquitous familiarity that comes with being a very big pop star in a very small country. On March 15 Mr. Butler, 34, was chosen to represent Israel in this year's Eurovision contest: the kitschy, annual, pan-European extravaganza in which viewers will crown the region's best pop song. 
 On May 20 Mr. Butler will be in Athens for Eurovision's finale as the great hope of the entire Jewish nation.
With his cocoa-colored skin and fade of tight curls, Mr. Butler clearly isn't a typical Israeli. Despite being born and raised in Israel, many would argue he's not even Jewish. Mr. Butler is a member of the Black Hebrews, or the African Hebrew Israelites as they call themselves, a 2,000-strong community in the Negev desert originally from the blighted South Side of Chicago. Led by Ben Carter, a former factory worker who changed his name to Ben Ammi Ben Israel, the original group of about 350 arrived in Israel in 1969 claiming to be descended from one of ancient Judaism's lost tribes. 
 Ethnically African-American as well as polygamists and vegans, the Black Hebrews have never been formally recognized as Jews by Israel's religious authorities and have lived since arrival in a southern city, Dimona, an impoverished development town and site of Israel's not-so-secret ''secret'' nuclear weapons program. 
 ''Israel is my home, my nation, but we've always been treated like outsiders,'' Mr. Butler said. ''Israelis didn't want to accept us, but we've come closer and closer to the day they will.''
 As a professional pop artist who has been performing in Israel since he was 18, Mr. Butler has long been bringing the cause of his people to public light. In 1999, as part of a racially diverse group called Eden, he made his first appearance in the Eurovision contest, though in that round he was chosen to compete by judges, not fellow Israelis, as he was last month. 
 This year, along with his manager, two publicists and four back-up singers, Mr. Butler leaves for Athens as a soloist armed with ''Ze Hazman'' (''This Is the Time''), a soulful, English-Hebrew anthem he wrote that reflects the influence of his years singing in the Black Hebrews' gospel-style New Jerusalem Fire Choir when he was a boy. Mr. Butler's Afro-Judeo harmonies will be pitted in Athens against 37 equally ambitious contestants, all hoping Eurovision will do for them what it did for veterans like Abba and Celine Dion.
 Even if Mr. Butler comes home empty-handed, his performance -- with its televised audience of more than 120 million -- will be the first time the spotlight has shined on a single Black Hebrew. Separated by a remote desert location and unorthodox lifestyle, the group has long been a controversial presence in Israel, seen by some as a cult. 
 ''For years we struggled,'' said Mr. Butler in cadences more suggestive of Detroit than Dimona. ''For everything from feeding ourselves to being recognized as Jews.''
 While that struggle remains far from over, the Black Hebrews are slowly achieving a semblance of Israeli cultural normalcy. Aided by powerful friends abroad like the Rev. Jesse Jackson and a stream of high-profile visitors -- including an infamous, theatrics-filled 2003 tour by Whitney Houston and Bobby Brown -- the community now has its own school, operates a successful tofu factory and owns a string of vegan restaurants in Israel and the United States. 
 In 2003 Black Hebrews were granted permanent residency status by the Israeli government. In addition to leading to the possibility of permanent citizenship, that also means that Black Hebrews must serve in the Israeli army. 
 ''The Black Hebrews add to the richness and diversity of all of Israel,'' observed Mr. Jackson, who has lobbied on their behalf with American Jewish leaders. 
 Even though Israel isn't exactly in Europe, Eurovision has evolved over time into a quaint, feel-good respite from the harsh realities of everyday Israeli life, be they the recent arrival of Avian flu or the long-term threat of Hamas terror.
 Israel also has a history of choosing Eurovision candidates who are unlikely springboards for progressive social causes. The most progressive of them all is easily Dana International, a postoperative male-to-female transsexual who represented Israel in Birmingham, England, in 1998. Her song, the aptly named ''Diva,'' was a cheesy, Kylie Minogue-style techno-ditty that -- to the horror of Israel's ultra-Orthodox right and the delight of its pan-sexual left -- took home first prize and helped to shed light on an otherwise hidden population. Would a Butler victory at Eurovision do the same for the Black Hebrews? 
 ''At the very least it will raise awareness of their economic and social situation,'' said Yuval Niv, culture writer at Yedioth Ahronoth, the daily newspaper. ''But a community so small will probably never really be part of the mainstream agenda.''
 On the morning before Ehud Olmert's recent election as Israeli prime minister, Mr. Butler was back in Dimona showing reporters around the Black Hebrews' compound, where he first began to sing along with his 11 brothers and sister. As he sat between his mother, Kara Liah, and his father's three other wives -- whom he also calls mother, ima in Hebrew -- Mr. Butler began to give a human face to the world he left more than a decade ago to pursue his dreams of musical stardom.
 The compound, now officially Kibbutz Shomrei HaShalom (Protectors of Peace), is almost otherworldly in its cultural inclusiveness. Clad in free-flowing, brightly-colored robes and headdresses, the adults look like the 60's-era pan-African activists many once were, while their hundreds of children are dressed in neat blue Israeli school uniforms. All speak a mixture of Hebrew and English with varying accents, depending on their age and place of birth.
 Later that day in Tel Aviv, Mr. Butler was backstage at a special election-night taping of the Dudu Topaz show (a sort of low-rent Israeli Jay Leno) and one of the numerous media appearances he'll make in the coming weeks. Stylishly attired and glowing with the confidence of a man who knows he has already beaten the odds, Mr. Butler effortlessly outshined the rest of the night's guests -- B-list actors, models and the Israeli famous-for-being-famous.
 With his Israeli girlfriend and two Israel-born children cheering him on, Mr. Butler brought the crowd to its feet with yet another rendition of ''Ze Hazman,'' the song he'll soon sing for a homeland that may never fully embrace him as one of its own. Still, as chants of ''Eddie, Eddie, Eddie'' filled the studio, it was as if the audience -- and perhaps all of Israel -- can't get enough of Eddie Butler. ''It's like winning 'American Idol,' he said of the endless adoration. ''I feel like Ruben Studdard or Kelly Clarkson.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: SEEKING FAITH -- Mr. Butler at a synagogue near Tel Aviv.
 SEEKING SUCCESS -- Eddie Butler, a member of the Black Hebrew group that has settled in Israel, works on a song with Amit Tzah. (Photographs by Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); POP & ROCK (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); RELIGION (88%); CELEBRITIES (77%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); POLYGAMY (65%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (51%); MEAT FREE DIETS (50%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (72%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (90%) ISRAEL (98%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



338 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; THEATER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1660 words

HEADLINE: The Return of the Chocolate-Covered Herring

BYLINE: By TED MERWIN. 
Ted Merwin, theater critic for The Jewish Week, is the author of ''In Their Own Image: New York Jews in Jazz Age Popular Culture.''

 BODY:
''ONE is born with talent or with genius,'' the playwright Clifford Odets wrote in 1940, ''but one makes himself an artist. Nothing is more difficult than this process the creative road is strewn with wrecks, a veritable junk yard of old rusted bodies.'' 
 Odets, born to an immigrant Jewish family in Philadelphia in 1906, knew from personal experience. He shot to fame in the 1930's on the basis of two fiery left-wing plays, ''Waiting for Lefty'' and ''Awake and Sing!'' that summed up the nation's restless, distraught mood during the Great Depression. Critics hailed him as the country's ''most promising playwright'' and the ''proletarian Jesus.'' In 1938, he was even featured on the cover of Time magazine. 
Yet by the 1950's, his reputation was in decline, tarnished by his perceived sellout to Hollywood and his notorious capitulation to the House Un-American Activities Committee. He went on from his early success -- at one point he had no fewer than three plays running simultaneously on Broadway -- to write 10 more, including ''Golden Boy,'' ''Rocket to the Moon'' and ''The Country Wife'' and a number of screenplays, including the 1957 film noir masterpiece ''Sweet Smell of Success.'' Yet his plays have received few productions over the last half-century. When ''Waiting for Lefty'' was revived by the Blue Light Theater Company in 1997 in a production directed by actress Joanne Woodward and starring Marisa Tomei, the article in The New York Times was headlined ''Championing Odets, Unfashionable as That Is.'' 
 In this year of his centennial, Odets can once again be found on many stages, and once again, critics and scholars are debating his stature. 
 Andre Bishop, artistic director of Lincoln Center Theater -- which is presenting ''Awake and Sing!'' -- thinks Odets is overdue for rediscovery as ''up there'' with the 20th century's greatest American playwrights. Lincoln Center's production, directed by Bartlett Sher and starring Zoe Wanamaker and Ben Gazzara, opens on Monday at the Belasco, the same playhouse where it was originally staged by the legendary Group Theater. To Mr. Bishop, Odets's insistence on the irrepressible dignity of the individual is particularly relevant today. 
 An opposing view is articulated by Robert Brustein, a former dean of Yale University's School of Drama who now teaches at Harvard. He recalled acting in 1948 in what he called a ''subterranean'' production of ''Awake and Sing!'' at Yale, at a time when the rest of the drama school was doing older English plays. But while Mr. Brustein initially viewed Odets as an intensely ''dramatic, exciting and verbally electric playwright,'' he now compares his plays to vintage movies that eventually become ''yellow-looking and crackly sounding.'' Odets' poetic language, he suggested, now seems ''artificial,'' his ''ringing'' political pronouncements a little shrill and propagandistic.
 Some critics have contended that Arthur Miller was indebted to Odets for his themes about the individual being crushed by impersonal social forces, but Miller declined to admit this influence. He also found Odets, at least after ''Waiting for Lefty,'' avoiding explosive confrontations between his characters thus ''raising conflicts which he never engages in.''
 Still, there is little doubt that Odets's influence on American culture has been immense. At roughly the same time that William Faulkner, John Steinbeck and Thomas Wolfe were publishing their first major novels, Odets enabled the Group to create the first truly indigenous American theater. When Lee Strasberg, Harold Clurman and Cheryl Crawford formed the company, little did they know that Odets, who was one of their less talented young actors, would become their in-house playwright. 
 Nor could they have foreseen that ''Waiting for Lefty,'' his 1935 one-act play about a taxi drivers' strike, would explode like a depth charge in the audience; in his autobiography, Elia Kazan, who was one of the actors, called the rousing 28 curtain calls ''the most overwhelming reception I've ever heard in the theater.'' 
 ''Waiting for Lefty,'' which was immediately taken up by more than 100 theater groups throughout the country, marked a shift in American culture that has been compared to the Woodstock Festival of 1969; it became the rallying cry of a generation. When Odets wrote ''Awake and Sing,'' the story of a lower middle-class Jewish family in the Bronx, he achieved what Laurence Maslon, who teaches at New York University's graduate acting program, has called the ''most impressive full-length playwriting debut in Broadway history'' with the possible exception of Tennessee Williams's ''Glass Menagerie.'' 
 In The New Yorker last year, John Lahr focused on Odets's original use of language, saying his ''lumpen lyricism'' should be recognized as the ''first attempts to break the shackles of naturalism'' in American drama. Mr. Lahr found strong traces of the influence of Odets's language on playwrights as diverse as Williams and David Mamet.
 Indeed, some scenes of ''Awake and Sing,'' which started as a play about Beethoven until Odets decided that he should write about something closer to home, sound almost like verbal fugues in their depth of emotion and polyphonic use of dialogue. In his review of the original production for The Times, Brooks Atkinson called the play ''packed with noisy, lunging humanity.'' 
 The main character, Ralph (played by Pablo Schrieber in the Lincoln Center production) who yearns to escape both the financial and spiritual poverty of his suffocating family life moans, ''Every other day, to sit around with blues and mud in your mouth.'' Much of Odets's language is inflected by Yiddish, both in its word order and use of non sequiturs, wisecrack and innuendo. The original version of ''Awake and Sing!'' was entitled ''I've Got the Blues'' and it contained a significant number of Yiddish expressions, most of which were excised by the Group Theater on the grounds that they made the play too ethnic
 ''Awake and Sing!'' was a revelation to Jewish audience members in particular, who were accustomed to seeing Jews presented as crude, comic stereotypes in the mainstream theater. The critic Alfred Kazin exulted that seeing the actors on the Belasco stage, where everyone was ''furious, kicking, alive,'' was like watching his ''mother and father and uncles and aunts occupying the stage by as much right as if they were Hamlet and Lear.'' 
 Odets's biographer, the psychoanalyst Margaret Brenman-Gibson, found that Odets's home life was almost unendurable, with an abusive, philandering father and a weak, unprotective mother. Still, he managed to infuse his characters' expressions of self-pity with a heavy, often hilarious dose of irony. Mr. Bishop recalls hearing gales of laughter while listening to a pirated recording of the Group Theater performing ''Golden Boy.''
 With ''Paradise Lost'' in 1935, his sprawling, deliberately ''de-Jewished'' portrait of a crumbling middle-class family, Odets bid to be the John Dos Passos of the American stage. But critics complained that Odets's endings, in which characters decide to fight for a better world -- one that is not ''printed on dollar bills'' as Odets puts it in ''Awake and Sing!''-- were tacked on and that Odets himself, who moved to Hollywood and lived life in high style, had lost touch with his own roots. ''Odets, where is thy sting?,'' Frank Nugent said in The Times.
 He redeemed himself in 1937 with ''Golden Boy,'' a play about an Italian-American boxer who is destroyed by the sleazy agents, promoters and gamblers who take over his career. Many viewed the play as an allegory for Odets's own struggles with fame and fortune, his futile search for what he called a ''chocolate-covered herring,'' sweet on the outside and authentically Jewish on the inside. 
 Odets never completely adjusted to the change in the national mood that accompanied renewed economic prosperity. And he never forgave himself for giving the McCarthy committee the names of Communist Party sympathizers in 1954. He died of stomach cancer 10 years later, having joined to some extent the materialistic ''junkyard'' that he foresaw in 1940 as trashing his genius. Given the long list of Odets productions this year, he might at least be comforted to know that his work escaped the same fate. 

Awake and Sing
BELASCO THEATER
Opens Monday, through June 11; 111 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200.

Clifford Notes
These events will take place in connection with the Odets centennial:
 Lang College of the New School for Liberal Arts will celebrate its own 20th anniversary by presenting Cecilia Rubino's documentary theater piece, ''The Odets Project,'' with music by Elizabeth Swados. Thursday and Friday at 8 p.m. at Wollman Hall, 65 West 11th Street, Greenwich Village; (212) 229-5353.
 The Stella Adler Studio will produce the inaugural Harold Clurman Festival of the Arts. The weekend will include jazz and classical concerts, poetry readings, play readings and a symposium about Clurman's life and work. David Amram, Derek Walcott, Harold Bloom, Elaine Stritch, Zoe Caldwell and Edward Albee will be among the participants. Friday, May 5, to Monday, May 8, at 31 West 27th Street, Chelsea; (212) 689-0087. 
 The City University of New York Graduate Center, in collaboration with the Center for Jewish History, will hold a daylong celebration of Odets featuring both scholars and theater artists that will include film screenings, panel discussions and readings. Monday, June 5 at 365 Fifth Avenue, at 34th Street; (212) 817-1860.
 The New York Public Library for the Performing Arts at Lincoln Center, which holds the playwright's papers, will present a series of Odets-inspired readings and recitals in May and June, including a performance on Monday, June 12, of the Richard Rodgers musical, ''Two by Two,'' which was based on Odets's biblically inspired play, ''The Flowering Peach''; (212) 642-0142.


CORRECTION-DATE: April 23, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the career of Clifford Odets misstated the title of one of his plays. It was ''The Country Girl,'' not ''The Country Wife.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: At right, Clifford Odets in a photograph from the early 1960's. Below, a new production of ''Awake and Sing!'' features Ben Gazzara. (Photo by Julian Wasser/Time & Life Pictures/Getty Images)
(Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. 6)
 Zoe Wanamaker and Richard Topol in Odets's ''Awake and Sing!'' (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER REVIEWS (95%); DRAMA LITERATURE (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); WRITERS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (88%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); THEATER (78%); FILM (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%); FILM GENRES (67%) Theater

ORGANIZATION: Lincoln Center Theater

PERSON: Ted Merwin; Clifford (1906-63) Odets

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



339 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; MUSIC: PLAYLIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: As the Cellos Churn and The Raps Slow to a Crawl

BYLINE: By Kelefa Sanneh

 BODY:

Rick Ross
 This big, bearded Miami rapper scored a local hit with ''Hustlin,' '' a mesmerizing ode to the underground economy. Rhyming in slow motion, he reeled off a string of boasts and jokes, declaring himself ''major league: who catching? Because I'm pitching.'' The local hit became a mixtape favorite and a club perennial, and now radio stations are picking it up, and there's a slick new video. It begins with some celebratory shots of Miami Beach; the music is cut off and the ominous star appears, accompanied by the slowed-down sample that serves as the chorus. His major-label debut album is due this summer from Slip-N-Slide and Island Def Jam. By then, this irresistible track might have moved -- in slow motion, of course -- from the margins to the mainstream.

Matson Jones
 
 Two years ago this turbulent Colorado band, led by a couple of cellists, released its strong and strange debut album, which was reissued last year. Now comes a four-song mini-album, ''The Albatross Mates for Life, but Only After a Lengthy Courtship That Can Take Up to Four Years'' (Sympathy for the Record Industry). That title is a hint: don't expect understatement. The cellists, Martina Grbac and Anna Mascorella, are also the singers; the music churns and lurches, and the lyrics are bitter and mysterious. In the first and best song, ''Exes and Ohs,'' the sawing cellos attack and retreat while the singers zero in on a single desperate and untranslatable plea: ''Carry this weight.'' By comparison, your average emo band sounds downright stoic.

Ron Don
 For a well-curated survey of recent roots reggae, look no further than ''Culture Mix 11'' (djrondon.com), a mixtape by this prolific New York D.J. The music is gentle, but virtually all the lyrics on this 44-song compilation describe a hard world; taken together, the songs sound ruthless but also somehow soothing. Anthony B's gorgeous ''Hard Round Here,'' based on a neo-traditional riddim called ''Mystic,'' fades into a slowed-down rerecording of Richie Spice's apocalyptic hit ''Earth a Run Red,'' which uses similar Rastafarian drumming. And near the end, Ron Don presents seven versions of the lilting ''Last Days'' riddim, ranging from Sizzla's frenetic ''Don't Judge'' to Morgan Heritage's smooth ''Dem Ah Run Come.''

Shawnna and Kelis
 Shawnna, a rapper signed to Ludacris's Disturbing tha Peace label, has a club hit with ''Gettin' Some.'' And Kelis, the singer and rapper who is still -- and may be forever -- best known for ''Milkshake,'' has a strutting new single (accompanied by an over-the-top video) called ''Bossy.'' What do these brash songs have in common? An unlikely collaborator: Too $hort, the Oakland hip-hop pioneer who did as much as anyone to make the word ''bitch'' -- he loves to stretch it out, as if he's savoring it -- a staple of the hip-hop vocabulary. He's sampled in the chorus of Shawnna's track, and he contributes a guest verse to Kelis's; it's funny and somehow satisfying to see that a pimp-rap godfather has suddenly become the season's must-have accessory for glamorous female stars.

Dierks Bentley
 This country singer has a charming current single, ''Settle for a Slowdown'' (Capitol Nashville), accompanied by an even more charming video. (Find it at cmt.com.) The song starts with a desperate man on an empty road, hoping to see the brake lights on his ex-lover's car, which is slowly heading toward the horizon: ''I know there's nothing stopping you now,'' he sings. ''But I'd settle for a slowdown.'' And in the video, it's all a buildup to that inevitable moment when our scruffy hero arrives, holding a guitar, at the fancy dinner party where his ex is enjoying her new friends. The conversation stops, the music stops, everyone looks at him. What's he going to do? Why, sing the chorus again, of course.

Fabolous
 This slick and underrated Brooklyn rapper has spent the past few months making the right friends (the executives at Def Jam, which has been negotiating to sign him) and the right enemies (Ma$e, who joined G-Unit last year and has accused Fabolous -- not entirely wrongly -- of borrowing his style). On the recent mixtape ''Loso's Way: Rise to Power,'' Fabolous proves that his punch-line-oriented raps are as addictive as ever. He loves to pick a polysyllabic rhyme and playfully run it into the ground: ''Please don't jump to assume/ If we hump in a room/ The next morning, we be jumping the broom/ Better find another chump for your groom/ 'Cause baby, I'm a player till I'm slumped in a tomb.'' The guest list ranges from Mariah Carey to Don Omar to Paul Wall, and one of the best moments is ''The Hitmen,'' a tough collaboration with the Lox and J-Hood. In one particularly inspired stanza, Fabolous works in sly references to his nemesis (whose real name is Mason Betha), his new record label and a certain 1990's sitcom: ''I'm def'ly/ waiting for the day Mason Beth' be/ Riding through the city and forgot to wear his Tef' T-/ I heard L. A. Reid wanna Def me/ Tell him I need a mansion in Bel Air, with a Jeffrey.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: The country singer Dierks Bentley, below, has a new single. The D.J. Ron Don, near left, and the rapper Fabolous both have new mixtapes. (Photo by Ray Amati/Getty Images)
(Photo by Marlon [Ajamu] Myrie)
 (Photo by Sam Erickson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (89%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (88%); BASEBALL (78%); POP & ROCK (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (75%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (73%) Music; Recordings (Audio); Reviews 

PERSON: Kelefa Sanneh

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (88%) FLORIDA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



340 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: The Spectacle of Labor at the Trough 

BYLINE: By ROGER LOWENSTEIN

 BODY:
ONE of the most revealing, and funniest, scenes in this expose of union corruption concerns the Mason Tenders District Council of New York, which represents workers in some of the grittiest jobs in construction. The members make good money -- $30 to $43 an hour, plus benefits. But in one job site after another in the 1980's, they were replaced by cheap unorganized labor. Where was the union?
 At least until recently, says Robert Fitch in ''Solidarity for Sale: How Corruption Destroyed the Labor Movement and Undermined America's Promise'' (PublicAffairs, $28.50), it was controlled by crime families like the Genoveses and Gambinos. The ''mobbed up'' bosses were extorting payoffs from building companies in return for letting them hire nonunion labor. 
Here's the funny part. The racket was so good, Mr. Fitch recounts, that some of the union bosses set up their own construction companies. Check out the conversation that occurred in Little Italy in 1989 (and captured on an F.B.I. wiretap) between an earnest, ordinary laborer identified as Carl, who tried to help the cause by reporting a nonunion company to labor officials, and his union field representative, one Al Soussi: 
 Carl: I give him the name of the company. He goes, ''No, it's not union, but we're gonna get it unionized in a couple of days.'' 
 Al: What was the name of the company?
 Carl: D-E-P, something like that.
 Al: D-E-P's my company, [expletive]. What're you crazy?
 Carl: No.
 Al: Yeah, that's my company. I got the shake on 'em. What're you interferin' it?
 Carl: No, I called -- 
 Al: (Yelling) Yeah, yeah, you called the delegate on me!
 Carl: How do I know?
 Al: (Shouting) Why didn't you keep your [expletive] mouth shut?
 According to Mr. Fitch, the American labor movement is shot through with rackets, corruption and union officials who are brazenly enriching themselves while utterly ignoring the plight of their members. In addition to numerous examples of mob infiltration, Mr. Fitch also cites a laundry list of cases of garden-variety theft. At District Council 37, a New York City local representing low-paid city employees, one official, Albert A. Diop, billed the union for his maid service and limousine. ''Everyone takes a little from the kitty,'' Mr. Diop had offered, in 1983, as a defense for a fellow union executive, some years before his own conviction for stealing. 
 A particularly heartless example, from the late 1960's, involved the giveaway of Thanksgiving turkeys to hard-pressed union families. The birds had been pumped full of water to increase their weight, and dozens of union chiefs had bought them (with union funds) at inflated prices, then pocketed kickbacks. Such shenanigans seem to have been regularly exposed, but as the author documents, corrupt behavior has been notoriously hard to eradicate. In particular, the struggle to truly reform the Teamsters persisted long after Jimmy Hoffa.
 The saddest feature of this saga of sweetheart contracts, rigged elections, pension raids and protection deals is the yawning gap it all exposes between union executives and the rank and file. One executive, whose salary came from dues paid by ''low-wage baggers and checkers,'' pocketed $547,000 a year in compensation.
 Mr. Fitch recounts many such examples. We have come to expect shameless avarice from corporate executives, but it would appear that labor bosses are no better.
 The author, who nourishes a nostalgia for the labor movement's early days, says the leadership of the last 50 years tolerated and encouraged a racketlike labor structure. 
 Ever since the merger of two labor groups created the A.F.L.-C.I.O. in the 1950's, he contends, unions have been more concerned with protecting turfs and keeping out rivals than expanding their base.
 ''Under the U.S. fiefdom model, the point is to find a rich territory and occupy it,'' he writes. ''Little incentive exists for the occupiers to extend the benefits of the union to low-paid outsiders.''
 Mr. Fitch clearly prefers the European model, in which trade unions have used the political process to win widespread social benefits. By contrast, he says, American unions have been mostly out for themselves. Though the A.F.L.-C.I.O. has contributed millions to the Democratic Party, the marriage has hardly borne the political fruit -- national health care, for instance -- that workers might want. A result has been steady shrinkage. Today, only 8 percent of private-sector workers carry union cards.
 Mr. Fitch plays down the familiar explanation for the decline of unions -- that in a global economy in which American workers compete against Indians and Chinese, Haitians and Hondurans, unions have lost their bargaining power. Rather, he says, union corruption ''explains why the American labor movement fares so poorly in the vital tasks unions are designed to perform.''
 I have two problems with this. Mr. Fitch admiringly cites the rise of the welfare state in Europe, with its laws mandating minimum vacation time and shortened workweeks. He does not cite the cost that Europe has paid in higher unemployment, lower growth and social stagnation. Does he really think that Americans -- even American workers -- envy the French?
 Second, although Mr. Fitch repeatedly asserts that corruption matters, he doesn't convince us that even honest unions could reverse the tide of shrinking membership. As he seems to concede toward the end, the choice facing unions today is either higher wages or more members -- not both.
 Finally, though Mr. Fitch's passion for his subject is admirable, the examples flow too fast, the chronology is lost in a jumble of forward- and backward-glancing flashes, and the prose is simply overripe. In one pagelong sequence, Mr. Fitch compares American labor bosses to Russian czars, Somali warlords, Afghan warlords and Gothic invaders in ''the seventh-century Merovingian state.'' Just what I had been thinking.
 LATER, he frets that while there are ''dozens of books in print about Egypt's pyramids,'' there is not a single one about the temples that used to serve as union meeting halls in the United States. He doesn't really want to compare the bricklayers union to the pharaohs, does he?
 No matter. For anyone who still clings to an idealistic vision of the labor movement, or is interested in some novel prescriptions for reform, I would skip the pyramids and try this book.


GRAPHIC: Photo: James R. Hoffa, the president of the Teamsters Union, being taken by police van to a 1971 court appearance in New York City. (Photo by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); CORRUPTION (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); EXTORTION (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); WIRETAPPING (52%); THANKSGIVING (50%) Labor; Reviews; Books and Literature; Organized Labor; Organized Crime

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%)

PERSON: Robert Fitch; Roger Lowenstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



341 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: One Borrowed Share, but One Very Real Vote 

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT. 
Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of MarketWatch. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
SOME investors seem to be taking advantage of a loophole in financial regulations to cast shareholder votes that are far out of proportion to the number of shares they actually own, a new academic study suggests. 
 The study, entitled ''Vote Trading and Information Aggregation,'' has been circulating in academic circles for several months. Its authors are the finance professors Susan E. K. Christoffersen of McGill University in Montreal, Christopher C. Geczy and David K. Musto of the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania and Adam V. Reed of the University of North Carolina.
The authors describe a strategy that enables any investors, no matter how few of a company's shares they own, to profoundly affect the outcome of corporate resolutions that are put to a vote at the annual shareholder meeting. In effect, a shareholder can borrow a large number of shares for a nominal fee and use them to cast a corresponding number of votes. 
 As the study points out, the right to vote on a corporate resolution comes from possession, not ownership, of shares. That means a trader can borrow shares and thus be temporarily eligible to vote on corporate resolutions. The number of votes he can acquire is limited only by his ability to put up collateral -- which is required to be 102 percent of the value of shares borrowed -- and the number of shares available on the securities lending market. This market primarily serves those who wish to borrow shares in order to sell them short, but there is nothing to prevent its use by those whose motive is to influence the outcome of corporate votes.
 As long as you have the collateral, borrowing shares is very inexpensive. The annual cost can be as low as 20 basis points, or two-tenths of a percentage point, on the cash that is put up. And because the borrower must hold the shares for just one day in order to have voting rights, the interest can be almost nothing. The cost to borrow $1 million of stock for one day, for example, could be less than $6, according to Professor Reed. 
 The professors are convinced that many traders are taking advantage of this loophole.
 They reached this conclusion after studying what happens in the securities lending market immediately before and after the record dates for corporate votes. These are the dates when a shareholder needs to have possession of a stock in order to vote on a corporate resolution. The professors focused on 6,186 record dates for resolutions at publicly traded companies from November 1998 to October 1999.
 They found that on the typical record date, there was a significant spike in the number of borrowed shares. And they found an almost-as-big decline in such shares, on average, the day after those record dates. In their opinion, the only plausible explanation is that traders borrowed shares solely to acquire votes. (A copy of the study is at papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract-id=686026.)
 The legal grounding for this practice is not entirely clear, according to the professors, as case law is in some respects ambiguous. But as a practical matter, Professor Reed said, there is ''no direct legal impediment'' to traders acquiring votes by borrowing shares.
 Chester Spatt, chief economist at the Securities and Exchange Commission, said in an interview that it would be inappropriate for him to comment on whether the agency might be contemplating any regulatory changes to prevent investors from borrowing shares in order to influence corporate elections. ''How voting works is at the heart of our proxy system,'' he said. ''The professors are to be commended for helping to shine the spotlight on this important issue.''
 What effect could vote borrowing have on companies and their stock prices? There is no single answer, of course, because it depends on which investors are taking advantage of the loophole and what corporate policies they are supporting and opposing. Over the 12 months covered in the study, the professors found that a majority of vote borrowing was conducted by those who opposed management. But, the researchers also point out, there is no inherent reason that this should always be so. Indeed, corporate management could just as easily exploit this loophole to steer voting in its favor. 
 But it is clear that the opportunity to influence corporate elections exists. And it would be naive to expect institutional investors never to take advantage of it. Hedge funds come to mind in this regard, because they have all the prerequisites: many of these funds have already become involved in corporate governance issues; they are large enough to take full advantage of the securities lending market; they are aggressive; and they are eager to find ways to eke out extra profit.
 Shareholder democracy is an ideal that is perhaps rarely achieved under the best of circumstances. It's not likely to be attained if sophisticated investors can manipulate the outcome of corporate voting merely by borrowing the shares they need.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Timely Borrowing''The number of a company's shares borrowed in the securities lending market often spikes on the record date -- the day the shares must be held to vote on corporate resolutions -- and drops back the next day.Graph tracks record date, borrowed shares, days after and days before.Percentages of the average daily number of shares lent over the period from 10 days before the record date to 10 days after. Based on the average of 6,186 record dates at publicly traded companies from November 1998 to October 1999.(Sources by Susan E. K. Christoffersen, Christopher C. Geczy, David K. Musto, Adam V. Reed)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); BONDS (73%) Stocks and Bonds

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (57%) Wharton School of Finance and Commerce (University of Penna); Mcgill University

PERSON: Mark Hulbert; Susan Christofferson; christopher geczy; David F Musto

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (72%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (77%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (72%); QUEBEC, CANADA (72%) UNITED STATES (77%); CANADA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



342 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Cost of Illegal Immigration May Be Less Than Meets the Eye

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
CALIFORNIA may seem the best place to study the impact of illegal immigration on the prospects of American workers. Hordes of immigrants rushed into the state in the last 25 years, competing for jobs with the least educated among the native population. The wages of high school dropouts in California fell 17 percent from 1980 to 2004. 
 But before concluding that immigrants are undercutting the wages of the least fortunate Americans, perhaps one should consider Ohio. Unlike California, Ohio remains mostly free of illegal immigrants. And what happened to the wages of Ohio's high school dropouts from 1980 to 2004? They fell 31 percent. 
As Congress debates an overhaul of the nation's immigration laws, several economists and news media pundits have sounded the alarm, contending that illegal immigrants are causing harm to Americans in the competition for jobs. 
 Yet a more careful examination of the economic data suggests that the argument is, at the very least, overstated. There is scant evidence that illegal immigrants have caused any significant damage to the wages of American workers. 
 The number that has been getting the most attention lately was produced by George J. Borjas and Lawrence F. Katz, two Harvard economists, in a paper published last year. They estimated that the wave of illegal Mexican immigrants who arrived from 1980 to 2000 had reduced the wages of high school dropouts in the United States by 8.2 percent. But the economists acknowledge that the number does not consider other economic forces, such as the fact that certain businesses would not exist in the United States without cheap immigrant labor. If it had accounted for such things, immigration's impact would be likely to look less than half as big. 
 Mr. Katz was somewhat taken aback by the attention the study has received. ''This was not intended,'' he said.
 At first blush, the preoccupation over immigration seems reasonable. Since 1980, eight million illegal immigrants have entered the work force. Two-thirds of them never completed high school. It is sensible to expect that, because they were willing to work for low wages, they would undercut the position in the labor market of American high school dropouts.
 This common sense, however, ignores half the picture. Over the last quarter-century, the number of people without any college education, including high school dropouts, has fallen sharply. This has reduced the pool of workers who are most vulnerable to competition from illegal immigrants. 
 In addition, as businesses and other economic agents have adjusted to immigration, they have made changes that have muted much of immigration's impact on American workers.
 For instance, the availability of foreign workers at low wages in the Nebraska poultry industry made companies realize that they had the personnel to expand. So they invested in new equipment, generating jobs that would not otherwise be there. In California's strawberry patches, illegal immigrants are not competing against native workers; they are competing against pickers in Michoacan, Mexico. If the immigrant pickers did not come north across the border, the strawberries would.
 ''Immigrants come in and the industries that use this type of labor grow,'' said David Card, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley. ''Taking all into account, the effects of immigration are much, much lower.''
 In a study published last year that compared cities that have lots of less educated immigrants with cities that have very few, Mr. Card found no wage differences that could be attributed to the presence of immigrants. 
 Other research has also cast doubt on illegal immigration's supposed damage to the nation's disadvantaged. A study published earlier this year by three economists -- David H. Autor of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Mr. Katz of Harvard and Melissa S. Kearney of the Brookings Institution -- observed that income inequality in the bottom half of the wage scale has not grown since around the mid-1980's.
 Even economists striving hardest to find evidence of immigration's effect on domestic workers are finding that, at most, the surge of illegal immigrants probably had only a small impact on wages of the least-educated Americans -- an effect that was likely swamped by all the other things that hit the economy, from the revolution in technology to the erosion of the minimum wage's buying power.
 When Mr. Borjas and Mr. Katz assumed that businesses reacted to the extra workers with a corresponding increase in investment -- as has happened in Nebraska -- their estimate of the decline in wages of high school dropouts attributed to illegal immigrants was shaved to 4.8 percent. And they have since downgraded that number, acknowledging that the original analysis used some statistically flimsy data.
 Assuming a jump in capital investment, they found that the surge in illegal immigration reduced the wages of high school dropouts by just 3.6 percent. Across the entire labor force, the effect of illegal immigrants was zero, because the presence of uneducated immigrants actually increased the earnings of more educated workers, including high school graduates. For instance, higher-skilled workers could hire foreigners at low wages to mow their lawns and care for their children, freeing time for these workers to earn more. And businesses that exist because of the availability of cheap labor might also need to employ managers.
 Mr. Borjas said that while the numbers were not large, the impact at the bottom end of the skill range was significant. ''It is not a big deal for the whole economy, but that hides a big distributional impact,'' he said.
 OTHERS disagree. ''If you're a native high school dropout in this economy, you've got a slew of problems of which immigrant competition is but one, and a lesser one at that,'' said Jared Bernstein of the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research group.
 Mr. Katz agreed that the impact was modest, and it might fall further if changes in trade flows were taken into account -- specifically, that without illegal immigrants, some products now made in the United States would likely be imported. ''Illegal immigration had a little bit of a role reinforcing adverse trends for the least advantaged,'' he said, ''but there are much stronger forces operating over the last 25 years.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Do Immigrants Affect Wages?''The estimated number of illegal immigrants in a state's population shows no apparent correlation with the median wage for less educated workers in that state.SELECTED STATES, 2004NevadaIllegal immigrants as a percent of state's population: 7.5%Median hourly wage for high-school dropouts: $10.05CaliforniaIllegal immigrants as a percent of state's population: 6.9Median hourly wage for high-school dropouts: 8.71FloridaIllegal immigrants as a percent of state's population: 5.2Median hourly wage for high-school dropouts: 8.99MarylandIllegal immigrants as a percent of state's population: 4.5Median hourly wage for high-school dropouts: 9.84New JerseyIllegal immigrants as a percent of state's population: 4.1Median hourly wage for high-school dropouts: 9.03New YorkIllegal immigrants as a percent of state's population: 3.3Median hourly wage for high-school dropouts: 9.02NebraskaIllegal immigrants as a percent of state's population: 2.3Median hourly wage for high-school dropouts: 9.08OhioIllegal immigrants as a percent of state's population: 1.0Median hourly wage for high-school dropouts: 8.37KentuckyIllegal immigrants as a percent of state's population: 0.9Median hourly wage for high-school dropouts: 8.73(Source by Pew Hispanic Center, Economic Policy Institute analysis of Current Population Survey data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (93%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); REFUGEES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); POLITICAL DEBATES (55%); POULTRY (50%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Labor

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%)

PERSON: Eduardo Porter; Lawrence F Katz; George J (Prof) Borjas

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



343 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1920 words

HEADLINE: Poetic Boom?

BYLINE: By WILLIAM LOGAN. 
William Logan is a poet and critic whose most recent books are ''The Whispering Gallery'' and ''The Undiscovered Country.''

 BODY:
THE OXFORD BOOK OF AMERICAN POETRY
 Chosen and edited by David Lehman.
 1,132 pp. Oxford University Press. $35.
American poetry began with a governor's daughter, a Puritan minister on the Massachusetts frontier, a ship captain who edited an anti-Federalist newspaper and a slave. Often the best thing about these poets is their biographies. All but the captain were born outside the colonies; but, even before there was a United States, they wrote in the democratic helter-skelter of the New World. To borrow a remark from Samuel Johnson, the verse written during the century and a half before the Revolution was ''like a dog's walking on his hinder legs. It is not done well; but you are surprised to find it done at all.'' 
 Anne Bradstreet leads off anthologies of American poetry because she's the first American poet who wasn't perfectly awful. Daughter of one governor and wife of another, she wrote with the high-minded clumsiness of the imperfectly educated. 
 Art can doe much, but this maxime's most sure, 
 A weake or wounded braine admits no cure. 
 The early American poets were naifs with the memory of sophistication, like carpenters working with primitive tools under primitive conditions. There's a quaintness to the work of the preacher, Edward Taylor, and the ship captain, Philip Freneau, and the slave, Phillis Wheatley, but sometimes a queer rightness, too. When Taylor writes, about infinity, ''Who in this Bowling Alley bowld the Sun?'' you think how much Donne would have liked the metaphor; but you have only to compare the work of these poets with what was being written across the water by Dryden and Pope to see how bad the home team was. 
 Poets born after the Revolution grew up in a different world, where Americans developed the self-consciousness necessary for a literary tradition not naive. This was the age of literary men who made their living as editors and lecturers and even poets, an age where the economies of leisure meant that a man could earn his bread by his words. Yet with that self-consciousness came a certain conservatism. William Cullen Bryant and Ralph Waldo Emerson and Henry Wadsworth Longfellow were poets of more power than originality, still looking over their shoulders to check what the British were doing; and with every backward glance they failed to behold the America lying before them. 
 We should wonder, not how an American at the age of 17 could compose a poem as haunting as ''Thanatopsis,'' but why Bryant produced such porridge afterward. He's not the only might-have-been in American poetry, just one of the saddest -- his poetic powers were soon lost in ''rosy depths'' and the ''plashy brink.'' Edgar Allan Poe, on the other hand, is a reminder that our poetry has often depended on wounded oddballs more than literary men; but that not all wounded oddballs make good poets -- he wrote in a fanciful poetic diction coated in tar and set alight.
 Emerson, though only a mediocre poet himself, was the first to see that there was an American poetry to be written. Imagine his excitement as he read a thin vanity-press quarto published by an anonymous author, a quarto titled ''Leaves of Grass.'' Walt Whitman, that American self-invention, was not the rough in a slouch hat he pretended to be, but a Brooklyn printer and newspaper editor with an overactive imagination. He had seen the West only from the deck of a Mississippi sidewheeler; yet his longings held a mirror to the American soul, its taste for guilt and reinvention, its wanderlust, its love of its own raw language. Whitman gave Emerson exactly what he'd asked for, a poet of our ''ample geography'' who could make use of ''our logrolling, our stumps and their politics . . . our boasts and our repudiations.'' More than he ever realized, Emerson was responsible for Whitman's imposture and masquerade.
 We must not forget that secret sharer who influenced American verse in more subterranean ways. Emily Dickinson's self-mutilating psychology and silvery unhappiness give a differential specimen of the American character. A bloodless recluse in Amherst, indrawn as a clam, she developed her own shorthand language, one so powerful the rhythms borrowed from hymns seem resolutely her own. Dickinson wrote almost half her poems during the Civil War, scratching out a poem a day during the hard year of Shiloh. Perhaps something of the horrors far to the South touched the death fantasies within her. From Whitman's and Dickinson's damaged psyches, American poetry has borrowed more than it cares to admit; yet our poetry was just as tormented and even more deeply molded by the King James Bible, Shakespeare, Milton, Coleridge, Wordsworth, Keats and many another Briton. It was our language and our landscape that we were a long time accepting.
 The dirty secret of American poetry is that until Whitman and Dickinson it was no damn good, and until the modernists it was not good again. It takes only 10 pages for the new ''Oxford Anthology of American Poetry,'' edited by David Lehman, to get through the 17th century, and 10 more for the 18th. The whole 19th century takes fewer than 200, and half that is devoted to Whitman and Dickinson. After that, for 900 pages, it is one long diet of the 20th century.
 Lehman, though a poet himself, is better known as editor of the annual series ''The Best American Poetry'' and author of ''Signs of the Times,'' an attack on deconstructive literary theory. ''The Oxford Book of American Verse,'' as it was first known, was edited by the distinguished scholar F. O. Matthiessen in 1950 and, as ''The New Oxford Book of American Verse,'' revised by the equally distinguished Richard Ellmann in 1976. Lehman's introduction, a good deal of it a defense against his predecessors, lives in a prose world where assumptions are governing, essays seminal and stock always goes sky-high. He's proud of what he calls the ''widening of focus'' here, though it's hard to see why this isn't just ''out of focus'' by another name. Matthiessen, as Lehman notes, included 51 poets, and Ellmann 78; Lehman has 210, nearly a quarter of them born between 1940 and 1950. This grotesquely overrates the wartime and baby-boom generation, still an amorphous crowd of genial talent through which Lehman offers no path.
 A good anthologist must have a few bizarre quirks, though preferably not too many. Lehman's catholic taste and appreciation of minor voices make him ill at ease with major ones. Take his treatment of the moderns, the most radically complex generation American poetry has produced. Robert Frost, whose dark American pastoral is heir to Dickinson's private shadows, produced such a crop of famous poems it's difficult to leave any out; but Lehman offers too many of the cracker-barrel set pieces beloved by generations of high-school teachers. Marianne Moore's most disturbing animal poems and the later meditative poems of William Carlos Williams are ignored. Wallace Stevens finds himself naked without even a stanza from his long poems, while T. S. Eliot is begrudged the roustabout humor of the Sweeney poems or ''The Hippopotamus.'' And Ezra Pound, poor Ezra Pound, hardly sets foot here, receiving fewer pages than any of the others despite his influence on a century once called the ''Pound Era.'' After the moderns, the next major American poet is . . . W. H. Auden! Auden lived in New York for some 30 years and wrote poems about his adopted country; but it's odd to include a poet of such English intonation and character, especially with poems written, a few of them, before he'd ever set foot in America. 
 Lehman is such a democrat, he can hardly bear to leave anyone out (16 of the 18 editors of ''The Best American Poetry'' are included, and the missing pair were born after 1950, the cutoff). It's one thing to leaven the majors with wits like Dorothy Parker or kooky originals like H. Phelps Putnam (who wrote, among other things, a pair of sonnets about genitals), quite another to try to revive the long dead reputations of Emma Lazarus, Adelaide Crapsey, Angelina Weld Grimke, Samuel Greenberg, Leonie Adams, Mark Van Doren, John Wheelwright and dozens of other trivial worthies (even on a bad day, a battered stanza by Eliot makes these poets look like a dish of mealworms). In a lengthy anthology, this means there are vast desert spaces between the poets worth reading.
 The editor has wisely not welcomed song lyrics, though he has wavered enough to include one hymn, two blues and a song by Bob Dylan; yet I miss a section of American folk songs and ballads. We're given little more than ''Casey at the Bat,'' that great American paean to failure. 
 Lehman's introduction is not much help in coming to terms with his taste. He's suspicious of overanalyzing poems and would prefer that readers experience a poem's ''uncanny mysteriousness,'' which sounds like the credo of the Know-Nothing Party. (This may explain the book's frustrating lack of notes.) ''I prize, as do many readers,'' he declares, ''eloquence, passion, intelligence, conviction, wit, originality, pride of craft, an eye for the genuine, an ear for speech, an instinct for the truth'' -- this must be more gaseous blather than any anthologist has fitted into one sentence for a long time.
 As Lehman nears the present, his choices grow off-balance and whimsical. John Ashbery receives nearly twice as many pages as Pound and almost three times as many as Robert Lowell, who might just as well never have written his extraordinary early poems. (You can get the idea of Ashbery in two pages -- almost everything after that is sludge.) It's simply madness to reduce John Berryman to half a dozen pages and Randall Jarrell to 5 (scanting his great war poems), while lavishing 8 on Charles Bukowski and 10 on James Schuyler. Lehman's fondness for the Beats and the New York School (their glamour largely faded now) means that Allen Ginsberg and Kenneth Koch and Frank O'Hara are given acres of elbow room, though Ginsberg is weirdly denied ''Howl,'' the most famous poem of the postwar period. The strangest inclusion is the Canadian Anne Carson, here because she ''has taught in the United States and has a wide following among younger poets'' -- with standards like that, you could include any poet who ever came here for a long weekend. 
 Reading through the poets even younger, I'm drawn to some I've frequently criticized -- to the strangled psychology of Louise Gluck and C. K. Williams's voyeuristic confessions, to the smudged Turneresque landscapes of Charles Wright and Jorie Graham's M.R.I. cross sections of consciousness. Yet far more pages are wasted on giddy, crowd-pleasing poets like Billy Collins and James Tate. Worse, the younger poets are getting older -- the youngest in Matthiessen was 33; the youngest in Ellmann, 42. The youngest in Lehman is in his mid-50's, and at this rate the baby in the next edition will be over 70. 
 Anthologies age as badly as fashion, and the pillbox hats and pearls of one generation must give way to the tattoos and tongue studs of another. It took a long while for the most distinguished press in the mother country to notice that Americans wrote poetry at all; but where Oxford's first anthology of American verse could have been carried around in a small handbag, the new one has to be wheeled around in a shopping cart. This bloated, earnest, largely mediocre new Oxford takes up a lot of space on the shelf without providing a clear view of our moment. That chance won't come again for another generation.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Ray Bartkus)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); POETRY (92%); WRITERS (90%); LITERATURE (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (71%); BOWLING CENTERS (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: SAM JOHNSON (55%) William Logan; David Lehman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



344 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Every Man a King

BYLINE: By DAVID OSHINSKY. 
David Oshinsky, the Littlefield professor of history at the University of Texas, is the author, most recently, of ''Polio: An American Story.''

 BODY:
KINGFISH
 The Reign of Huey P. Long.
 By Richard D. White Jr.
 Illustrated. 361 pp. Random House. $26.95.
TO millions of Americans during the Great Depression he was a political messiah, envisioning a country where wealth was fairly shared and ordinary people enjoyed the necessities of life. To others he was a dictator-in-waiting, described by H. L. Mencken as a backwoods Mussolini -- ''impudent, blackguardly and infinitely prehensile.'' When it came to Huey P. Long, who called himself ''Kingfish,'' there was no middle ground.
 As governor of Louisiana in the late 1920's, he revolutionized politics by demolishing the ''bourbon'' oligarchy of planters, bankers and corporate interests that had dominated the state since Reconstruction. Using patronage as his lure and the state police as his private army, he corrupted elections, jailed political opponents, threatened hostile newspapers and bribed fence-sitting legislators -- all in the name of helping those in need. ''A perfect democracy can come close to looking like a dictatorship,'' Huey explained, ''a democracy in which the people are so satisfied they have no complaint.'' 
 Elected to the Senate in 1930, he attracted national attention with his ''Share Our Wealth'' clubs, which vowed to ''make every man a king.'' Later, he would break ranks with President Franklin Roosevelt, a fellow Democrat, whom he dismissed as ''a phony . . . livin' on an inherited income.'' (Roosevelt, in turn, would rank Huey as ''one of the two most dangerous men in the country'' -- the other being Gen. Douglas MacArthur.) Before his death in 1935, Long was widely viewed as a dark-horse presidential contender, a legitimate threat to Roosevelt and the New Deal.
 The story of Huey Long has been told in many different forms. Hodding Carter earned national acclaim as a young journalist for his scathing exposes of corruption in the Long political machine. Robert Penn Warren won the 1947 Pulitzer Prize in fiction for ''All the King's Men,'' about the rise and fall of a populist Southern governor, modeled after the Kingfish. T. Harry Williams was awarded the 1970 Pulitzer Prize in biography for ''Huey Long,'' an enormous and largely sympathetic rendering of the man. Since then, numerous books have appeared comparing Long with other demagogues. 
 ''Kingfish,'' by Richard D. White Jr., who teaches public administration at Louisiana State University, is a faithful retelling of a familiar story. White highlights the vulgar outbursts, bloody fistfights and snake-oil salesmanship that defined ''the reign of Huey P. Long.'' The narrative, largely anecdotal, is heavy on the syrup. The weather in Louisiana is never simply warm -- it's ''suffocating'' and ''scalding,'' a place where ''white-hot tension . . . neared the boiling point.'' This may help to explain why Huey's complexion keeps changing every few pages, from ''purple'' to ''crimson'' to ''red-beet'' to ''the color of a ripe tomato.'' Many a scene in ''Kingfish'' includes a description of his sartorial splendor, from the shape of his fedora to the spit-shine on his two-tone wingtip shoes. 
 White is best when covering Huey's early battles with ''special interests'' -- Standard Oil in particular -- over legislation to build roads and bridges, provide free school textbooks, finance hospital construction, create a first-class state university and raise the scandalously low corporate tax rate. While offering no clear explanation as to why Huey, a child of relative privilege, would choose to lead class war against the wealthy, White shows that his legislative victories did help the poor. 
 White believes that Huey abandoned true populism after his election to the Senate. Once in Washington, he says, Huey ''did little to foster the economic liberation of the people whose trust he captured.'' His goal became the White House, and his platform, a hodgepodge of detail-thin proposals, called for heavily taxing the richest Americans in order to provide every family with ''enough for a home, an automobile, a radio and the ordinary conveniences.'' When skeptics questioned his plan, claiming that no level of taxation could finance all he had promised, Huey replied that figures didn't matter because he was following the law of God. 
 How serious Huey was about these proposals is a subject of debate. He spent so much time either berating Roosevelt as a false prophet or shamelessly promoting himself that one can easily lose track of the legitimate issues dividing the two men, like the adequacy of the federal government's response to the Great Depression. For all his clowning, Huey almost certainly nudged the Roosevelt administration farther to the left than it had ever intended to go. 
 How does one sum up Long's political career? For White, the line between the democratic populist and the native fascist is always blurry. ''Huey began to take power,'' he writes, ''and then to do more good he seized still more and finally the means and ends became so twisted in his mind that he no longer could tell them apart.'' It's a fair assessment. Unfortunately, like so much else in ''Kingfish,'' it's been said before. As T. Harry Williams wrote of Huey 37 years ago, ''in striving to do good, he was led on to grasp for more and more power, until finally he could not always distinguish between the method and the goal, the power and the good.''
 When Huey was murdered in 1935, shot behind the lobby of the state capitol in Baton Rouge by a doctor whose family had been feuding with the Long political machine, he had just turned 42. In his final hours, according to bedside witnesses, he drifted in and out of consciousness, but his mind cleared briefly at the end. ''God, don't let me die,'' Huey whispered. ''I have so much to do.''


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph courtesy State Library of Louisiana/From ''Kingfish'')

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (85%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (74%); CORRUPTION (73%); BRIBERY (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); WRITERS (73%); LITERATURE (65%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%); POLICE FORCES (53%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: David Oshinsky; Huey Pierce (1893-1935) Long; Richard D Jr White

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



345 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 7730 words

HEADLINE: Taking the Least of You

BYLINE: By Rebecca Skloot. 
Rebecca Skloot is the author of ''The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks,'' about the history, ethics and ownership of the first human cell line, which will be published by Crown next year.

 BODY:
The Tissue-Industrial Complex
 Anna O'Connell couldn't find Ted. She stood bent at the waist on a frigid afternoon last December, her head and all its fuzzy red hair crammed into an old stand-up freezer that looked like something you get milk from at the corner store: tall, white with a bit of rust and a pull handle. That freezer is the first thing you see when you walk into the Fox Chase Cancer Center laboratory in Philadelphia, where O'Connell has spent decades as a staff scientist. She pushed aside vial after vial. ''I know we still have him somewhere,'' she yelled, her head still inside the freezer. ''We've got serum from, like, 450,000 people.'' 
O'Connell grabbed a ragged cardboard box the size of a paperback book. ''This is my treasure box,'' she said. ''I bet Ted's in here.'' The box held 56 tiny glass vials filled with clear blood serum -- some from patients, others from laboratory animals, all taken and kept for hepatitis research. Around each vial, on a thin piece of tape, someone had scribbled information about each sample. ''That's duck,'' O'Connell said, raising a vial to eye level. She dropped it and grabbed the next one. ''Woodchuck.'' She shook her head. ''Geez, somebody should organize this.'' She lifted vials one at a time, reading labels, dropping them back into the box and muttering, ''Duck. . .duck. . .human, not Ted. . .duck. . .woodchuck. . .human, not Ted.. . .'' 
 She looked over her shoulder at me and smiled apologetically. I had traveled many miles to learn about this man, Ted, whose blood was key in the creation of the first-ever hepatitis B vaccine decades earlier. ''It's strange,'' O'Connell said, shaking her head. ''I used him so much over the years, I usually keep a little bit of him in every freezer.'' 
 Suddenly, she twirled to face me, arm extended, holding one tiny vial, grinning. ''Here he is!'' she said. ''Ted Slavin.'' 
 Though he died 21 years ago, Slavin is worth keeping track of. Not because his cells produced extremely valuable proteins that were important for scientific research. But because Slavin's relationship to those cells was unique: they weren't just part of his body; they were his business, his property. Slavin was one of the first people in history to decide that contrary to the way things usually work in science, he would maintain complete control over any blood and tissues removed from his body. He would determine who used them for research, how and, most important to Slavin, who made money from them.
 This may not sound like a particularly groundbreaking idea, unless you consider it with a little-known fact: blood samples and other excised human tissues have an afterlife. When you go to the doctor for a routine blood test or mole removal, when you have an appendectomy, tonsillectomy or any other kind of ectomy, the stuff you leave behind doesn't always get thrown out. Doctors, hospitals and laboratories keep them. Often indefinitely. Some get consent with admission forms that say something like, I give my doctor permission to dispose of my tissues or use them in research. Others don't. 
 Today most Americans have their tissue on file somewhere. In 1999 the RAND Corporation published a report (the first and, so far, the last of its kind) with what it called a ''conservative estimate'' that more than 307 million tissue samples from more than 178 million people were stored in the United States. This number, the report said, was increasing by more than 20 million samples each year. These samples come from routine medical tests, operations, clinical trials and research donations. They sit in lab freezers, on shelves or in industrial vats of liquid nitrogen. They're stored at military facilities, the F.B.I. and the National Institutes of Health. They're in biotech companies and most hospitals. Biobanks store everything from appendixes, ovaries and skin to sphincters, testicles and fat. Not to mention blood samples taken from most children born in the United States since the late 60's, when states started mandating screening newborns for genetic diseases.
 Scientists and surgeons use these tissues to develop everything from flu vaccines to penis-enlargement products. They put cells in culture dishes and expose them to radiation, drugs, cosmetics, viruses, household chemicals and biological weapons and then study their responses. They remove DNA to examine it -- and therefore the person it came from -- gene by gene. Without those tissues, we would have no tests for diseases like hepatitis and H.I.V.; no vaccines for polio, smallpox, measles; none of the new promising drugs for leukemia, breast cancer, colon cancer. And without tissue samples, the developers of those products would be out billions of dollars.
 How you should feel about all this isn't obvious. Scientists aren't stealing your arm or some vital organ. They're just using tissue scraps you parted with voluntarily. But still, someone is taking part of you. And people often have a strong sense of ownership when it comes to their bodies. Even tiny scraps of it. Especially when they hear that someone else might be making money off those scraps. Or using them to uncover potentially damaging information about their genes and medical histories. 
 But a feeling of ownership doesn't hold up in court. And at this point, the law isn't clear on whether you have the right to own and control your tissues. When they're part of your body, they're clearly yours. Once they're excised, things get murky. 
 The scale of tissue research is only getting bigger. ''It used to be, some researcher in Florida had 60 samples in his freezer, then another guy in Utah had some in his,'' says Kathy Hudson, a molecular biologist who directs the Genetics and Public Policy Center at Johns Hopkins University. ''Now we're talking about a massive, massive scale.'' Within the last year, the National Cancer Institute started gathering what it expects will be millions of tissue samples for mapping cancer genes; the Genographic Project began doing the same to map human migration patterns, as did the N.I.H. to track disease genes. 
 Many scientists depend on access to tissues without the burden of restrictions that donors might make. (Restrictions like, You can use my tissues for this research, not that research; don't commercialize them, or do, and give me a cut.) At this point, scientists largely have the access they want. And they hope to keep it that way for fear that restrictions might slow research. But a growing number of activists -- ethicists, lawyers, doctors and patients -- are arguing cases and pushing for federal regulations that would change the status quo by granting people rights to control their tissues. These days, their attention is focused on a potentially landmark court case: Washington University is claiming ownership of tissues from 6,000 patients who want their samples removed from the university's prostate-cancer bank. Hudson, who has conducted focus groups about the public's feelings on the tissue issue, says she believes that tissue rights have the potential to become a bona fide movement. ''I could see a broader mobilization where people start saying, 'No, you can't take my tissues,''' she told me. ''All I can say is, we better deal with the problems now instead of waiting until that happens.''
 Anna O'Connell agrees. The day I visited her lab, she rolled a vial of Ted Slavin's serum in her hand. We sat as she told me she wanted to see this issue settled, but she wanted to make one thing clear: scientists aren't out to deceive people about their tissues. ''We genuinely want to gather as much information as we can to advance research,'' she said. ''The problem is, in all that excitement, sometimes scientists don't think about consequences.''

The $3 Billion Man
 The tissue rights debate began in 1976, with a man named John Moore. He worked 12-hour days, 7 days a week, as a surveyor on the Alaska pipeline. He thought it was killing him. His gums bled; his belly swelled; bruises covered his body. It turned out that he had hairy-cell leukemia, a rare cancer that filled his spleen with malignant blood cells until it bulged like an overfilled inner tube. Moore found David Golde, a prominent cancer researcher at U.C.L.A., who said that removing his spleen was the only way to go. As Moore told it to the courts and the media, he signed a consent form saying that the hospital could ''dispose of any severed tissue or member by cremation.'' A normal spleen weighs less than a pound; Moore's weighed 22. After the surgery, at the age of 31, Moore moved to Seattle, became an oyster salesman, went on with his life. But every few months, he flew to Los Angeles for follow-up exams with Golde. 
 At first, Moore didn't think much of the trips. But after a few years of flying from Seattle to L.A. so that Golde could take bone marrow, blood and semen, Moore started thinking, Can't a doctor in Seattle do this? When Moore asked Golde about doing his follow-ups in Seattle, Golde offered to pay for the plane tickets and put him up in style at the ritzy Beverly Wilshire. Moore didn't start getting suspicious until one day in 1983 -- seven years after his surgery -- when a nurse handed him a consent form that said, ''I (do, do not) voluntarily grant to the University of California all rights I, or my heirs, may have in any cell line or any other potential product which might be developed from the blood and/or bone marrow obtained from me.'' At first, Moore circled ''do.'' 
 ''It's, like, you don't want to rock the boat,'' Moore told Discover magazine years later. ''You think maybe this guy will cut you off, and you're going to die or something.'' But when the nurse gave him an identical form during his next visit, Moore asked whether Golde was doing something commercial with his tissues. According to Moore, Golde said that U.C.L.A. would never do such a thing. But Moore circled ''do not,'' just in case. That's when Golde started calling, saying: You must have accidentally mis-signed the consent form. Come back and sign again. ''I didn't feel comfortable confronting him,'' Moore said later, ''so I said, 'Gee, Doctor, I don't know how I could have made that mistake.''' But he didn't go back and sign. 
 After Moore got home, another consent form appeared in his mailbox with a sticker that said, ''Circle I do.'' He didn't. Then Golde sent a letter urging Moore to sign the form. That's when Moore sent the form to a lawyer. The lawyer did a quick database search and found that weeks before giving Moore the first consent form, Golde filed for a patent on Moore's cells (the ''Mo'' cell line) and several valuable proteins those cells produced. 
 Golde had not licensed the patent to anyone. But according to the lawsuit Moore eventually filed, Golde had entered into agreements with a biotech company that gave him stocks and financing worth more than $3.5 million to ''commercially develop'' and ''scientifically investigate'' the cell line. At that point, the market value of the Mo cell line was predicted to reach $3 billion. 
 Most cells are worth nothing individually, but Moore's were special. They produced several valuable proteins used to treat infections and cancer and carried a rare virus that might lead to treatments for H.I.V. Drug companies coveted these things, but Moore couldn't sell or donate them because that would violate Golde's patent. Technically, you can't patent anything naturally occurring -- like skin or blood. But once you alter something using human ingenuity, patents are fair game. Moore's cells wouldn't have survived outside his body unless Golde turned them into a cell line -- self-perpetuating clones of one original cell. Hence the patent. 
 The way Moore saw it, he had been duped. So in 1984 he sued Golde and U.C.L.A. If he had just sued over accusations of deception, his case wouldn't have been a landmark. But he took it further. He claimed property rights over those tissues and sued Golde for stealing them. He sued on 13 counts, including conversion (using or controlling someone else's property without permission). With that, Moore became the first person to legally stake claim over his tissue and sue for profits and damages. 
 Golde, who died several years ago, denied Moore's charges. And other scientists panicked. If excised tissues -- including blood cells -- became patients' property, researchers taking them without detailed consent and explicit transfer of property rights up front would risk theft charges and more. Lawyers warned that a victory for Moore would ''create chaos for researchers'' and ''[sound] the death knell to the university physician-scientist.'' One researcher called it ''a threat to the sharing of tissue for research purposes''; others worried that patients would hold out for a large cut and destroy the financial incentive to do research. 
 Round 1: A Los Angeles court said Moore had no case and dismissed it. Round 2: Moore appealed and won. In 1988, the California Court of Appeal ruled that a patient's blood and tissues remain his property after being removed from his body. The judges pointed to the Protection of Human Subjects in Medical Experimentation Act, a 1978 California statute requiring that research on humans respect ''the right of individuals to determine what is done to their own bodies.'' They ruled: ''A patient must have the ultimate power to control what becomes of his or her tissues. To hold otherwise would open the door to a massive invasion of human privacy and dignity in the name of medical progress.''
 Then Golde appealed and won. In 1990, nearly seven years after Moore filed suit, the Supreme Court of California ruled against Moore on 11 counts in what has become the definitive statement on this issue: any ownership you might have in your tissues vanishes when they are removed from your body, with or without consent. When you leave tissues in a doctor's office or a lab, you abandon them as waste. Anyone can take your garbage and sell it -- the same goes for your tissues. Most important, the court said, Moore couldn't own his cells, because that would conflict with Golde's patent. Golde had ''transformed'' those cells into an invention. They were, the ruling said, the product of Golde's ''human ingenuity'' and ''inventive effort.'' 
 Moore did prevail on two counts (lack of informed consent and breach of fiduciary duty), and the court said that Golde should have disclosed his financial interest in Moore's tissues. It recognized the lack of regulation concerning consent and ownership and called on legislators to fix the problem. But that didn't change the court's decision. The court said that ruling in Moore's favor might ''destroy the economic incentive to conduct important medical research.'' It worried that giving patients property rights would ''hinder research by restricting access to the necessary raw materials'' and create a field where ''with every cell sample a researcher purchases a ticket in a litigation lottery.'' 
 Moore appealed to the United States Supreme Court and was turned down. He died in 2001. 
 The Moore case released a flood of responses. Scientists and ethicists called for new legislation. Congress held tissue-research hearings; its committees uncovered millions of dollars in profits made by the biotechnology industry and concluded that ''no single body of law, policy or ethics applies.'' In 1995, President Bill Clinton asked his new National Bioethics Advisory Commission to examine the tissue-research controversy and recommend a solution. Four years later, it determined that federal oversight was ''inadequate'' and ''ambiguous.'' It recommended specific consent-policy changes but skirted the issue of ownership by simply saying it needed further investigation. 
 In response to the Moore case and the bioethics commission, some hospitals added lines to their consent forms saying that patients' tissues might be used in research; others didn't. Some inserted lines saying that patients waive commercial rights to their cells; others didn't. But scientists kept using patients' tissues. 
 ''It's ironic,'' says Lori Andrews, director of the Institute for Science, Law and Technology at the Illinois Institute of Technology. ''The Moore court's concern was, If you gave a person property rights in their tissues, it would slow down research because people might withhold access for money.'' According to Andrews -- and a dissenting California Supreme Court judge -- the ruling didn't prevent commercialization; it just took patients out of the equation and emboldened scientists to commodify tissues in increasing numbers. Andrews argues that this made scientists less likely to share samples and results, which slows research. ''The Moore decision backfired,'' she says. ''It just handed that commercial value to researchers.''
 Lori Andrews's career has focused almost exclusively on genetic rights and tissue issues. She has written 10 books and more than 100 articles and legal briefs; she has advised Congress, the World Health Organization, the National Institutes of Health and 14 foreign countries. She speaks regularly at conferences and seminars, writes popular articles and will soon publish a mass-market murder mystery called ''Sequence,'' which is essentially a 288-page collection of what-if situations illustrating the potential benefits of tissue research, and the potential dangers -- like losing health insurance when a tissue test uncovers disease genes (which has happened).
 Andrews maintains that people should control their tissues to protect themselves from potential harm. The way Andrews sees it, if someone breaks into your house and looks through your personal belongings, your privacy has been violated, which is illegal. That violation can be psychologically harmful, but it also leaves you vulnerable to someone using your information against you. Some 700 new mothers recently found out that doctors took their placentas without consent to test for abnormalities that might help defend against future lawsuits over birth defects. Then there are the members of the Native American Havasupai Tribe who said they felt violated and stigmatized after supplying samples for diabetes research and then having scientists use them to study schizophrenia and inbreeding without consent. 
 Andrews argues that the law protects against even the most abstract harm. ''Think about it,'' she says. ''I decide who gets my money after I die. It wouldn't harm me if I died and you gave all my money to someone else. But there's something psychologically beneficial to me as a living person to know I can give my money to whoever I want.'' No one can say, She shouldn't be allowed to do that with her money because that might not be most beneficial to society. But replace the word ''money'' in that sentence with ''tissue,'' and you've got precisely the logic her opponents use in the tissue debate. ''Science is not the highest value in society,'' Andrews says, pointing instead to things like autonomy and personal freedom. ''Research isn't a matter of conscription.''
 Andrews has worked (pro bono) on the biggest tissue cases, including Moore, and the landmark 1989 York v. Jones trial between an infertile couple and their doctor, who refused to transfer their embryo to a new clinic. (That case set the precedent for people having property rights over their sperm, eggs and embryos.) Her next big case involved a family, the Greenbergs, who volunteered tissue samples and donated money to help a researcher find the gene for their children's rare disorder, Canavan disease. When the researcher found the gene, according to court documents, he patented it without telling them. They sued for fraudulent concealment of the patent, lack of informed consent and unjust enrichment. As in the Moore case, which set the legal precedent for the Greenberg trial, the court found no grounds for a property claim. But it did find grounds for the Greenbergs' unjust enrichment claim (because they invested ''time and significant resources''). They received an undisclosed settlement, and no one involved can discuss it.
 When it comes to patients having rights in tissue research, much to the chagrin of people like Andrews, nothing has ever been bigger than John Moore. ''I'm really haunted by the Moore case,'' she told me recently. ''That case could have changed everything.''

The Antibody Business
 There is one thing that the John Moore story makes clear: At this point, once someone removes tissue from your body, you have no control over what happens to it and no stake in potential profits. But here is one thing the Moore case didn't address: Those tissues are still yours when attached to your body. If you know this ahead of time and if your tissues turn out to be valuable, you can control them and play the tissue market as well as any biotech company.
 Technically it is illegal to sell human organs and tissues for transplants or medical treatments. But there is a thriving market: giving tissues away while charging steep fees for collecting and processing is perfectly legal, as is selling tissues for research, education and art. Industry-specific figures don't exist, but estimates say that one human body can bring in anywhere from $10,000 to nearly $150,000. That's nothing compared with DNA -- just one gene can be worth billions. Many companies provide tissues and DNA for research. Sometimes they're small operations -- one guy who picks up tissues at hospitals, then portions them out. Other times they're huge corporations, like Ardais, which pays an undisclosed amount of money to the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center at Harvard, to the Duke University Medical Center and to many others for exclusive access to tissues collected from their patients' operations, biopsies and blood draws. 
 Somehow, Ted Slavin saw this market coming decades ago. And he wanted a piece of the action. Slavin was a hemophiliac, and in the mid 1950's the only treatment was an infusion of clotting factors from donor blood, which wasn't screened for diseases. That meant that Slavin was exposed to the hepatitis B virus over and over again. But he didn't know he had been exposed until the 1970's, when a blood test found extremely high concentrations of valuable hepatitis B antibodies in his blood. And here is what makes Slavin's case special: His doctor told him about those antibodies, and Slavin realized they were worth a lot of money. 
 That hepatitis B test -- a multibillion-dollar product -- required a steady supply of antibodies like Slavin's. Pharmaceutical companies wanted antibodies to help create the first hepatitis B vaccine. The market was tremendous. And Slavin needed money: he worked, but he would have attacks, become disabled, lose jobs. So he started contacting laboratories and companies and asking if they wanted to buy his antibodies. They said yes in droves. 
 Slavin started selling his serum for as much as $10 a milliliter -- at up to 500 milliliters per order -- to anyone who wanted it. But he didn't stop there: Slavin wanted money, but more than that, he wanted somebody to cure hepatitis B. He called the National Institutes of Health for a printout of every hepatitis B researcher. On that list, he found Baruch Blumberg, a researcher at the Fox Chase Cancer Center, who had won a Nobel Prize for discovering the hepatitis B antigen and who created the blood test that diagnosed Slavin's disease. Slavin figured that if anybody was going to cure hepatitis B, it would be Blumberg. So he sat down and wrote a letter: Dear Dr. Blumberg, he said, I'd like you to use my tissues to find a cure for hepatitis B. I'll give you all the antibodies you could need. And I'll do it free. 
 That letter started a long partnership between Slavin, Blumberg, Anna O'Connell and others at Fox Chase. Blumberg's lab used Slavin's serum to help uncover the link between hepatitis B and liver cancer and to create the first hepatitis B vaccine, which has saved millions of lives. Meanwhile, as Slavin's antibody business grew, he had an epiphany: he probably wasn't the only patient out there with valuable blood. So he recruited other similarly endowed people and started a company. He called it Essential Biologicals, which eventually merged to become part of a massive biological-product corporation. 
 ''I don't see anything wrong in what Ted did,'' O'Connell told me, swiveling in her office chair. ''I don't think you should extort money, but if you're going to contribute to research, and there's financial value in what you're contributing, the option should be there if you want to use it.'' 
 O'Connell has a unique perspective on these issues. She reached up, grabbed the rim of her turtleneck and yanked it down below her collar bone. ''I've got road work,'' she said, pointing to a complex mesh of scars covering her throat. ''Thyroid cancer. When I was 28.''
 Long before Slavin started selling his antibodies, O'Connell discovered that her cells were loaded with even more gold than his. Scientists were in the midst of developing a thyroid test, and O'Connell's blood had precisely what they needed for it. ''My numbers were way higher than Ted's,'' she told me, wiggling her eyebrows. A doctor took one look at her blood and asked for more. ''I said, Sure, be my guest,'' she said. Those scientists developed a valuable test; she received no money and didn't think twice about it. She figures that's what most people would do.
 ''Sure,'' she said, ''there are some greedy people who will try to get anything they can, but most people won't demand money for their tissues unless they really need it, like Ted did.'' 
 Many, like O'Connell, have simply donated valuable tissues. For others, it's about control: several patient groups have created their own tissue banks so they can control the use of their tissues. Some object to patenting and require that results from research on their tissues remain publicly available; others do the opposite. One woman became a patent holder on the disease gene discovered in her children's tissues, which lets her determine what research is done on it and how it is licensed. While most haven't gone after profits, some have. And experts on both sides of the debate worry that profit-seekers might inhibit progress by insisting on unrealistic financial agreements or demanding money for tissues used in noncommercial and nonprofit research. But as long as patients are reasonable and don't inhibit science, many researchers seem open to the idea of including them.
 ''Hey, this is a capitalist society,'' says Wayne W. Grody, a U.C.L.A. molecular geneticist who has been at the center of this debate for years. ''People like Slavin took advantage of that. You know, the way I see it is, If you think of doing that on the front end, more power to you.''

Question of Consent
 The difference between Ted Slavin and John Moore wasn't that Slavin owned his tissues and Moore didn't. (No court ruled that Slavin had the right to control his excised tissues; he just did it.) The difference was information. Someone told Slavin that his tissues were special and that scientists might want them. So he was able to control his tissues by establishing his terms before anything left his body. In other words, he was informed, and he gave consent. In the end, the question isn't whether people have the ability to control their tissues; it is how much science should be obligated (ethically and legally) to put them in the position to do so. 
 There is a federal law governing consent in human research. The Federal Policy for the Protection of Human Subjects, aka the Common Rule, requires that scientists tell people if they are participating in research, that the research is voluntary and that they can withdraw at any time without penalty. Consent forms must explain what the research is, how long it will last, any possible risks, whether participants will be compensated and more.
 The Common Rule sounds like precisely what tissue rights advocates are fighting for. But it isn't. The problem is, it was written to govern research on living, breathing humans, not their disembodied tissues. Its basic framework was adopted in 1981 and not updated to address the consent and ownership issues raised by the Moore case. It only covers federally financed research. Samples are exempt if they are anonymous (though assuring anonymity is difficult), ''existing'' and ''publicly available'' (though it doesn't define either term). In the end, much of tissue research is not governed by the Common Rule. 
 Supporters of the status quo argue that passing new, tissue-specific legislation is unnecessary. They point to science's internal oversight mechanisms: academic institutions (and many private companies) have institutional review boards that decide whether consent is needed for tissue research. There are many professional guidelines, like the American Medical Association's code of ethics (which requires doctors to inform patients if their tissue samples might lead to profits). But guidelines aren't laws; they are suggestions. And many tissue rights supporters say these internal mechanisms don't work.
 At this point, there is no uniformity, no standard and no guidance for how to proceed when it comes to consent and tissue research. Some institutions -- like the Fox Chase Cancer Center -- ask permission to keep tissues and let patients specify what research their samples will be used for. But others don't. The norm is still a sentence or two saying leftover blood and tissue can be used for education and research. When it comes to profits, some consent forms come right out and say, ''We may give or sell the specimen and certain medical information about you.'' Others skip disclosure or say, ''You will receive no reimbursement for donating tissue.'' Still others admit confusion: ''Your sample will be owned by [the university].. . .It is unknown whether you will be able to gain (participate in) any financial compensation (payment) from any benefits gained from this research.''
 Ellen Wright Clayton, a physician and lawyer who is a director of the Center for Biomedical Ethics and Society at Vanderbilt University, says that the next step should be a ''very public conversation.'' Clayton says: ''If someone presented a bill in Congress that said, As of today, when you go to the doctor for health care, your medical records and tissue samples can be used for research and nobody has to ask you -- if the issue were stated that bluntly so people could really understand what's happening and say they're O.K. with it, that would make me more comfortable with what we're currently doing. Because what's happening now is not what people think is going on.''
 Lori Andrews wants something more drastic: she recently published an article calling for people to get policy makers' attention through becoming ''conscientious objectors in the DNA draft'' by refusing to give tissue samples. ''This isn't about trying to get patients a cut of the financial action,'' she says. ''It's about allowing people to express their desires.'' Clayton agrees. ''It's weird to say everybody gets money except the people providing the raw material,'' she says. ''But the fundamental problem here isn't the money; it's the notion that the people these tissues come from don't matter.''
 David Korn, senior vice president of the Association of American Medical Colleges, agrees that patients matter. But he also argues that tissue consent is shortsighted. ''Sure,'' he says, ''consent feels nice. Letting people decide what's going to happen with their tissue seems like the right thing to do. But consent diminishes the value of tissue.'' To illustrate this, Korn points to the Spanish flu pandemic. In the 1990's, scientists used stored tissue samples from a soldier who died in 1918 to recreate the virus's genome and study why it was so deadly, with hopes of uncovering information about the current avian flu. Asking that soldier's permission to take tissues for future genetic research would have been impossible, Korn says. ''Think back to 1918,'' he told me. ''It was an inconceivable question!''
 For Korn, the consent issue is overshadowed by a public responsibility to science: ''I think people are morally obligated to allow their bits and pieces to be used to advance knowledge to help others. Since everybody benefits, everybody can accept the small risks of having their tissue scraps used in research.'' But he does say that religious beliefs are grounds for exception. ''If somebody says being buried without all their pieces will condemn them to wandering forever because they can't get salvation, that's legitimate, and people should respect it,'' Korn says. (Though he acknowledges that people can't raise those objections if they don't understand their tissues are being used in the first place.) 
 Wayne W. Grody, the U.C.L.A. molecular geneticist, was once a fierce opponent of consent for tissue research. But after years of debating with people like Andrews and Clayton, he has become more moderate. ''I'm pretty convinced that we should go the extra mile to have a good and complex consent process,'' he told me. Still, he can't imagine how it will work. ''These tissues enter a pipeline of millions of other samples,'' he said. ''How are you going to distinguish, well, this patient said we can study colon cancer; the next one said we can do anything we want, but we can't commercialize it. I mean, do they all have to be color-coded? I can't imagine.'' Regardless, Grody stresses that questions of consent should only apply to the collection of future samples, not the millions already stored. (''What are we going to do?'' he says, ''Throw them out?'') 
 If the issue of consent isn't addressed, Robert F. Weir, founder of the biomedical ethics center at the University of Iowa and an author of ''The Stored Tissue Issue,'' sees only one outcome: ''Patients turn to law as a last resort when they don't see their participation being acknowledged.'' Weir favors fewer lawsuits and more disclosure. ''Let's get these things on the table and come up with legal guidelines we can all live with,'' he says. ''Because going to court is the only other option.''

The Case That Could Change Everything
 William Catalona is undeniably one of the top prostate surgeons in the world. He is surgeon to sheiks, to Stan Musial and Joe Torre, as well as thousands of other men. But he's also a researcher. Which is why he and his patients ended up in a federal courtroom in St. Louis a year ago, in the first case to bring together all the biggest tissue issues: ownership, consent, control and a patient's right to withdraw from tissue research. 
 Catalona started collecting prostate-cancer samples in the late 80's. Today, the collection -- one of the largest in the world -- fills more than a dozen industrial freezers. It has resulted in some of the most important prostate-cancer advances (among other things, he used it to show that the P.S.A. test can predict most prostate cancer). The collection is vast: more than 4,000 prostate samples and 250,000 blood samples from 36,000 men. Some of these men came to him through newspaper and radio ads he placed seeking donors. Some came from other doctors. But many were his patients.
 Catalona was committed to informing his patients: he provided detailed consent forms explaining the research and its risks, and his consent forms said, ''Your participation is voluntary, and you may choose not to participate in this research study or withdraw your consent at any time.'' He even sent a quarterly newsletter updating them on the studies. The problem was, Catalona and his patients saw things differently from his employer -- Washington University. 
 Several years ago, Washington University took possession of the samples. The collection could be worth more than $15 million. In letters that surfaced in court, a Washington University official complained that Catalona gave free tissue samples to collaborators at a biotech company and that all the university gained in exchange for its support of Catalona was ''the potential for Catalona to get a publication,'' which it saw as ''unacceptable.'' (Catalona isn't business savvy: he never tried to patent his specific use of the P.S.A. test, which could have made millions.) The university invested millions of dollars in developing that collection, it said: money for freezers, lab technicians, the building where he stored them. Some of that money came from multimillion-dollar federal research grants that Catalona brought into the university; some came from his patients. But the university paid Catalona's salary and his health, malpractice and liability insurance; his contract said it owned his intellectual property. Therefore, the university argued, it owned those tissue samples. 
 So Catalona quit. He moved his lab to Northwestern University in Chicago and then sent letters to 10,000 patients, saying, ''You have entrusted me with your samples, and I have used them for collaborative research that will help in your future medical care and in the care of others for years to come.'' To continue this work, he wrote, ''I need your assistance and your permission.'' He enclosed a form for them to sign that said: ''Please release all of my samples to Dr. Catalona at Northwestern University upon his request. I have entrusted these samples to Dr. Catalona to be used only at his direction and with his express consent for research purposes.'' Within weeks, 6,000 patients signed and returned those forms. But Washington University denied their requests. The university, it turned out, had distributed samples to scientists for research that the patients didn't know about. 
 ''I just wanted to help Dr. Catalona cure prostate cancer,'' one of his patients, Tom McGurk, told me when I met with him not long ago. ''Now who knows what's going on with that stuff?'' He shook his head. ''My DNA's in those samples -- that's my kid's and my grandkid's DNA, too. Who's looking at that stuff? What are they doing with it?'' For another patient, Richard Ward, the implications are concrete. His cancer ranked 8 on a 10-point malignancy scale -- if it comes back, his best chance for survival is treatment based on analysis of his tumor sample. He also worries about the genetics of the disease, which is hereditary. ''Washington University is saying they own part of our bodies,'' he told me. ''They're trying to preserve their financial interest over our lives and our kids' lives. . .just thinking about that makes me crazy.''
 Their consent forms said, ''I have donated a tissue and/or blood sample for Doctor William Catalona's research studies.'' They didn't mention giving them to Washington University. So when Washington University refused to transfer their samples, several patients asked that their tissues be removed from the collection, since their consent forms said they could withdraw from the research any time. The university refused; it read that provision of the consent form to mean that if asked, the university would take a person's identifying information off the sample but keep using the tissue anonymously. 
 In August 2003, Washington University sued Catalona to establish ownership of the collection. The suit said Catalona had, among other things, ''improperly accessed the university's patient list'' and asserted ''an unsupported claim of personal ownership and/or control over'' the samples. Catalona countered that neither he nor the university could own the samples, because they belonged to the patients. The judge asked for patient testimony. So Catalona began contacting his patients. And they did more than testify; several petitioned to join the lawsuit as intervenors -- parties who, despite not being named in a lawsuit, voluntarily enter a suit to protect their interests.
 Catalona cannot talk specifics about the case, but he has plenty to say about the issues involved. ''The truth,'' he told me, ''is that the interests of patients and science often conflict with the interests of the university. And sometimes universities protect their interests to the detriment of the patients.'' The only solution, he said, is disclosure: ''If you're honest with patients, and they understand what you're doing, they'll let you use their tissues -- they want to advance science as much as we do. But they have to understand the deal going in.'' The problem is, Catalona's patients thought they knew the deal going in, but Washington University disagreed. Don Clayton, a university spokesman, said that if patients are able to ''reclaim'' or ''redirect'' their blood and tissues, biobanks will become ''impossible to manage'' and ''so burdensome that scientists will be handcuffed.''
 For Ellen Wright Clayton, from the Vanderbilt biomedical ethics center, this case comes down to defining the Common Rule in the way its authors intended. She took the stand as an expert witness to argue that though the Common Rule doesn't specifically say patients can withdraw their tissues from research, that's only because it was written before tissues were an issue. But given the spirit of the rule -- protecting patients from becoming unwilling research participants -- what else, she argued, could it mean? Anonymizing tissues and continuing to use them in research against the wishes of the patients, she said, ''completely eviscerates the right to withdraw.'' It also diminishes their usefulness to research and the patient's future medical care.
 The Catalona case is the first of its kind to make it to trial. (Other disagreements over tissue collections have surfaced, but they were settled.) Catalona's patients have no intention of settling; they want to set a precedent. Theirs will be the first case to define a patient's right to withdraw from tissue research (which may or may not give people the right to remove their samples from research at any time). It is also the first to question patients' property rights in basic stored tissues. Unlike the Moore case, in which the ownership issue was complicated by the fact that Golde ''transformed'' Moore's samples, the Catalona case is stark, because Washington University didn't do anything innovative to those samples. It simply stored them. Which means Catalona is the first to deal with pure raw materials and the question of who owns them. 
 It has been a year since the Catalona hearing, and the judge still has not ruled. The losing side will probably appeal. The case could eventually reach the Supreme Court, but that could take a decade, maybe longer. This means that the world's biggest prostate-cancer collection will be tied up in a lawsuit instead of advancing science, which infuriates the patients, Catalona and everyone else involved, including Lori Andrews, who advised the patients' attorney. ''Those patients donated tissues to facilitate research on prostate cancer,'' she told me, ''not to bring it to a halt because of questions about the university's profits.''
 There is one point that comes up again and again in discussions of Slavin and Moore and Catalona: like it or not, we live in a market-driven society, and science is part of that market. For Baruch Blumberg, the researcher who used Ted Slavin's antibodies in his hepatitis B research, that is a reality that science is still learning to navigate. 
 During my visits to the Fox Chase Cancer Center to meet with O'Connell and learn about Slavin, I drove around Philadelphia with Blumberg, who is now 80. After decades of hepatitis B research, he needed a break from focusing on so much illness, suffering and death, and so he spent a few years working with NASA, studying the origin of life forms. 
 In the car one evening, I asked Blumberg what he thought about the debate over tissue ownership. Instead of answering, he told me how the technology for air bags came from medical devices designed by NASA. I asked again, and he pointed out Venus and Mars, which were bright and hovering above us. Finally, after my third try, he turned to me and sighed. ''Whether you think the commercialization of medical research is good or bad depends on how into capitalism you are,'' he said. On the whole, Blumberg said, commercialization is good -- how else would we get the drugs and diagnostic tests we need? Still, he sees a downside. ''I think it's fair to say it's interfered with science,'' he told me, gazing up at the sky. ''It's changed the spirits.'' Now there are patents and proprietary information where there was free information flow, he said.
 ''Researchers have become entrepreneurs,'' he went on. ''That's really boomed our economy and created incentives to do research. But it's also brought problems, like secrecy and arguments over who owns what.'' He worries about similar changes in patients. ''I had tremendous respect for Ted's attitude,'' Blumberg said, staring out the window. ''He needed to make a living, so he took his blood, which had been his great disaster in life, and turned it into his fortune.'' But Slavin didn't get rich off his antibodies. ''He donated much of them to science for free,'' Blumberg said. ''He didn't have to do that.'' 
 Slavin and Blumberg never used consent forms or ownership transfer agreements; Slavin just held up his arm and gave samples. ''We lived in a different ethical and commercial age,'' Blumberg said. He imagines patients might be less likely to donate now: ''They probably want to maximize their commercial possibilities just like everyone else.'' Blumberg is concerned about profits inhibiting science from either side of the scientific equation: researchers or patients. 
 All that important research he has done over the years -- the hepatitis test and vaccine, discovering the link between the virus and cancer -- it all depended on free and unlimited access to tissues. Blumberg says he doesn't think keeping patients in the dark is the way to get that access, and he has a unique point of reference: Ted Slavin. ''For somebody like Ted,'' he told me, ''who really needed that money to survive, it would have been wrong to say scientists could commercialize those antibodies but he couldn't. You know, if someone was going to make money off his antibodies, why shouldn't he have a say in that?''


GRAPHIC: Drawings: Artworks by Marcel Dzama

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); RODENTS (89%); DEREGULATION (77%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); SCIENCE FUNDING (75%); LITIGATION (74%); HEPATITIS (73%); HEPATITIS B (71%); ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS (70%); CANCER (70%); LEGISLATION (69%); VACCINES (68%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (68%) Medicine and Health; Suits and Litigation; Law and Legislation; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Research; Prostate Gland; Blood; Tissue (Human); Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: Washington University (St Louis)

PERSON: William J (Dr) Catalona; Rebecca Skloot

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (74%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (72%) MISSOURI, USA (74%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (74%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



346 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 4-16-06; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Way Upstairs, Downstairs

BYLINE: By walter Kirn. 
Walter Kirn, a frequent contributor, is the author, most recently, of ''Mission to America,'' a novel.

 BODY:
There are studies that prove it, but I don't need to read them. I've seen the prices on the menus. I've also seen the pay stubs of the cooks. I've stood in the mansions, let in by the maids, and listened to the string quartets, whose players I've met in the coat aisle at Goodwill. I know what's going on. As predicted, but much faster than anticipated, the rich in America are getting richer (at rates that favor the very rich and the superrich). And at the same time, as wasn't quite predicted but still seems faster than anticipated, the nonrich are getting almost nowhere.
What I didn't know was that my knowledge shouldn't bother me. 
 Not according to John Snow, still, at this writing, secretary of the U.S. Treasury, who nonchalantly told a journalist recently, ''What's been happening in the United States for about 20 years is'' a ''long-term trend to differentiate compensation.'' ''Long-term,'' when used this way by this sort of official, tends to mean ''fundamentally unstoppable.'' And, in this case, inexplicable, like a sort of financial global-warming process that may be man-made or (who knows?) a natural cycle that we would welcome if only we knew its function. Snow, a trained economist and former corporate C.E.O., doesn't pretend to be able to explain what's causing this whole compensation differential. Nor does he seem tortured by his ignorance. ''We've moved into a star system for some reason,'' he said, ''which is not fully understood.''
 As a nonrich noneconomist, I don't know why what's happening is happening either. But I can remember when it wasn't happening, at least not so rapidly and spectacularly. Time: The 1970's. Place: The countryside north of Minneapolis. I'm attending public grade school and junior high, watching what little TV there was to watch then and bumping into rich folks on occasion. At school, in my social-studies classes, I'm learning about a condition known as ''poverty,'' which mainly exists, my textbooks indicate, in two obscure locations: ''Appalachia'' and ''the ghetto.'' (It's a terrible situation, but it's improving some.) From television, on ''Gilligan's Island,'' I'm learning about tycoons. (They wear blazers and speak in nasal voices.) And from actual rich people, whom I know are rich because I've heard my parents whisper about them, I'm learning that having lots of money means driving renamed Fords and Chevys called Lincolns and Cadillacs. They possess more leg room than Fords and Chevys, but mechanically they're the same, my father says.
 Such innocence. Such miniature wisdom. Poverty: Bad, related to geography and something we're rightly trying to end. Tycoons: A ridiculous species of the rich. The rich: What Lincolns are to Fords. Conclusion: We're all Americans, mechanically.
 But then came the dawning of the long-term star system, a phenomenon so extensive and mysterious (even to educated Treasury secretaries) that I sense it may soon become immune to human cognition in the manner of the vastest things. Gravity. Time. The national debt.
 It doesn't help that the vocabulary of wealth and poverty hasn't been adjusted for inflation since the heyday of dimwitted 1960's TV comedy. We still call the very rich among us millionaires, even though lots of them are closer to billionaires. Words fail reality at the other end too. In 1974, I knew exactly what the grown-ups meant when they called a person ''poor.'' They meant he could barely feed or clothe himself. Today that's still what I think poor means, but to friends of mine in their 20's and early 30's, it seems to mean something more like ''short on cash.'' Their favored terms for passers-by who appear to be living on the edge are ''practically homeless,'' ''doomed'' and, sometimes, ''psycho'' -- words that refer less to having less than to somehow being less. The condition once described by ''poor'' -- having nothing in a chronic fashion and not because of a temporary money crunch caused by lavish spending; and having nothing for many possible reasons, but not necessarily or chiefly because the person is damned or insane or a social untouchable -- has been orphaned by ordinary speech. It's a simple idea without a simple word now.
 Meanwhile, the nonsimple words are taking over. The words with 11 bedrooms and 7 baths that are larger and finer than rich folks needed before the ''differentiation'' -- which isn't merely an economic trend but a style, an aesthetic. ''Since the early 1980's on,'' Secretary Snow said, ''we've seen a rise in inequality, but we've also seen parallel to that a continuous rise in living standards.'' To know what he means, you would have to read the studies, but to know how he feels, you just have to hear his diction.
 To my ear, the man sounds satisfied. And convinced that his listeners should be satisfied too.
 But my ears are small, predifferentiation ears, their canals wide enough for only simple words and simple ideas. ''Rich.'' ''Poor.'' ''Unfair.'' My eyes have a similar limitation. I see a person wearing jeans, and I can't imagine that he's a millionaire. I see a person I'm told is worth a billion and wonder why he's not wearing a tie. I see his Bentley and mistake it for a Lincoln, which is really just a Ford, and then out of that Ford steps a major movie star. I see a Cadillac, and I find out that it belongs to an immigrant gypsy-cab driver who shares it with his two brothers-in-law and parks it in the garage where all of them live.
 The Treasury secretary may have a point, though. It's all mysterious. 
 In the limited sense of confusing, it sure is. But on ''Gilligan's Island,'' if the Skipper or the Professor deemed some occurrence ''mysterious,'' what I remember him doing next was to quiver and then run off and warn the others.

 The ratio of average C.E.O. pay to the average pay of ordinary workers: 1990-2004
 Source: Institute for Policy Studies and United for a Fair Economy. C.E.O. compensation based on Business Week annual compensation surveys; pay of average worker based on Bureau of Labor Statistics data.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Mark Peterson
 Redux)''SUPERRICH''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); TEXTBOOKS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); TRENDS (68%); WRITERS (68%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (57%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (57%); GLOBAL WARMING (51%) United States Economy; English Language; Income

PERSON: Walter Kirn

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



347 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 4871 words

HEADLINE: Christianity, the Brand

BYLINE: By Strawberry Saroyan. 
Strawberry Saroyan is the author of ''Girl Walks Into a Bar,'' a memoir.

 BODY:
It was around noon on a sunny Tuesday last winter at Saddleback Church in Lake Forest, Calif., and Larry Ross, arguably the top public relations man for Christian clients in America, was presiding over a media briefing on behalf of the church, its pastor, Rick Warren, and his wife, Kay. The occasion was the Warrens' three-day H.I.V./AIDS conference, ''Disturbing Voices.'' When Jim Towey, the director of the Bush administration's Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives, walked in, Ross acknowledged him and noted that Towey had been the longtime lawyer for Mother Teresa. Then Ross opened the floor to questions.
''Yeah,'' Warren said into his mike. ''I'd like to know why Mother Teresa needed a lawyer.'' The crowd cracked up. No one answered, but it was the kind of question that might have been asked about Warren himself: Why does Rick Warren need a public relations man? 
 Of course, in his case, there's an easy explanation. Warren's book ''The Purpose-Driven Life'' has sold more than 25 million copies, making it the best-selling hardcover book of nonfiction ever published in the United States, and some say Saddleback has more in common with Google or Starbucks, at least in scope, than the typical church. Warren has a public and a brand to manage.
 But when you speak to Ross for even a short length of time, it becomes clear that he sees himself as serving more than Rick Warren -- or Billy Graham, or the men's ministry Promise Keepers, or films like ''The Passion of the Christ'' (he has represented them all). The Kingdom of God itself is a client of sorts. Publicity, marketing and branding are his ministry. So the real question becomes, Why does God need someone to sell him?
 It is a query Ross has spent the last 25 years answering. In 1981, Ross began working with the evangelist Billy Graham and trailblazing the new world of Christian P.R. Ross has counseled Graham through the Nixon-tapes crisis (Graham was heard voicing anti-Semitic sentiments to the president) and helped keep him squeaky clean during the televangelist scandals of the 80's. And earlier this month, when Graham made the New York Times extended best-seller list with his book ''The Journey,'' Ross could be heard pitching him as the oldest author ever on the list. Ross has also represented T. D. Jakes, the African-American pastor whom Ross says he signed when he was ''Bishop Who,'' and films like the prophetic end-times ''Left Behind'' series and ''The Prince of Egypt.'' For the latter, an animated movie that came out in 1998, he helped pioneer some of the contemporary church-marketing techniques that were used later to promote Mel Gibson's ''Passion of the Christ.'' Ross has largely stayed out of politics, but he did sign up Rod Parsley's Center for Moral Clarity in 2004; Parsley, a rising evangelical, is not publicly aligned with a political party, but he worked to mobilize voters in the swing state of Ohio, which went for George Bush in the last election.
 Ross is not the sole powerful figure in Christian P.R., but only Mark DeMoss, who worked with Jerry Falwell for eight years before starting the DeMoss Group in Atlanta in 1991, enjoys comparable status. Ross, who is 52, has witnessed -- and most likely contributed to -- the increased attention to Christianity in the wider culture. He notes that some of the biggest national stories since 9/11 have touched on faith, including Gibson's film, the ''values voters'' and even Hurricane Katrina (''We're the good news behind the bad news,'' Ross says, referring to the consolations of faith in the wake of natural disasters, as well as the welcome that religious voices often receive in the press in such situations). And Christian-product markets are expanding rapidly. ''The Chronicles of Narnia'' took in more than $290 million at the box office domestically last winter. (''The Passion'' grossed $370 million.) Christian music now racks up $700 million in sales annually. In 2004, sales of religious books reached $1.9 billion. Packaged Facts, a market-research firm, predicts that Christian products will generate $9.5 billion in sales by 2010. Then there's the Bush factor. ''Any time religion is linked to power, attention to religious news increases,'' says Debra Mason, executive director of the Religion Newswriters Association.
 In Hollywood, there is Paul Lauer's Motive Entertainment (Lauer orchestrated the marketing of ''The Passion'' by enlisting 15 firms, including Ross's, to handle different tasks) and Jonathan Bock's Grace Hill Media, whose projects have included ''Narnia.'' Other marketing firms include the Internet-focused BuzzPlant, based in Tennessee, and Renegade Idea Group, out of Texas. Ross claims that in the past decade smaller firms have emerged that handle Christian P.R., which he differentiates from marketing (his firm handles both). Ross works with many of them and acts as a sort of Vernon Jordan of the Bible Belt, making introductions and forging strategic alliances.
 Ross opened his company, A. Larry Ross Communications (his first name is Arthur), in 1994, after a 13-year stay at Walter Bennett Communications, where he first began working with Billy Graham. When the agency urged him to focus on expanding a P.R. base that included secular clients because Graham wasn't ''the future,'' Ross and his wife, Autumn, took what was supposed to be a down payment on a house and started a business instead; she calls the step ''a bungee jump for God.'' (Autumn is not involved in the firm's day-to-day business.) Today the Dallas-based firm has 13 staff members and roughly 20 to 30 clients at any given time. Ross says that he rarely chases after a client and is able to operate on the principle of attraction, relying on good word of mouth and referrals to win clients. (DeMoss claims to work this way, too, and the two say they are not competitive with each other, although they have represented half a dozen of the same clients at different times.) Ross, quoting Autumn, characterizes his clients as ''anybody that we will be with in heaven someday.'' While he declines to be specific, he does admit to annual billings ''in the seven figures.'' When asked if a client like Rick Warren helps to underwrite the cost of a client with fewer financial resources, Ross replies, ''That's not the way it works.'' He says the firm bills according to time, with rates varying according to the experience of those assigned to a client.
 I visited Ross in Dallas over several days in November. At our first meeting there, he rolled up in a giant black Chevy Avalanche. He is 6-foot-8, and as I took him in, perhaps wide-eyed, he laughed. ''I don't do medium,'' he said in his Texas twang. ''Everything is Paul Bunyan-size to me.'' It was a Sunday, and we were off to his church, Bent Tree Bible Fellowship. Autumn and their oldest son, Harrison, then 17, were appearing in a musical skit during each of Bent's Tree's services that day. Ross, perhaps feeling guilty for being on the road so often, was planning to attend three of them. Later he would tell me that his battle with workaholism was one of the defining issues of his personal life: ''If I was a vacuum-cleaner salesman working 100 hours a week, people would say: 'You're an idiot. You're crazy.' When you're in ministry, they say, 'Praise God.'''
 When we arrived, I met Autumn, a big-haired brunette dressed in an emerald green suit, and her and Ross's three sons: Harrison, Richard, then 15, and Cameron, 10. Ross, who is gregarious and jokey -- at the Saddleback press conference, he looked at Warren's Hawaiian shirt and remarked, apropos his own, more formal attire, ''Out of deference to our hosts, I do have pineapple boxers on'' -- sang along enthusiastically and took notes when the service hit full swing. Afterward we went backstage, where Autumn was conversing with her fellow volunteers, and the talk turned to what attracted her to Bent Tree. ''It allows me to be contemporary, but it's not watered down,'' she said. ''I feel like I'm eating steak every Sunday.''
 Ross's religion is conspicuously central to his work and life -- our second meeting, with his entire staff, started with a prayer -- and that is one of the things that draw clients to him. ''We're church guys, O.K.?'' David Chrzan, Rick Warren's chief of staff, told me. ''Media is a totally different animal to us.'' Chrzan says that Ross has been able to help Warren by providing access to and connections within the world of mainstream media -- and also through his ability to spin various situations into, well, Christian parables. Take the case of Ashley Smith, the Atlanta woman who became famous last year for reading passages from ''The Purpose-Driven Life'' to her captor, an escaped murder suspect named Brian Nichols. A problem arose when it came out that Smith had given Nichols crystal methamphetamine. ''What did everyone talk about?'' Chrzan said. ''They talked about her drug use and her giving drugs'' to Nichols. Ross helped Warren respond to this mainstream reaction by emphasizing their story, which was, in Chrzan's words: ''God can use anybody. Here, God used a tweaked-out speed freak to get a guy to realize he'd done something wrong and turn himself in.''
 Ross characterizes part of his job as finding the sweet spot where faith and the culture intersect, because religion on its own often isn't enough, as he sees it, to generate mainstream press. He offers his handling of T.D. Jakes as a typical example. Today Jakes is the pastor of the Potter's House in South Dallas, one of the fastest-growing churches in the country, with 30,000 members; he is also behind the ''Woman, Thou Art Loosed'' novel, film and gatherings, and he created the Metroplex Economic Development Corporation, which sponsors homeownership conferences and organizes training sessions for would-be entrepreneurs. After listening to hours and hours of the pastor's sermons, Ross realized that what might appeal to a broader audience were Jakes's efforts to economically empower African-American youth -- Jakes was a business story, in other words. Not long after that, Jakes landed a Page 1 profile in The Wall Street Journal. It was the preacher's first major national exposure.
 Ross also has an eye for the odd coupling. He booked Rod Parsley, a flamboyant Charismatic Pentecostal and a staple of Christian television, including the Trinity Broadcasting Network (the world's largest Christian network), on ''Dennis Miller'' and ''Larry King Live.'' A client known as Dino, a sort of Liberace in Christian circles who plays a crystal-covered piano, told me that Ross tried to get him onto ''Jimmy Kimmel Live,'' the late-night talk show, during the holiday season (the two sides couldn't settle on a date). ''Larry thought I might be off the wall enough,'' Dino said.
 Perhaps the most intensive training that Ross offers is his ''media and spokesperson'' sessions. These can last as long as two days and usually include several mock interviews, which are taped. Ross encourages his clients to engage the media, but he wants to prepare them for worst-case encounters, so he administers tough questioning. To loosen clients up, he shows them an old ''Bob Newhart'' episode in which a talk-show host suddenly turns on Newhart. ''It's one of the funniest things I've ever seen,'' Ross says. He advises clients to avoid ecclesiastical language when addressing the mainstream (''Somebody talks about the Holy Ghost or the Army of God -- that sounds like a revolution and it's coming out of Iran,'' says Lawrence Swicegood, who has worked for Ross and DeMoss) and to use metaphors because they stick in people's minds. Toward the end of a session, Ross looses a ''bulldog'' interrogator, a role played these days by Giles Hudson, a former writer for the Associated Press, who poses questions ranging from financial queries to ''Do homosexuals go to hell?'' ''Obviously not,'' Hudson says is a good response to this challenge. ''Each person has their own relationship to Christ. People don't just go to hell because you're an alcoholic.'' Sometimes Ross and Hudson add a separate, ambush interview. After taking a ''break'' from a session with Promise Keepers, Ross's team confronted its president in the reception area, camera crew in tow.
 On a Monday morning last November, Ross gathered his staff for a devotional around a rectangular table in the firm's conference room. Ross read a passage about the battle of Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, who drew on God's strength to do battle. ''How many times do we, even in our work on behalf of clients, feel like it's on us to go out there and slay a few dragons or whatever?'' he asked. ''There's a difference between doing God's will and doing our will in God's name.'' A woman in a dark blazer, Roe Ann Estevez, whose clients include Promise Keepers, nodded. After praying, the group broke up for coffee and bagels, laid out in gingham-lined baskets. I took the opportunity to check out the offices, which occupy a suite on the second floor of a low gray building in a North Dallas office park. Beside the desk of the receptionist, Susan Gromatzky, there was a plaque: '''When God is your client, eternity is in each account' -- Proverb 16:3.'' A nearly footlong brass key rested on a side table; Gromatzky said it was part of Autumn Ross's collection of keys. Did it refer obliquely to the Kingdom? Gromatzky nodded yes.
 Ross's first meeting that day was at the Dallas Theological Seminary. Ross and Hudson were upbeat when we arrived at the school's leafy 17-acre campus. A seminary staff member named Robert Riggs greeted us. As we followed him, the subject of press releases came up. ''I love the headline that we've got for 'Left Behind,''' Hudson said, referring to the third and most recent in a series of movies based on the popular books about the Second Coming; ''Left Behind: World at War'' had come out a few weeks earlier. ''It talks about 'The End of America Coming to a Church Near You.''' He and Ross looked amused. (The film's marketing included having it open in churches instead of theaters last fall.)
 Once we were settled in our second conference room of the day, I asked Riggs what his role was. Ross interrupted: ''Wait, I thought you were Giles's parole officer. Isn't that why we're here?'' The three bantered and waited several minutes for the school's president, Mark Bailey, to arrive but soon gave up and turned to the first item on the agenda. The seminary was introducing podcasts that would address pop-culture phenomena like ''The Da Vinci Code'' from a Christian point of view, and Ross's team had put together a press release. ''Putting God in the Pod'' was its headline.
 There was a moment of silence after Riggs read it. He grimaced. ''The title of putting God somewhere -- it implies that he's not everywhere,'' he said. ''Can we do something else?''
 Hudson thought about it. ''Can we take out 'putting'? And then it's just God in the Pod, and it acknowledges he's already there?''
 Ross said he believed that would take care of the problem. Riggs concurred. ''That would cover me.''
 When Bailey showed up, he seconded the original concern (''That, I think, is a little over the top,'' he said), but he agreed it was catchy. The final decision was to headline the release ''Putting the Message of God in the Pod.'' 
 In some ways, Ross finds it easy to reconcile the sacred and the profane. Part of the evangelical approach is to be ''in the culture but not of it,'' and it has been argued that Ross's profession has its antecedents in the work of Jesus himself. ''You talk about a show stopper,'' Jerry Beavan, who organized Graham's crusades from 1950 to 1962, told me, referring to Jesus and making the point that there's nothing wrong with promoting the Gospel. ''He raised people from the dead.'' In 1925, a best seller, ''The Man Nobody Knows,'' written by Bruce Barton, a founder of what became the BBDO advertising agency, portrayed Jesus as the original businessman.
 Ross takes pains to distance himself from the more unsavory associations with publicists. Once he playfully asked me, ''So, where would a P.R. man fit on the social scale between used-car salesmen, lepers and incurable lepers?'' But he also tries to serve his two masters fairly. When he was working with ''The Early Show'' at CBS during a Graham crusade in 2005, he was approached by ''Good Morning America.'' He recapped the incident for me: ''Their ratings are significantly higher, but I said, 'I have to tell you, we're here with CBS, and we have to honor the fact.' I feel dutybound. It's not enough to do things right -- we have to do the right thing.'' Ross also said he is attuned to the spiritual needs of his colleagues in the media. On one occasion he spoke to a producer from a network newsmagazine for six hours, answering her personal questions about Christ. ''We have people who come to the crusades to report the story and put down their pens and microphones and commit to God,'' he said.
 Still, there's no evading all of the incongruities of combining P.R. and the Lord's work. One publicist's disaster can be another's divine intervention. Consider the example of Billy Graham's scheduled appearance on the Terry Wogan talk show in London in 1984. At the last minute, it was canceled, initially a cause for dismay. But here's how Ross described the rescheduled appearance, which took place several weeks later: ''I'll never forget it. It's an overcast day, O.K.? And they say, 'And now we're going to Billy Graham--''' Graham was appearing via satellite from Bristol, outdoors, where he was about to begin a crusade. ''Well, as soon as he started, the sky opened up. It was like, if you had the soundtrack for it, it would have been a choir going, 'Aaahh-haaa!' Terry Wogan went: 'Whoa! What just happened?' The skies opened up, and this beam of light came down on Billy.'' Ross concluded, ''I praise God for that.'' 
 Ross also says he believes he is helping to fight forces of evil and compares the unseen world in which he does battle with that in the ''Matrix'' films. ''I can't tell you how many times I've had a press conference at a crusade and the copier doesn't work'' -- a small example of what, he says, is ''spiritual warfare.'' A more striking instance took place when he was approached by a prostitute in the parking lot of his office while he was on his cellphone discussing AIDS programs for Africa with Rick Warren's wife, Kay. ''Is that coincidental?'' he said. ''Why is that?''
 Ross was raised by Christian parents mostly in Wheaton, Ill., where his father, Arthur, was a Greek New Testament scholar at Wheaton College's graduate school. His mother, Ruth, was a second-grade teacher. Ross says he ''accepted Christ into his heart'' at 5, after hearing the story of a little boy who froze to death but had, luckily, been ''saved'' beforehand. ''I remember being impressed with the upside of it,'' he says. He describes his adolescence as free of rebellion. ''I was the prodigal son's older brother -- you know, loyal in the field,'' he says. He does admit, though, to having attended 25 Grateful Dead concerts. Without drugs? ''I would go in an Army jacket with a couple of apples, and I would eat the apples,'' he told me. ''I just liked the music, you know?''
 One of Ross's first P.R. jobs, after he graduated from Wheaton, a private interdenominational Christian college, was at General Motors. He was hired in 1978 to travel the country in a blue van with 2,000 pounds of electronic and scientific equipment and to perform the company's long-running stage show, ''Previews of Progress,'' at junior-high and high schools. Ross says he had a blast performing tricks like the one in which a kid pushed him 50 feet across a stage using just a hair dryer. The students were wowed. But what may have been more important was that this was his first encounter with what you might call dual -- or at least multilayered -- marketing. ''If you're a reporter from The New York Times Magazine, I'd say, 'Oh, this is a noncommercial program for G.M. to get out into the community,' '' he told me. ''But in my heart of hearts. . .I knew, the real impact was when it came time for Mom and Dad to buy a car, Junior's at the table saying: 'Hey, let's go look at a G.M. car. I remember the car the G.M. man was in. It was really cool!'''
 When Ross talks today of operating on two tracks, it's not children's science and grown-up car sales he has in mind. What he means is mainstream and Christian. Take what he calls ''faith and family'' films. ''The average teenager sees 50 movies a year -- about one a week,'' he says. ''That makes Mel Gibson one of the high priests of our culture. We're forming values, and to be able to do that through entertainment, which is further upstream from politics, is huge.'' Ross's most high-profile job in this vein has been his work on ''The Passion.'' Initially he was brought in to help quell the controversy surrounding the film, and to that end he was instrumental in prompting the publication of several high-profile mainstream-media articles. Ross was also in charge of securing coverage in Christian print and online media. And he acted as facilitator too, introducing Gibson to Graham and dozens of other mover-and-shaker pastors, who got to see the film at previews Ross helped organize. He even hooked Gibson up with a clever telemarketing agency, the Broadcast Team, which had Gibson tape a message directed at pastors when they were likely to be out. ''They want an answering machine because then the pastor says, 'I just got a call from Mel Gibson!''' Ross told me. ''He plays it for his staff, he keeps it, he records it. It's viral. And it's less than 10 cents per call.''
 With ''Jonah: A Veggie Tales Movie,'' Ross and his former employee Lawrence Swicegood also applied two-track marketing techniques. Swicegood says they pitched ''Jonah'' to the mainstream as an all-stops-out special-effects extravaganza. ''But,'' he says, ''it was also 'Let's go to churches and influential religious leaders and have them preview it so they can recommend it to followers.''' So Ross created a marketing kit for the film that he distributed to about 10,000 churches, which was a practice he first employed on behalf of Graham in 1986, when he mailed out ''church communications packets'' to encourage prayers for an international evangelist conference. The free ''Veggie Tales'' packets included inserts for church bulletins and Sunday-school guides, a poster, a DVD of the trailer and a script for a pulpit announcement introducing the picture to churchgoers. Swicegood and Ross sent materials to specific members of congregations who were considered, in Swicegood's words, ''low-hanging fruit,'' like the pastors and teachers in charge of the church curriculums for elementary-age children. ''It's easy for them to embrace it, so you give them tools for them to e-mail to their constituents or families,'' Swicegood says. ''You can do an Evite -- 'Click here and see the trailer' and all that stuff.''
 Given his embrace of these tactics, it may seem surprising that Ross's work for the secular Creamer Dickson Basford P.R. agency in the early 80's -- which directly followed his job at G.M. -- ever came into conflict with his Christian principles. But he says the final straw was a four-hour meeting with Seagram's executives in which he and his colleagues were reprimanded for not doing enough to create ''franchise'' drinkers. The Creamer crew tried having cocktail waitresses bring out tumblers of VO whiskey and V8 as a new way to serve the product. But several of the six Seagram's executives didn't drink. ''I'm not talking about they didn't want to have a drink,'' Ross says. ''They were smart enough that they didn't drink.'' Disillusioned, Ross left Manhattan and moved into the nearly nonexistent profession of Christian P.R. On his way out the door, he says, his boss told him he was ''committing career suicide.''
 One afternoon in a Dallas coffee shop, I asked Ross about mistakes he has made. His director of accounts, a man named Phillip Roth, was sitting with us, and neither one made a sound. The only other time I had seen them this quiet was when they were praying. (Roth left Ross's firm last month for a job in secular P.R.) Finally, Ross admitted that there must have been some, but that he was still drawing a blank. (Ross eventually came up with several mistakes, ranging from overworking his staff when he took on too many clients to being quoted in connection with a controversial client when he had agreed to stay below the radar.)
 This struck me as a little odd -- if ever there was a landscape rife with moral swamps and pitfalls, wouldn't it be public relations? Yet this near-refusal to acknowledge anything other than the glowingly positive was a reaction I encountered several times in talking with Ross. It wasn't until later that I heard a possible explanation: according to what several Christians told me, Christians sometimes don't want to let on to anything negative because they fear it will reflect badly on God.
 It is these sorts of freighted complexities that Ross and his colleagues in the world of Christian P.R. grapple with. When I spoke with Mark DeMoss, he made it clear that it wasn't advisable to make oneself the story. ''My style is very, very understated and straightforward,'' he said. ''I'm not a big rah-rah kind of guy.'' He chuckled when asked if he meant to imply that Ross was more of a spinner than he. ''I was going to refer to my e-mail address -- I was going to refer to what it's not,'' he said. DeMoss was clearly referring to ''mrspinmeister,'' which several people had told me was Ross's online address. (When I asked Ross about it later, he said he stopped using the address last summer.) 
 Others, however, are willing to explain at some length why it's O.K. for Ross to do what he does. ''He chooses his clients well,'' says Joe Battaglia, who has known Ross for 25 years and runs Renaissance Communications, a marketing firm for companies that want to reach the Christian market. ''I've never known Larry to represent someone of questionable character. Of course, that may be subjective -- I mean, it really isn't,'' he says and laughs. ''It's always important to surround yourself with people you believe in.'' Someone like Ronn Torossian, whose 5W Public Relations has worked for Coca-Cola and McDonald's but who also represents the Trinity Broadcasting Network and Benny Hinn Ministries, is not so delicate, but he makes it clear that Ross and men like him are necessary in the current cultural climate. ''Larry Ross, DeMoss -- they're excellent communicators in terms of helping the media understand there really is a face to the person who votes Republican,'' Torossian says. ''Yes, there really is a face -- and he doesn't drool -- for the guy who votes against abortion.''
 Ross and his staff seem alternately comfortable and uncomfortable with the roles they play. One evening, Hudson appeared to fear being too candid. ''If 50 percent of America identifies itself as Christian, you'd think the dominant media of the day would reflect that,'' he said, but soon reprimanded himself. ''I said I was going to shut up. I have to shut up.'' It turns out that Ross isn't necessarily above criticism. Though he has said he takes on only clients who will reflect well on Billy Graham, Ross's client Rod Parsley had his church governance and fund-raising practices questioned in an article last winter in the left-leaning American Prospect. (Ross says that much of what was reported occurred ''way before our time'' and is ''not consistent with the man and the organization'' he has been working with for the past 18 months.) When I returned from my time with Ross in Dallas, I found that he had also worked with Benny Hinn, who has been criticized for everything from preaching the prosperity gospel to making supposedly false claims of healing. Instead of admitting as much, Ross borrowed a page from the politician's playbook. He initially denied ''representing'' the pastor. Whoops, wrong word. Did he ''work'' with the pastor? Yes, he told me, on a consulting basis -- but he kept his distance for Billy Graham's sake, using letterhead that didn't identify his firm and never letting himself be quoted in print in association with Hinn.
 But Ross seems to be mostly at peace with his role and described it to me one afternoon this way: after invoking a biblical story about Moses' engagement in a lengthy battle for the children of Israel, he said: ''Moses stood there on top of a cliff, and as long as he held up his arms, the children of Israel won. Well, after a while he got tired, so there were two men that came and held up Moses' arms so they could win the battle. That's my job -- to hold up the arms of the man of God, like Billy Graham or Rick Warren, in the media.'' But his eyes really lighted up when he moved onto another topic -- the press reception Graham received during his New York crusade last June. ''He ended up doing 15 interviews, including all the major talk shows,'' Ross told me. ''At the press conference itself we had 250 journalists.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: (Photograph by Dan Winters)
Godspin: Some of Ross's clients, from left: Rev. Rod Parsley (center) and another preacher on ''Larry King Live''
Dino, a popular Christian pianist
a poster for ''Jonah: A Veggie Tales Movie''
Ross with Rev. Billy Graham at the Greater New York Crusade, 2005
with Rev. Rick Warren at Saddleback Church, 2005
at a Promise Keepers rally with Steve Chavis, the organization's director of communications, 2005. (From Left: Cnn
Dck Enterprises
Larry Ross
Billy Graham Evangelistic Association
Allison Cox/Purpose Driven
 Charles Ommanney/Contact Press Images.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (95%); MEN (89%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (89%); BESTSELLERS (87%); FILM (86%); LAWYERS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); LITERATURE (71%); WRITERS (71%); BRANDING (69%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (66%); ANIMATION (63%); ANIMATED FILMS (63%) Christians and Christianity; Books and Literature; Motion Pictures; Public Relations and Publicity; Biographical Information; Christians and Christianity

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BILLY GRAHAM EVANGELISTIC ASSOCIATION (59%) Promise Keepers (Orgn)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

PERSON: Billy (Rev) Graham; Larry (Publicist) Ross; Strawberry Saroyan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



348 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Another Day at the Races?

BYLINE: By Peter Thomas Fornatale. 
Peter Thomas Fornatale is the co-author of ''Six Secrets of Successful Bettors'' and the author of ''The Poker Aficionado.''

 BODY:
NEXT year, thoroughbred racing's biggest day, the Breeders' Cup, will be at Monmouth Park. This could either be a positive symbol of growth for the sport in New Jersey, or it could be its last hurrah. Horse racing -- both standardbred, or harness, and thoroughbred -- has been an important business in New Jersey since the 19th century as well as part of the culture (the state animal is the horse). 
 But racing's future in the state is in jeopardy. Unless a way to substantially increase revenue is found, the competition from neighboring states whose racetracks are armed with slot machines could cripple New Jersey's racing business. 
In recent years, the competitive landscape of horse racing has changed. Slot machines are about to begin operating or are already in use at Delaware, New York and Pennsylvania racetracks, greatly supplementing their revenue. This extra money has allowed them to increase racing purses. The only way that New Jersey racing has been able to stay competitive to this point is through what is known as the casino deal.
 In 2004, the Atlantic City casinos agreed to pay the racing industry $86 million over four years to increase prize money and breeding incentives for standardbreds and thoroughbreds. In return, the state put off moves to legalize racetrack slot machines that would compete with casinos. That deal, which will expire at the end of next year, should be extended -- and a look back over the last 30 years of horse racing in New Jersey explains why. 
 In 1976, the Meadowlands Sports Complex opened in East Rutherford. The racetrack at the complex was a success from the beginning, drawing more than 42,000 people on its opening night. The revenue the state knew it would get from the racetrack was one of the reasons that it was able to lure the Giants football team across the river from New York. To this day, the Meadowlands Racetrack is a key cog in New Jersey racing's machinery, offering up some of the best harness racing in the country. 
 About 10 years later, Garden State Park reopened in Cherry Hill. At the time it was billed as the racetrack of the 21st century, but the park barely made it there, closing in 2001. The problem was that despite its billing, the place was built for an earlier era, when racetracks -- not casinos -- were the main destination for America's gamblers. With its marble and mahogany details, and its outsized grandstand, Garden State Park was dead on arrival.
 Even in the short term, there's no way that racing in New Jersey will survive if the casino deal is not renewed. Tracks that don't have the added revenue from slot machines -- or a salve like the casino deal -- are going to founder just as surely as Garden State Park did. 
 From the casinos' point of view, with new competition coming at them from the slot machines at racetracks in Pennsylvania and New York, the addition of more in-state slots is only going to mean even more competition. 
 The casino deal is also good for the state, which has an interest in the health of both the casinos and the tracks. Besides maintaining green, open spaces (racetracks and horse farms) in the most densely populated state in the country, horse racing brings in lots of money. According to a 2005 study by the American Horse Council, the racing industry contributes more than $1.15 billion to New Jersey's gross domestic product and the equivalent of 21,380 full-time jobs. 
 Extending the casino deal would give New Jersey racing a chance to weigh the merits of various options for revamping itself that go beyond acquiring slot machines. You see, the racetracks charge their customers more than other gambling games and, at the same time, charge competitive out-of-state simulcast outlets too little. This allows competitors to take the track's best customers, meaning the tracks themselves only get a small share of the dollars wagered by the biggest bettors. 
 The way to fix this problem is to lower the price that the tracks take from each wager and charge more to competitive wagering outlets. Industry leaders are also working on other ideas for generating more revenue, like putting greater importance on already existing telephone and Internet wagering, building upscale off-track betting parlors throughout the state and creating a new ''destination'' racetrack in Atlantic City to draw in more gamblers. But all this will take time and money. 
 At the least, a continuation of the casino deal will buy time to address these issues and allow industry leaders to continue to work on these key issues and keep one of New Jersey's great traditions alive.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); GAMING (90%); HORSES (90%); SPORTS (89%); STATE PARKS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%) Horse Racing; Gambling; Casinos

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: Peter Thomas Fornatale

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Atlantic City (NJ); New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



349 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1847 words

HEADLINE: In Newark, A Rail Line Downtown

BYLINE: By STEVE STRUNSKY

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
LIKE limbs pared from an ailing tree, the trolley branches are long gone, and what is left of this city's 71-year-old subway system is a 4.3-mile main line that runs from Penn Station to neighboring Bloomfield to the north. 
 Most of the subway -- often referred to as a light-rail line -- runs above ground, including a long stretch along the southern edge of Branch Brook Park. But without the trolley branches, the subway is a linear system of limited use to a city sprawled out over 25 square miles.
The subway and its tributaries were a vital part of Newark before societal changes, including the race riots in 1967, sent businesses scurrying to other cities and middle-class white residents to neighboring suburbs, draining Newark of much of its economic vitality and shrinking its population to 280,000 from 438,000 after World War II.
 ''The Newark City Subway was one of the gems of the nation's transportation system,'' said James Greller, a transportation consultant and author. 
 This summer, in an effort to restore the subway as a crucial component of the city's economic, cultural and social life, New Jersey Transit will complete a milelong $207-million spur linking Penn Station and Broad Street Station -- a commuter rail terminal through which tens of thousands of suburbanites pass each day on their way to Manhattan -- with four downtown stops in between.
 Broad Street Station, which is viewed by some developers and business leaders here as the future gateway to downtown Newark, overlooks the chaotic, congested intersection of Broad, State and Grand streets, University Avenue, and Interstate 280 entrance and exit ramps, which converge amid pedestrian crosswalks under a concrete canopy of highway and railroad overpasses. The 1725 John Plume House, passed by Washington's army in its retreat from Long Island and the site where the Rev. Hannibal Goodwin made an important advance in film technology in 1887, sits forlornly at the belching intersection, soot-stained and paint-chipped, and literally overshadowed by the highway.
 So far, a date has not been set for the opening of the Broad Street extension, raising the possibility that Mayor Sharpe James, one of the line's strongest supporters, who will be stepping down on June 30, will no longer be in office when the link opens. But that has not dampened the enthusiasm of those awaiting the new rail spur.
 ''New York City's supposed to be the transit capital, but it's New Jersey that's opening new lines,'' said Kenneth T. Jackson, a professor of history at Columbia University who has written extensively about transportation and urban areas. ''It's the decline of public transit around the country that's undermined the downtown areas, and anything that enhances that is positive.'' 

8 Minutes, Top to Bottom
 From a commuter perspective, many of office jobs in Newark are in or around the vast Gateway complex, which is near Penn Station but almost a mile walk or a 20-minute bus ride on heavily congested streets from Broad Street Station, where commuters on New Jersey Transit's Morris and Essex line arrive in the city. Transit officials say that with the new extension, it will take commuters eight minutes to get from Broad Street to Penn Station.
 Several blocks of the extension will run underground north of Penn Station, emerging for an above-ground stop at NJPAC. Officials said engineers saved $23 million in tunneling costs on an 850-foot underground stretch of track by digging a trench, constructing a concrete box to house the line, and simply covering it over.
 In terms of encouraging the redevelopment of downtown Newark, which has been sputtering along for nearly a decade, transit officials, real estate investors and others say the stops along the milelong extension will provide much-needed service to downtown businesses, residential neighborhoods and institutions including the New Jersey Performing Arts Center, the New Jersey Institute of Technology, Seton Hall Law School and Rutgers campuses, the Newark Museum, and Bears and Eagles Waterfront Stadium. 
 ''We view the transportation network that is here as an integral part of our success,'' said Arthur Stern, chief executive of Cogswell Realty Group LLC. ''Anything that ads to that network is going to accrue to the benefit of our projects.''
 Cogswell is a Manhattan-based developer that, along with Lehman Brothers Holdings LLC, has invested more than $200 million in downtown Newark in recent years. The company cites the subway extension in marketing a 77-year-old Art Deco skyscraper on Raymond Boulevard that has been vacant since 1986, but in July will begin renting 317 apartments in the first upscale housing project downtown in 45 years.
 Cogswell's optimism is shared by officials at NJPAC, the critically acclaimed concert hall that opened in 1997 and helped kick off what is often called downtown Newark's renaissance. Last month, the arts center announced it was seeking a partner to develop an adjacent 1.2-acre lot that it hopes will be home to 250 apartments as well as shops, restaurants, cafes and galleries.
 ''We're hoping that the apartment building will attract young professionals who work in either other parts of Newark or who need to take the train to either Jersey City or New York, and this is the perfect link,'' said Lawrence Goldman, the president and chief executive of NJPAC.
 Mr. Goldman said that most patrons of NJPAC get there by automobile, but that he hoped the extension with an above-ground station just steps away would change that. 
 ''It is the dream of an urban arts center to have people delivered almost to your front door,'' he said. ''Think of Carnegie Hall with the train stopping right at 57th Street, or stopping right at the corner of 66th and Broadway at Lincoln Center.''

A City on a Roll
 Still, not everyone is as dreamy-eyed about the project's potential.
 ''The extension of the subway will not by itself return downtown Newark to its former glory,'' said Professor Jackson, the Columbia professor, who is working on a book about housing patterns in several northeastern cities, including Newark. But he acknowledged that Newark ''has already been on a bit of a roll,'' referring to such projects as the $310-million sports arena under construction that will be home to the New Jersey Devils hockey team. 
 The Broad Street extension is part of an urban mass transit boom around the country that in recent years has produced new and expanded systems. Indeed, use of all forms of public transportation rose by 1.3 percent in 2005, led by a 6 percent increase in light-rail travel, according to the American Public Transportation Association in Washington. 
 In New Jersey, the association said there was a 17.8-percent jump in light-rail ridership on its Hudson-Bergen Light Rail Line and River Line -- together accounting for the nation's third-highest increase behind Minneapolis and Houston.
 Virginia Miller, a spokeswoman for the transit group, said that every $1 million in capital investment in public transportation can return up to $30 million in sales among surrounding businesses, and that the transit projects also spur new construction.
 ''It's actually something that's going on all across the country,'' Ms. Miller said. ''Realtors are interested in building around transit.'' 
 Moreover, Michael Rosa, the owner of Rosa Realty here, said that the value of existing housing downtown was also likely to rise as a result of the expanded transit system.
 ''Transportation has always been a key, and people are realizing that that's coming to the area,'' Mr. Rosa said. ''We don't even have enough for the demand that we have.''

Rising Property Values
 In fact, property values in the area are beginning to rise sharply. He said a two-family house on Washington Street downtown sold for $540,000 this month after selling for $230,000 three years ago.
 In the James Street Commons Historic District, Syed Hussain, a business major at Rutgers, said the subway extension would accelerate the improvement he has already seen in the neighborhood, an area of 19th-century brick town houses south of the Broad Street Station.
 ''I have a couple of friends who are fearful of going out at night, but I think it's changing,'' said Mr. Hussain, who is from Lahore, Pakistan. ''I can see back in my country what my city is facing with the traffic.'' 
 Lou Collazo, who owns Mr. Martin's Fine Jewelry on Broad Street, said he planned to use the subway extension to make the PATH connection on his regular trips to Manhattan's diamond district. But Mr. Collazo, who is also a lieutenant in the Newark Police Department, said he had mixed feelings about the project. In addition to traffic headaches during the three-and-a-half-year period of construction, the rail line has eliminated badly needed curbside parking. 
 Then again, he added, ''If it brings me more pedestrian traffic, it will have done its job.''
 The Broad Street extension will fit into the Newark City Subway much like individual lines are linked in New York City's huge subway system. For now, riders will have to change trains at Penn Station here to transfer from the extension to the main trunk line much the way subway riders in New York change from the No. 1 train on Manhattan's West Side to the Times Square shuttle.
 In addition, Newark straphangers will not have to emerge from the underground Penn Station stop or pay an additional fare to transfer. Eventually, the Broad Street extension may be linked to the main line so that no transfer is necessary.
 About 80 percent of the project's costs comes from federal sources, including a $142 million transportation grant specifically for the project, plus another $25.3 million in regular federal transportation funds. New Jerseyans are contributing $40.4 million out of the Transportation Trust Fund.

Off the Bus, Onto the Train
 Transportation officials are predicting that the Broad Street extension will generate an additional 4,000 trips a day after its first 12 months in operation, bringing the system's total daily average to 22,000. About 1,300 of those trips are expected to come from current bus passengers, while others will involve people simply extending their subway ride. 
 By comparison, the Hudson-Bergen Light Rail line, which opened in 2000 and serves the rapidly developing waterfront between Bayonne and Weehawken, generates 28,000 daily trips. The River Line, which opened in March 2003 and links Trenton and Camden, generates 7,000 trips a day. 
 One recent afternoon, commuters on the westbound platform of the Broad Street Station who were awaiting a train home said they welcomed the subway extension as an alternative to the bus or walking. 
 Jim Hoagland, a 47-year-old editor at the Lexis-Nexis news and legal archive, said he would ride the subway in cold or rainy weather to his job at another Art Deco skyscraper on Broad Street that was also restored by Cogswell Realty.
 ''It depends on the traffic,'' Mr. Hoagland said, before excusing himself to board a train. ''What's it, 5:20? This must be me.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The first stop on the extension after emerging from Penn Station will be a platform at NJPAC. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 7)Map of Newark, N.J. highlighting planned light rail extension: The proposed subway extension (dotted line) from Penn Station to Broad Street Station. Solid dots indicate stop locations. (pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (91%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (77%); SUBURBS (75%); HISTORY (73%); RIOTS (69%); WORLD WAR II (68%); WRITERS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%) Transit Systems; Subways; Pennsylvania Station (Newark); Stations and Terminals (Passenger)

PERSON: Steve Strunsky

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) Newark (NJ) 

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



350 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: How to Open a State Budget 

 BODY:
When New York State lawmakers finished the state budget on time, sort of, for the second year in a row, you could hear the backslapping from Buffalo to Bridgehampton. Certainly the Legislature and Gov. George Pataki deserve some congratulations for meeting the budget deadline of April 1 -- that's far better than not meeting the deadline. But it was still an undisciplined budgeting process with an undisciplined $112 billion-plus budget as a result. These self-congratulating lawmakers have to start reforming a process that is so outdated it should be gathering dust over in the state archives.
 Most thoughtful politicians in Albany recognize that we have a problem here, but the wrong solution would be worse than nothing at all. Voters wisely rejected one such effort last year. As they look for a substitute, one of the best comprehensive proposals is from Alan Hevesi, the state comptroller. Mr. Hevesi was formerly the comptroller in New York City, where the financial crisis of the 1970's forced politicians to adopt a budgeting process that is much better than Albany's. 
What the state needs is more information, transparency and accountability. The key points of any acceptable reform include:
 Shift the calendar. All but three other states start their new year's budget on July 1. New York's begins April 1 -- too soon to know what tax season will bring in terms of revenues.
 Real revenue estimates. The first step in any budget -- yours or the state's -- is a legitimate estimate of how much money there is to spend. In Albany, that revenue estimate is always a matter of debate. The Legislature and the governor came close to agreeing that the comptroller should establish that estimate. The best option would be to create an Independent Budget Office much like the Congressional Budget Office. But if that proves too politically difficult, the state's chief elected fiscal officer -- that is, the comptroller -- should do it.
 More data. There should be a true spending plan made public in a timely fashion for each appropriation. The governor's office should be required to provide more detailed and up-to-date data throughout the budget year -- to the Legislature, to the public and especially to the comptroller's office.
 Thinking about the future. New York requires only limited midterm or long-term planning. Fiscal monitors, the public and the comptroller deserve to have a better, more coherent idea of how the state will deal with the projected gaps in future budgets. 
 Visible debt. New York's borrowing is so difficult to tally that it came as a shock a few weeks ago when the Citizens Budget Commission estimated that the state is a stunning $227 billion in debt. Of that, $45 billion is to be paid off directly by the state, $86 billion by local governments and the rest through authorities that are part public, part private. The first step to bringing state debt under control is the easiest: Make it public.
 Finally, while a governor should have plenty of power over state finances, New York's governor is now a virtual budget czar. The Legislature has so little clout that members can't do much more than stall or negotiate. It's time for the public, Albany's lawmakers and the many candidates now running to replace Governor Pataki next year to help create a better balance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (55%) Editorials

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



351 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: A Metro-North Station Near Yankee Stadium

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Placing a Metro-North station near Yankee Stadium (''A Yankees Station in the Bronx,'' editorial, April 9) would not only reduce traffic during game days, but it would also have multiple benefits for anyone who lives or works near Yankee Stadium. 
Many of the workers at the Bronx County Courthouse and other government offices near the stadium live in the northern suburbs and could use the station to get to work by train instead of driving. 
 Furthermore, the suburbs are experiencing stronger job growth than is the city, and a Metro-North station near Yankee Stadium would give the large number of unemployed people in the area an economical way to get to those new jobs that they cannot reach today.

Guthrie Alberts
Woodside, Queens

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); BASEBALL (88%); TRAINS (88%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (87%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (87%) Baseball; Stations and Terminals (Passenger); Railroads; Yankee Stadium (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (91%) Metro-North Commuter Railroad; New York Yankees

PERSON: Guthrie Alberts

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



352 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: 5 Figures (ZIP Codes) Tell Neighbors' Wealth

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON and RON NIXON

 BODY:
EVER wonder how well off the neighbors are? The accompanying map will give you an indication based on how much taxable interest people in Westchester, Putnam and Dutchess Counties receive. 
 The newly available figures, used to create the map, provide a window on the financial wealth of Americans at the ZIP code level, the smallest geographic level at which the Internal Revenue Service discloses income data. The figures are for the 2002 tax year.
 A table where you can look up the data for your ZIP code is available at www.nytimes.com/regionals. 
 Financial wealth is much more concentrated at the top than is overall income, three-quarters of which comes from wages. 
 Fewer than half of American taxpayers reported receiving any interest income. In some Westchester ZIP codes more than 80 percent of taxpayers reported interest. The prevalence of interest income for Dutchess and Putnam Counties, while higher than the national average, was lower than in Westchester.
 The concentration of wealth can be seen by comparing the top and bottom ZIP codes for adjusted gross income, reported on the last line of the front page of your Form 1040 tax return, and taxable interest income, which taxpayers report on line 8a of that form.
 The top Westchester ZIP code reported 36 times as much adjusted gross income per taxpayer as the bottom ZIP code, but 106 times as much taxable interest income.
 Westchester is more economically homogeneous than some other regions of the metropolitan New York area. For example, in northern New Jersey, the ratio of average dividends in the top ZIP code compared with the bottom is 4,375 to 1.
 The highest average adjusted gross income was Purchase ZIP code 10577 at $484,737, with the next highest in Rye ZIP code 10580 at $297,714. The lowest was Maryknoll ZIP code 10545 at $13,616 and the second lowest was Yonkers ZIP code 10702 at $29,508.
 For the average interest income, the top Westchester ZIP code was 10577 in Purchase at $23,436, followed by Rye ZIP code 10580 at $14,066. The lowest were two Mount Vernon ZIP codes, 10553 at $222 and 10550 at $226.
 In Dutchess County the top interest income was in Millbrook ZIP code 12545 at $3,898.61 and the bottom was Maybrook ZIP code 12543 at $259.36.
 In Putnam the top was Garrison ZIP code 10524 at $2,125 and the lowest was Lake Peekskill ZIP code 10537 at $490. The second lowest was Holmes ZIP code 12531 at $746.
 The figures show the average taxable interest income from bank accounts, corporate bonds, privately held mortgages and other private loans. Interest on tax-exempt bonds and interest earned in retirement accounts, which is not taxed until the money is withdrawn, is excluded.
 The figures come from the Internal Revenue Service master files so they show actual figures reported on tax returns, not statistical estimates. Because banks and other financial institutions report interest payments to the I.R.S., this data is a highly reliable measure of taxable interest income.
 Fewer than 2 percent of households own bonds and fewer than 13 percent own certificates of deposit, according to the Federal Reserve. Bond ownership is concentrated among older Americans. Just 3 percent of those age 75 and older owned bonds in 2004, but half of those who did owned $295,000 or more worth of bonds, up from a median value of $37,300 in 2001.


GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''The Geography Of Wealth''Average interest income per taxpayer in each ZIP code in 20021st: 10577PurchaseAVG. INTEREST INCOME: $23,436AVG. INCOME: $484,7372nd: 10580RyeAVG. INTEREST INCOME: $14,066AVG. INCOME: $297,7143rd: 10583ScarsdaleAVG. INTEREST INCOME: $11,622AVG. INCOME: $201,733Lowest: 10553Mt. VernonAVG. INTEREST INCOME: $222AVG. INCOME: $39,208(Source by I.R.S. Statistics of Income)Map of Westchester, Putnam and Dutchess Counties highlighting average interest income per taxpayer in each ZIP code in 2002.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (71%); CORPORATE BONDS (62%) Income

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%)

PERSON: David Cay Johnston; Ron Nixon

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Westchester County (NY); Putnam County (NY); Dutchess County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



353 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: Greener Pastures

BYLINE: By Ted Steinberg. 
Ted Steinberg, a professor of history and law at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, is the author of ''American Green: The Obsessive Quest for the Perfect Lawn.''

 BODY:
AH, it's that time of year when, once again, we become obsessed with our lawns. You say you want a perfect lawn? Well, here are eight steps you should follow:
 1. Begin with a lot of money. If you want a trophy lawn, you have to be willing to pay for it, just like the Joneses down the street who, along with the rest of the country, spend on their lawns an amount roughly equal to the gross domestic product of Vietnam. Resist the temptation to think you are simply pouring money into a hole in the ground. Remember the words of Red Sox groundskeeper David Mellor: ''If anyone gives you the business over your love affair with your lawn, remind them it's better to be growing and mowing than, say, blowing the family savings on a weekend in Vegas.''
2. Invest in a good riding mower that can really move. Don't put too much stock in the fact that about 75,000 Americans a year injure themselves with lawn mowers. It's a suburban legend. 
 3. Bigger is better when it comes to leaf blowers. Who cares about noise pollution? Keep in mind the case of the two gentlemen from South Carolina who came to blows and then head butts when one decided to send his leaves into the yard of the other. When the more poorly equipped lawn warrior retreated, the blowhard had the pleasure of yelling, ''Come out and fight me like a man.''
 4. Be on the look out for intruders like moles. Hire a professional mole trapper at the first sign of these little miscreants; they can turn your perfect lawn into what one victim said looked like a map of New York City's subway system. Resist the urge to pour gasoline down a hole and toss in a match as did one Seattle homeowner who managed to torch his entire lawn.
 5. Keeping geese from defecating on your green dream is a somewhat taller order. If Bill Gates can't lick this problem at his Medina, Wash., homestead, it's a safe bet that nobody can. Don't be fooled by neighbors recommending geese police companies, fake eagles, hot peppers, grape juice or rocket launchers. The real lawn jock will get a good shotgun and fire away. If the animal rights activists get on your case, consider doing what the Kansas City Zoo did and donate the geese meat to a homeless shelter.
 6. Speaking of animal rights, Spot is going to have to cool his heels and restrict his business to the street. Either that or you will need to live with yellow burned-out patches. Some swear by the specially formulated biscuits available to fight this peril. But my advice is to follow the wisdom of one of the most reputable companies in the do-it-yourself lawn-care business and either get a larger lawn or a smaller dog. 
 7. Invest in a good golf cart, like the overseers of New York City's Central Park use to control crowds on the Great Lawn that cost $18 million to renovate. If a rock band or a bunch of unruly war protesters want to use the lawn, tell them to take up opera or classical music, the only allowable uses today for the great suburban icon that dominates the middle of Manhattan. 
 8. Don't believe that business that the gardening guru Jerry Baker says about mixing urine and beer and spraying the tonic on your lawn as a fertilizer. Keep the beer in the fridge where it belongs. You're going to need a good drink when your neighbor backs his car down the driveway and runs onto your grass.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAMMALS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (71%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (68%); NOISE POLLUTION (67%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (66%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (63%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (60%); PERSONAL FINANCE (53%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (50%); HOMELESSNESS (50%) Lawns

PERSON: Ted Steinberg

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



354 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD: SET WAYS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: Vive La Dolce Vita

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN. 
Roger Cohen writes the Globalist column for The International Herald Tribune.

DATELINE: ROME 

 BODY:
JUST before the Italian election one of the country's leading newspapers, Corriere della Sera, led with an eye-catching headline: ''Italian Forces Attacked in Afghanistan. An Architect Wounded.''
 I did not read the article in detail, so I cannot tell you how this architect came to volunteer to be with the Italian NATO contingent in Afghanistan. But his presence in the western city of Herat was somehow comforting, even if what had happened to him was not. Each country has its talents; Italy has a talent for beauty. This attribute is not easily measurable: no online graphic can illustrate it. Still, it is palpable, and an architect's cultural work in an ancient Afghan town seemed to me part of a particular Italian disposition.
The modern world does not like such particularities. The rapid movement across borders of capital, goods, labor, technologies and ideas -- the thing we call globalization -- is a process of accelerated convergence. It brings many welcome things, among them opportunity and cheap goods; it also stirs unease because its stamp is sameness and its pre-eminent criterion efficiency. 
 This unease has been evident in Europe of late. French youth, invoking revolution in the cause of stability, spent weeks in the street to protest and ultimately overturn a law that would have given them jobs at the price of losing existing guarantees against the abrupt termination of employment.
 The proposal smacked too much of ''precariousness'' for the French. That is to say, it smacked too much of the market, of capitalism, of globalization, for it is in the nature of all these things to be changeable, dynamic and ultimately precarious. They opted, in short, for security over risk, a choice many Americans find puzzling.
 Italians, too, are unhappy with the advance of ''precariousness.'' This is still a society where a central goal is to be ''sistemato'' -- secured in a paid position, preferably not too labor intensive, that can be held for life and, if possible, passed on to the children.
 But is such deep attachment to stability tenable? The general consensus is no. For Italy to survive in a global economy, now that it can no longer devalue the lira to boost its exports, it must become more efficient, more flexible, more precarious. It must dislodge the ''sistemati'' or get them to work harder. The same is true in much of the rest of Europe.
 Such stasis is anathema to Americans, for whom risk, movement and personal ambition are fundamental. Immigrants, who propel constant shifts, protested, too, in recent days, but their banners, saying ''We Are America,'' proclaimed an essential truth: The United States is about the endless possibility of self-reinvention through hard work. It is inseparable from change.
 When I became an American citizen last year, I was given a short English test in the form of a dictation. The first sentence was: ''I want to be a good American.'' The second was: ''I plan to work very hard every day.''
 No subtleties here: The prevailing ethos, the one that has carried generations of immigrants to prosperity, is inculcated from Day 1. ''Americans are always at the new frontier, risking all, at least in our imaginations,'' said Robert Paxton, a historian of France. ''But the French have not had a new frontier since the Middle Ages.''
 One way to view the French demonstrations and those by illegal immigrants in the United States, in fact, is as two faces of globalization: that of upheaval, resented by many Europeans, and that of possibility, embraced by Mexicans pouring over the border in search of work.
 Italians tend to see more threat than possibility in the global forces propelling change. ''We need to develop a more entrepreneurial spirit,'' said Luca Cordero di Montezemolo, the chairman of the automaker Fiat. He was at the Roman restaurant Piperno, which makes the best artichokes on earth, but that is another story, and one of art rather than efficiency. ''We need more competition in universities, in our utilities, everywhere, but I doubt any leader can deliver that.'' 
 Who that leader will be after a knife-edge election is still not clear. Romano Prodi's left-of-center ''Union'' alliance won. Silvio Berlusconi, the right-wing prime minister, has refused to accept defeat. Political paralysis seems inevitable.
 For energetic proponents of Italian change, that's bad news. But I wonder if this elaborate construct for immobility is not another expression of Italian genius, a way tens of millions of people have found to say that movement is unwelcome, especially of the abrupt kind.
 France is also wary of change. There are many hugely successful entrepreneurs -- it is a French word, after all -- but the idea that one of them could become a national hero in the Bill Gates mode is unthinkable. So, too, is the notion that one of them might step into the political fray to explain why jobs with the risk of being fired may be better than no jobs at all.
 Big enterprises, at some level, are about exploitation in France; the country's heroic narrative involves equality just as America's involves making it from nothing, as the millions of illegal immigrants working now as gardeners or cooks are trying to do.
 Italy has more time for entrepreneurs than France, and its northern third is one of the most productive areas in the world. But having lived the rise and fall of empire, that is to say of ambition, it is deeply attached to ''dolce far niente'' -- a pleasurable idleness woven into the texture of life.
 As it happened, I read about the injured architect in the crumbling grounds of a small tennis club I frequented as a Rome-based correspondent more than 20 years ago. I'd not been back in a long time; it was reassuring to find it unchanged.
 Or almost. The garden was a little more weed-ridden, the white plastic chairs a little dirtier, the wall a little more smothered in graffiti from rival soccer fans. And Luigi Olini, the kind caretaker, was dead, having succumbed to cancer on Feb. 26, 1994, as his widow, Assunta, told me. ''Nothing you can do about that illness,'' she said with a shrug. ''And here, things are about the same. There are some new members. They come and play at 1 o'clock, because, you know, they have to work in the morning.''
 Yes, I know, morning work, an unfortunate thing. I gazed at the club, a little miracle of inertia, prime real estate in the midst of Rome that the market and globalization and restless American ambition would have gobbled years ago and replaced with condos and a pool. Who was to say Italy was wrong to resist all that?
 Assunta told me she still lived in an apartment at the club. Her two sons, ages 44 and 39, live with her. She's ''sistemata,'' in a modest way, and so are her two big boys.
 Those middle-aged men living with their mother are a little unusual, but only a little: Italian children leave home at an average age of 28. In a recent ruling, the Italian Supreme Court said a father could not cut off financial support to his daughter at the age of 26 even though she had a degree because of ''the concrete difficulties today of young people in finding economic self-sufficiency.''
 Of course, that self-sufficiency might become more attainable if Italy accepted the modern world and swept away its islands of inertia. But then that little club would disappear and something of family life.
 So, too, would the perfect bowl of rigatoni al pomodoro that Assunta served in the spring sun. Globalization has noplace for such ''dolce far niente.'' No wonder it is a contested process, here and in other less sunlit places with their own particularities of style and work and habit.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Ross MacDonald)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); REFUGEES (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (64%); EXPORT TRADE (64%); DEVALUATION (60%); CITIZENSHIP (50%) International Trade and World Market; Children and Youth; Demonstrations and Riots; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%)

PERSON: Roger Cohen

GEOGRAPHIC: HERAT, AFGHANISTAN (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); EUROPE (93%); ITALY (92%); FRANCE (92%) France; Europe; Mexico

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



355 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: The Price of Admission in a Material World

BYLINE: By HENRY FOUNTAIN

 BODY:
YOU just paid $153 at StubHub.com for a ticket to the July 3 Madonna concert at Madison Square Garden, more than double what it would have cost you at the box office. Did you get taken?
 No, say many economists. Long gone are the days when most people paid face value by lining up at a stadium or theater box office. And even now, with online box offices, tickets sold at face value can go in minutes.
So a growing number of tickets are bought on the secondary market, which is estimated to be worth $10 billion annually. In the case of popular acts like Madonna, it can be practically impossible to buy tickets without resorting to a broker or an online site like StubHub or eBay, which act as marketplaces for individual or block sellers and buyers. 
 ''It has gotten worse in a sense,'' said Stephen Happel, an economics professor at Arizona State University. Before reselling became popular, team owners and entertainment producers kept prices stable, refusing to raise them, say, on weekend nights or for more popular shows. ''The old-time guys really worried about spoiling the market,'' Professor Happel said. ''They didn't want to be viewed as price gougers.''
 But the industry has grown comfortable with the principle of supply and demand. Broadway shows like ''The Producers'' have charged a premium for some seats, and baseball teams often charge more for games against quality opponents. Even primary sellers like Ticketmaster auction premium seats for certain shows: minimum bids for that same Madonna concert were $380 to $800 at Ticketmaster.com. Brokers have long charged more for popular events. But sites like StubHub.com (which says about $200 million in tickets were sold at its site last year) and eBay allowed supply and demand to flourish.
 Jeff Fluhr, StubHub's chief executive, said his site was ''the embodiment of supply-and-demand economics.'' Mr. Fluhr said it provides ''choice and availability that primary ticketing channels don't.''
 All of that comes at a price, though. While tickets can sell for less than face value for an event with little appeal, prices can also go through the roof (though Mr. Fluhr said that extremely high-priced tickets almost never sell until the price is reduced, and that the site has better deals than brokerages).
 But in an age when the rich are getting richer, many people are willing and able to pay a steep price. ''You have to expect with all the wealth people have, that you're going to have tremendous demand for Yankees tickets,'' Professor Happel said.
 More than just supply and demand is at work. ''You have a lot of people with a lot of money,'' said John Allen Paulos, a professor of mathematics at Temple University. ''It's not surprising that they are going to take advantage of being able to easily buy tickets online.''
 For those people, there is an ''opportunity cost'' of doing business the old way. ''It's one of the most profound ideas of economics,'' he said. ''If you make a ton of money, an hour or two saved more than makes up for the money you are paying.''
 That doesn't mean that those with less money won't be mad. ''The general puzzle is why people believe in just prices -- why certain prices are right and certain are wrong,'' said David D. Friedman, a professor of economics and law at Santa Clara University, who doesn't see any justification for the outrage. ''People have this intuition they are entitled to this price.''
 Part of that may be that people remember the days when ticket prices did not fluctuate. But for Professor Friedman the reason goes back further, perhaps to the days of the hunter-gatherers, when bartering was the norm and people knew the ''usual'' value of things. 
 Professor Happel said that brokerages and sites like StubHub offered a service to the risk-averse. They guarantee that the tickets are genuine and will arrive in time. ''But the best way to protect fans and get the lowest-priced tickets over all,'' he said, ''is to have a designated area where on game day you allow open trading.'' 
 Arizona allows for such reselling zones outside venues, where sellers and buyers can meet. In the zones, Professor Happel said, prices can drop as the starting time approaches. In the 2001 World Series between the Arizona Diamondbacks and the Yankees, he said, tickets for Game 6 could be had for half the face value.
 Professor Happel can't fathom why New York, for one, doesn't have a similar law. ''Isn't this the home of Wall Street?'' he said. ''Don't they understand that free markets are the best way to protect the consumer?''


GRAPHIC: Chart/PhotosYankees vs. Devil RaysYankee StadiumApril 25Ticket pricesFace value: $12-$115Currently at StubHub.com: $5-$412MadonnaMadison Square GardenJuly 3Ticket pricesFace value: $64.50-$354.50Currently at StubHub.com: $110-$3,530Dave Matthews BandSaratoga Performing Arts CenterJune 17Ticket pricesFace value: $40.50-$59.50Currently at StubHub.com: $77-$199Kenny ChesneyOakland ArenaJune 13Ticket pricesFace value: $55.25-$65.75Currently at StubHub.com: $115-$1,143

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TICKET SALES (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TICKET AGENCIES (89%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (88%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (76%); THEATER (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BASEBALL (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Athletics and Sports; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Music; Computers and the Internet; Athletics and Sports

COMPANY: TICKETMASTER ENTERTAINMENT INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%) Stubhub.com

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%)

PERSON: Henry Fountain; Madonna

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



356 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Why the Secrecy? Only the Bureaucrats Know

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
SHHH! Don't tell anyone: The British and American intelligence services worked together in World War II.
 What may seem to some an obvious historical fact struck a Central Intelligence Agency apparatchik in 2002 as a secret still worth protecting. He redacted a sentence describing the ''close coordination'' of the allies' spies from a 1946 memorandum recounting war propaganda duties before approving its public release. For good measure, he also took out the number of American spies in 1946 (''400 in the field and 260 in Washington'') and the name of Brig. Gen. John Magruder, then the intelligence chief.
 The anonymous security reviewer's vigilance was for naught. Matthew M. Aid, a Washington historian, noticed recently that the memorandum had been published in 1997, details intact, in a historical volume by the State Department. The department had even posted the document's text on its Web site, where anybody can read about the ''close coordination'' between British and American spies. 
 Why do bureaucrats insist on spending the taxpayers' money to keep aging government paperwork from the taxpayers?
 The question has arisen anew because of the discovery that military and intelligence agencies have pulled some 55,000 pages of decades-old documents from public access at the National Archives. Some documents were photocopied long ago by researchers. In the case of the redacted 1946 memorandum, the State Department had already published it in the multivolume history ''Foreign Relations of the United States.''
 At a House hearing last month, Representative Christopher Shays of Connecticut denounced what he called an ''absurd effort to put the toothpaste back into the tube'' and demanded an explanation.
 Allen Weinstein, archivist of the United States, proceeded to recount what he knew about a secretive program he said he had first learned about from a newspaper article. But then he too hit a wall of secrecy.
 Mr. Weinstein said part of the reclassification effort was guided by a written agreement between the National Archives and ''a component of the Department of Defense.'' Mr. Weinstein couldn't say just which component or what was in the agreement, because ''it contains classified information which I am not prepared to discuss in open session.''
 This prompted an exasperated Representative Henry A. Waxman of California to ask, ''Why is it classified?''
 To which Mr. Weinstein forlornly replied, ''I don't know.''
 It was an Alice in Wonderland moment, as one congressman put it, that epitomized government agencies' reflexive urge to keep things secret. 
 Last week, the National Archives released a declassified copy of the agreement it had signed in 2002 -- with the Air Force, it turned out. The document showed the archives had agreed to keep the reclassification secret ''to avoid the attention and researcher complaints that may arise from removing material that has already been available publicly from the open shelves for an extended period of time.''
 J. William Leonard, who heads the Information Security Oversight Office at the archives and is currently auditing the reclassification program, says deciding when a classified document has outlived the need for secrecy can be wildly subjective. 
 But Mr. Leonard says there is a case for keeping some secrets forever -- for instance, the names of foreigners recruited to spy for the United States. ''If we're asking people to betray their country, they may want a promise that their identity will never be revealed,'' Mr. Leonard said.
 Archives officials have promised to create a better system for overseeing truly necessary reclassification. Max Weber, the German sociologist, could tell them what they're up against. Secrecy comes as instinctively to bureaucrats as dam-building does to beavers. 
 ''Every bureaucracy seeks to increase the superiority of the professionally informed by keeping their knowledge and intentions secret,'' Weber wrote in his 1914 tract ''Economy and Society.'' Secrecy is a source of power, he said, and ''nothing is so fanatically defended.''


GRAPHIC: Chart/Photo: ''For Them to Know''This 60-year-old document, public for nearly a decade, mentions cooperation between British and American spies in World War II -- information that some had wanted kept classified.COVER PAGE -- With re-release date.''Top Secret'' was crossed out, but other sections were obscured.Date of original memorandum.Text cut: ''under CIG Directive No. 1.''In 2002, the C.I.A. decided that this passage, among others, should remain secret. It reads:''Soon thereafter, in close coordination with the British, a clandestine intelligence operation was begun with headquarters in London.''But the full text was already on the State Department's Web site as Document 105.http://state.gov/www/about--state /history/intel/100--109.html)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (94%); WORLD WAR II (92%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (90%); HISTORY (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); AIR FORCES (73%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (68%); WEB SITES (68%); ARMED FORCES (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (51%) World War II (1939-45); Intelligence Services; Classification of Information; Computers and the Internet; Bureaucratic Red Tape; Archives and Records; World War II (1939-45)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (92%); NATIONAL ARCHIVES & RECORDS ADMINISTRATION (59%) Central Intelligence Agency; State Department; National Archives and Records Administration

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (50%); HENRY WAXMAN (50%) Scott Shane

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



357 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 183 words

HEADLINE: 'Give Me Your Talented '

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Steven Clemons and Michael Lind understate their case for high-skilled immigrants. They present the possibility that more high-skilled immigrants would drive down the wages of high-skilled workers in the United States as a potential risk. 
 Actually, this would be the clear benefit of more immigrants, as any supporter of free trade should immediately recognize.
 Lower wages for doctors, physicists, economists and other highly skilled professionals translate into lower prices for medical care and other consumer items. This increases the real wages for unaffected workers, and raises economic growth.
 Real proponents of free trade would be vigorous advocates of removing restrictions on highly skilled immigrants. In a genuinely open economy, it would be as easy for a qualified Indian doctor to work in the United States as it is to import blue jeans from Mexico. 
 Unfortunately, most ''free trade'' advocates only want less-skilled workers to face international competition.

Dean Baker
Washington, April 10, 2006

The writer is co-director, Center for Economic and Policy Research.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); REFUGEES (73%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); PHYSICS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%) Immigration and Refugees

PERSON: Dean Baker; Steven C Clemons; Michael Lind

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



358 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Life in the Green Lane

BYLINE: By Jamie Lincoln Kitman. 
Jamie Lincoln Kitman is the New York bureau chief for Automobile Magazine and a columnist for Top Gear, a British magazine.

DATELINE: Nyack, N.Y. 

 BODY:
IF you make your way over to the Javits Convention Center for the New York International Automobile Show -- or if you've gone to any auto show in the last year or so -- you'll know that hybrid cars are the hippest automotive fashion statement to come along in years. They've become synonymous with the worthy goal of reducing gasoline consumption and dependence on foreign oil and all that this means for a better environment and more stable geopolitics. 
 And yet like fat-free desserts, which sound healthy but can still make you fat, the hybrid car can make people feel as if they're doing something good, even when they're doing nothing special at all. As consumers and governments at every level climb onto the hybrid bandwagon, there is the very real danger of elevating the technology at the expense of the intended outcome -- saving gas. 
Few things these days say ''environmentally aware consumer'' so loudly as the fuel-sipping Toyota Prius. With its two power sources -- one a gasoline-powered internal combustion engine, the other a battery-driven electric motor -- the best-selling Prius (and other hybrids sold by Honda and Ford and due soon from several other car makers) can go further on a gallon and emit fewer pollutants in around-town use than most conventional automobiles because under certain circumstances they run on battery power and consume less fuel. For this reason, federal, state and local governments have been bending over backward to encourage the sale of hybrids, with a bewildering array of tax breaks, traffic lanes and parking spaces dedicated to hybrid owners.
 But just because a car has so-called hybrid technology doesn't mean it's doing more to help the environment or to reduce the country's dependence on imported oil any more than a nonhybrid car. The truth is, it depends on the hybrid and the nonhybrid cars you are comparing, as well as on how you use the vehicles. There are good hybrids and bad ones. Fuel-efficient conventional cars are often better than hybrid S.U.V.'s -- just look at how many miles per gallon the vehicle gets. 
 Being a professional car-tester, which is to say a person who gets asked for unpaid car-buying advice practically every day, I know these distinctions have already been lost on many car buyers. And I fear they're well on their way to being lost on our governments, too.
 Lately, right-minded people have been calling me and telling me they're thinking about buying the Lexus 400H, a new hybrid S.U.V. When I tell them that they'd get better mileage in some conventional S.U.V.'s, and even better mileage with a passenger car, they protest, ''But it's a hybrid!'' I remind them that the 21 miles per gallon I saw while driving the Lexus is not particularly brilliant, efficiency-wise -- hybrid or not. Because the Lexus 400H is a relatively heavy car and because its electric motor is deployed to provide speed more than efficiency, it will never be a mileage champ. 
 The car that started the hybrid craze, the Toyota Prius, is lauded for squeezing 40 or more miles out of a gallon of gas, and it really can. But only when it's being driven around town, where its electric motor does its best and most active work. On a cross-country excursion in a Prius, the staff of Automobile Magazine discovered mileage plummeted on the Interstate. In fact, the car's computer, which controls the engine and the motor, allowing them to run together or separately, was programmed to direct the Prius to spend most of its highway time running on gasoline because at higher speeds the batteries quickly get exhausted. Indeed, the gasoline engine worked so hard that we calculated we might have used less fuel on our journey if we had been driving Toyota's conventionally powered, similarly sized Corolla -- which costs thousands less. For the owner who does the majority of her driving on the highway, the Prius's potential for fuel economy will never be realized and its price premium never recovered.
 For years, most of the world's big car makers have shied away from building hybrids because while they are technologically intriguing, they are also an inelegant engineering solution -- the use of two energy sources assures extra weight, extra complexity and extra expense (as much as $6,000 more per car.) The hybrid car's electric battery packs rob space from passengers and cargo and although they can be recycled, not every owner can be counted on to do the right thing at the end of their vehicle's service life. And an unrecycled hybrid battery pack, which weighs more than 100 pounds, poses a major environmental hazard.
 So the ideal hybrid car is one that is used in town and carefully disposed of at the end of its days. Hybrid taxis and buses make enormous sense. But the market knows no such distinctions. People think they want hybrids and they'll buy them, even if a conventional car would make more sense for their pocketbook and for the environment. The danger is that the automakers will co-opt the hybrids' green mantle and, with the help of a government looking to bail out its troubled friends in Detroit, misguidedly encourage the sale of hybrids without reference to their actual effect on oil consumption. 
 Several bills floating around Congress, for instance, have proposed tax incentives to buyers of hybrid cars, irrespective of their gas mileage. Thus, under one failed but sure to resurface formulation, the suburbanite who buys a hypothetical hybrid Dodge Durango that gets 14 miles per gallon instead of 12 thanks to its second, electric power source would be entitled to a huge tax incentive, while the buyer of a conventional, gasoline-powered Honda Civic that delivers 40 miles per gallon on the open road gets none. 
 And under some imaginable patchwork of state and local ordinances, the Durango buyer might get a special parking space at the train station and the right to use a high occupancy vehicle lane, despite appalling fuel economy and a car full of empty seats, while the Honda driver will have to walk to the train from a distant parking lot after braving the worst of morning rush hour traffic on the highway just like everybody else.
 Pro-hybrid laws and incentives sound nice, but they might just end up subsidizing companies that have failed to develop truly fuel-efficient vehicles at the expense of those that have had the foresight to design their cars right in the first place. And they may actually punish citizens who save fuel the old-fashioned way -- by using less of it, with smaller, lighter and more efficient cars. All the while, they'll make a mockery of a potentially useful technology.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tim Lane)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); HYBRID VEHICLES (89%); TRADE SHOWS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (76%); GASOLINE (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); CONSUMPTION (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%) Automobiles; Fuel Efficiency; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; Automobiles

PERSON: Jamie Lincoln Kitman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



359 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: Greener Pastures

BYLINE: By Ted Steinberg. 
Ted Steinberg, a professor of history and law at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, is the author of ''American Green: The Obsessive Quest for the Perfect Lawn.''

 BODY:
AH, it's that time of year when, once again, we become obsessed with our lawns. You say you want a perfect lawn? Well, here are eight steps you should follow:
 1. Begin with a lot of money. If you want a trophy lawn, you have to be willing to pay for it, just like the Joneses down the street who, along with the rest of the country, spend on their lawns an amount roughly equal to the gross domestic product of Vietnam. Resist the temptation to think you are simply pouring money into a hole in the ground. Remember the words of Red Sox groundskeeper David Mellor: ''If anyone gives you the business over your love affair with your lawn, remind them it's better to be growing and mowing than, say, blowing the family savings on a weekend in Vegas.''
2. Invest in a good riding mower that can really move. Don't put too much stock in the fact that about 75,000 Americans a year injure themselves with lawn mowers. It's a suburban legend. 
 3. Bigger is better when it comes to leaf blowers. Who cares about noise pollution? Keep in mind the case of the two gentlemen from South Carolina who came to blows and then head butts when one decided to send his leaves into the yard of the other. When the more poorly equipped lawn warrior retreated, the blowhard had the pleasure of yelling, ''Come out and fight me like a man.''
 4. Be on the look out for intruders like moles. Hire a professional mole trapper at the first sign of these little miscreants; they can turn your perfect lawn into what one victim said looked like a map of New York City's subway system. Resist the urge to pour gasoline down a hole and toss in a match as did one Seattle homeowner who managed to torch his entire lawn.
 5. Keeping geese from defecating on your green dream is a somewhat taller order. If Bill Gates can't lick this problem at his Medina, Wash., homestead, it's a safe bet that nobody can. Don't be fooled by neighbors recommending geese police companies, fake eagles, hot peppers, grape juice or rocket launchers. The real lawn jock will get a good shotgun and fire away. If the animal rights activists get on your case, consider doing what the Kansas City Zoo did and donate the goose meat to a homeless shelter.
 6. Speaking of animal rights, Spot is going to have to cool his heels and restrict his business to the street. Either that or you will need to live with yellow burned-out patches. Some swear by the specially formulated biscuits available to fight this peril. But my advice is to follow the wisdom of one of the most reputable companies in the do-it-yourself lawn-care business and either get a larger lawn or a smaller dog. 
 7. Invest in a good golf cart, like the overseers of New York City's Central Park use to control crowds on the Great Lawn that cost $18 million to renovate. If a rock band or a bunch of unruly war protesters want to use the lawn, tell them to take up opera or classical music, the only allowable uses today for the great suburban icon that dominates the middle of Manhattan. 
 8. Don't believe that business that the gardening guru Jerry Baker says about mixing urine and beer and spraying the tonic on your lawn as a fertilizer. Keep the beer in the fridge where it belongs. You're going to need a good drink when your neighbor backs his car down the driveway and runs onto your grass.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAMMALS (86%); POULTRY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (71%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (68%); NOISE POLLUTION (67%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (66%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (63%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (60%); PERSONAL FINANCE (53%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (50%); HOMELESSNESS (50%) Lawns

PERSON: Ted Steinberg

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



360 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: How to Open a State Budget 

 BODY:
When New York State lawmakers finished the state budget on time, sort of, for the second year in a row, you could hear the backslapping from Buffalo to Bridgehampton. Certainly the Legislature and Gov. George Pataki deserve some congratulations for meeting the budget deadline of April 1 -- that's far better than not meeting the deadline. But it was still an undisciplined budgeting process with an undisciplined $112 billion-plus budget as a result. These self-congratulating lawmakers have to start reforming a process that is so outdated it should be gathering dust over in the state archives.
 Most thoughtful politicians in Albany recognize that we have a problem here, but the wrong solution would be worse than nothing at all. Voters wisely rejected one such effort last year. As they look for a substitute, one of the best comprehensive proposals is from Alan Hevesi, the state comptroller. Mr. Hevesi was formerly the comptroller in New York City, where the financial crisis of the 1970's forced politicians to adopt a budgeting process that is much better than Albany's. 
What the state needs is more information, transparency and accountability. The key points of any acceptable reform include:
 Shift the calendar. -- All but three other states start their new year's budget on July 1. New York's begins April 1 -- too soon to know what tax season will bring in terms of revenues.
 Real revenue estimates. -- The first step in any budget -- yours or the state's -- is a legitimate estimate of how much money there is to spend. In Albany, that revenue estimate is always a matter of debate. The Legislature and the governor came close to agreeing that the comptroller should establish that estimate. The best option would be to create an Independent Budget Office much like the Congressional Budget Office. But if that proves too politically difficult, the state's chief elected fiscal officer -- that is, the comptroller -- should do it.
 More data. -- There should be a true spending plan made public in a timely fashion for each appropriation. The governor's office should be required to provide more detailed and up-to-date data throughout the budget year -- to the Legislature, to the public and especially to the comptroller's office.
 Thinking about the future. -- New York requires only limited midterm or long-term planning. Fiscal monitors, the public and the comptroller deserve to have a better, more coherent idea of how the state will deal with the projected gaps in future budgets. 
 Visible debt. -- New York's borrowing is so difficult to tally that it came as a shock a few weeks ago when the Citizens Budget Commission estimated that the state is a stunning $227 billion in debt. Of that, $45 billion is to be paid off directly by the state, $86 billion by local governments and the rest through authorities that are part public, part private. The first step to bringing state debt under control is the easiest: Make it public.
 Finally, while a governor should have plenty of power over state finances, New York's governor is now a virtual budget czar. The Legislature has so little clout that members can't do much more than stall or negotiate. It's time for the public, Albany's lawmakers and the many candidates now running to replace Governor Pataki next year to help create a better balance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (55%) Editorials

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



361 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: Out of Bounds

BYLINE: By Joseph A. Grundfest. 
Joseph A. Grundfest is a professor of law and business, and co-director of the Rock Center on Corporate Governance, at Stanford.

 BODY:
IT would be funny if it weren't so dangerous. 
 Like a mouse that roared, the tiny but rich Village of North Hills, threatens to set a precedent that can only terrify people who care about the sanctity of property rights under our Constitution.
 North Hills is home to Deepdale, one of the nation's most exclusive and beautiful golf courses. Deepdale's members pay hefty initiations and annual dues and hail from around the United States and abroad. Only one member lives in North Hills, and village residents have no right to golf at Deepdale because it is private property. There are, however, over 50 courses within 15 miles -- of which 11 are public. 
 The mayor of North Hills, however, proposes to condemn Deepdale through eminent domain. But rather than turn it into housing, a hospital, schools or even a highway cloverleaf, as is usually the case, the mayor wants to keep Deepdale as a golf course and require its new members to own property in the village. 
 In short, he wants to evict Deepdale's members and replace them with his select villagers. The villagers, however, probably won't golf free at the new Deepdale. The mayor has pointed to nearby Sands Point as an example of the type of municipal course he has in mind, and residents there have to pay as much as $18,000 a year to ''belong'' to their municipal course. 
 The condemnation serves the public interest because, the mayor says, owning Deepdale would be a nice ''amenity'' that will increase local real estate values. Just as people pay more for real estate located in a good school district, they can be counted on to bid up the price of real estate in the world's most prestigious golf district. And, if you live in North Hills, what's the matter with that, even if you don't golf? Well, two things: first, it probably violates the Constitution; and second, it makes no economic sense.
 The Fifth Amendment to the Constitution provides that private property shall not ''be taken for public use, without just compensation.'' In a controversial 5-4 decision handed down last June, the Supreme Court upheld a plan by New London, Conn., to take private property from one private owner and give it to another as part of the creation of an urban redevelopment zone. Officials decided that the redevelopment zone was a reasonable effort to deal with the economic distress that gripped New London after major employers left, in part because it transformed the property's use. 
 Applying that precedent to Deepdale would require a careful and constitutionally complicated analysis of whether condemning a golf course owned by outsiders to turn it into a golf course owned by friends and neighbors is a legitimate ''public use'' and whether the government's rationale for such a taking is authentic or merely a pretext for an unconstitutional purpose. 
 But let's set aside these lofty issues and look at the economics. Suppose the village pays full fair market value for Deepdale as determined in an open auction and simultaneously sells off memberships in another auction open only to village property holders. The second auction would balance the village's books by raising the same amount of money that was used to acquire Deepdale. Putting aside transaction costs, which are quite significant in deals of this sort, the value of village property wouldn't increase one whit because any resident who wants a Deepdale membership would have to pay full freight for that right. 
 In order to pump up the local real estate values, the village would have to sell Deepdale memberships at a discount. But selling at a discount would cause the village to operate at a deficit that would have to be covered by increased property taxes. Those taxes would depress local property values by the value of the discount they would have to cover, leaving village home prices precisely where they were in the first instance. 
 All of which proves that there is no free lunch, even at a golf course as exclusive as Deepdale -- unless the mayor figures that he can condemn the club for less than its true fair market value. If that's the case, then the lower the price that he can persuade a court to set for Deepdale, the bigger the bump up that will result in local real estate values. 
 The Constitution, however, is supposed to guarantee ''just compensation.'' New York law requires that condemned property be valued at its ''highest and best use, regardless of actual use'' including the ''reasonable probability of rezoning.'' Unfortunately, the danger is still very real that Deepdale could be condemned at a bargain basement price. After all, there aren't any direct comparables to Deepdale, so valuing the property will be far more difficult than pricing a condo when the identical unit upstairs sold just a week ago. The price will, instead, be set by a local court relying on the testimony of appraisers, none of whom would have seen a comparable transaction for a trophy property of 175 acres, just minutes from Manhattan, in the heart of one of America's richest communities. 
 So, the Deepdale land grab makes sense only if the People's Republic of North Hills can take the golf course for less than 100 cents on the dollar. That alone should be enough to raise the constitutional red flag and put the kibosh on this narishkeit (that's a technical term meaning ''nonsense'') before this wacky idea gets any farther than it already has. 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 23, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An Op-Ed article last Sunday, about the debate over the Deepdale golf course, misstated the annual residential membership fee at the Sands Point municipal golf course. Residents pay as much as $9,600 for a full family membership; $18,000 is the maximum fee for nonresidents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (91%); EMINENT DOMAIN (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (90%); MAYORS (90%); PROPERTY LAW (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); EVICTION (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (67%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (67%); APPEALS (50%) Golf; Eminent Domain

ORGANIZATION: Deepdale Golf Club (North Hills, NY)

PERSON: Joseph A (Prof) Grundfest

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (85%) CONNECTICUT, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (85%) North Hills (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



362 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: Jets Go Long, Leaving Hofstra in 2007

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
IT is not the Dodgers leaving Brooklyn, but news that the New York Jets will leave Hofstra University, where they have trained since 1974, has dismayed local fans, left Hofstra with regrets and stripped Long Island of its only direct tie to the National Football League.
 ''That's the most disappointing thing I have ever heard,'' said Marc O'Malley, a Jets fan and a member consultant at the New York Sports Club in Garden City. ''We always had the Jets training here and that put us on the map. Now they're going to New Jersey? What else is there to say?'' 
The Jets announced on March 31 that they would move their training facilities and corporate offices next year from the Hofstra campus in Hempstead to a new 20-acre center on the former Exxon corporate headquarters, on 485 acres in Florham Park, N.J. The Jets' presence there will become the centerpiece for a planned commercial, residential and recreational development. 
 The site, the winner of a competition among several New Jersey communities, is near Fairleigh Dickinson University in Madison and is about a half-hour from the New Jersey Meadowlands. That is where the Jets and the New York Giants agreed in September to build and share a $1 billion stadium scheduled to open in 2010. It will replace Giants Stadium, where the Jets have been tenants for 21 years.
 The 9.3-acre Jets training center at Hofstra is on its North Campus near Hempstead Turnpike. It includes an indoor practice area, training and meeting rooms and outdoor practice fields. Practices are closed, but the public is invited to watch players at summer camps. 
 A Jets spokeswoman said that having a permanent home field in the Meadowlands and a training center a difficult commute away on the Hofstra campus made little sense now that the club had signed the 99-year stadium lease.
 ''We have loved Hofstra, they have been wonderful to us,'' said Marissa Shorenstein, the spokeswoman. ''But now that we have signed the lease and are committed to moving to New Jersey, it is very difficult to justify not moving our training facilities closer to our new home.''
 She said team members assembled at the Hofstra center on the day of home games for bus trips to the Meadowlands. ''Sometimes the commute is just as long as going to an away game for us,'' she said.
 Ms. Shorenstein said the club would have remained at Hofstra had it succeeded in building a new stadium in New York City. The Jets' plans for a taxpayer-subsidized stadium on the West Side of Manhattan, strongly supported by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg but adamantly opposed by Cablevision and others, collapsed last year when a state agency, the Public Authorities Control Board, did not approve the $2.2 billion project.
 Cablevision, the Long Island-based cable-television company that also owns Madison Square Garden, the Knicks and the Rangers, mounted a large advertising campaign to defeat the proposal for the stadium, which it considered competition for the Garden.
 A Cablevision spokesman, Charles Schueler, said the company had no comment on Ms. Shorenstein's implication that Cablevision bore some responsibility for the Jets' decision to leave the Hofstra training center. 
 Discussion of a new stadium in Queens, where the Jets once shared Shea Stadium with the Mets, ended when the Jets and the Giants agreed to build in the Meadowlands.
 The Jets have been a steady presence at Hofstra for more than three decades, and there are other longstanding links. The team has conducted its off-season and preseason training there, and some players live in the area. The Jets' former owner, Leon Hess, was a major benefactor of Hofstra, and a former Hofstra player, receiver Wayne Chrebet, has been a longtime fan favorite.
 Hofstra said it was sorry all this would end soon. ''We definitely regret that the Jets are leaving,'' said Stuart Vincent, a university spokesman. ''From our point of view it's been a great relationship and it has brought a lot of people to the campus for Jets practices and summer camps who might not have otherwise been exposed to Hofstra.'' 
 A university statement that Mr. Vincent released on Tuesday said, ''We do not anticipate any economic loss from the Jets' departure because of the intense demand for the use of our facilities both internally and externally as we continue to grow and as we monitor the development plan for the 77-acre Nassau Coliseum site and other opportunities.'' 
 Nassau County is considering a proposal by Charles Wang, the founder of Computer Associates, and Reckson Associates for a $1.6 billion commercial, residential, sports and recreational development at the site of the coliseum, which is within walking distance of Hofstra. 
 Mr. Vincent said the university expected that it or outside groups would find new uses for the training center. He said the university president, Stuart Rabinowitz, was also speaking to the club about continuing to hold its summer camps at the training center. Ms. Shorenstein said the Jets had not determined where they would hold training camps.
 Hofstra declined to discuss its lease agreement with the team. ''We do not disclose the financial details of our relationship with our partners,'' its statement said.
 The loss of the club seemed to register more as a blow to fans than to the local economy. The Hofstra campus is within the Village of Hempstead and partly within the Town of Hempstead, the most populous town in the country. 
 Jets coaches and players will be missed at the Cheesecake Factory in Westbury, where the assistant general manager, Rob Mapes of Merrick, said he knew team members who were patrons by sight. 
 ''They are great guys and they are a good part of the community,'' he said. ''I wish them the best, but I'd like it better if they stayed. It's a little sad to see them go.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Jets have trained at Hofstra since 1974, but starting in 2007, they plan to train in Florham Park, N.J. (Photo by Jim McIsaac/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); REAL ESTATE (74%); RELOCATIONS (74%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (69%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (65%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (64%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (61%) Football; Relocation of Business

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (94%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (91%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (84%); NEW YORK GIANTS (82%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (58%); FAIRLEIGH DICKINSON UNIVERSITY (55%) Hofstra University; New York Jets

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) John Rather

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%) Florham Park (NJ); Garden City (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



363 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2106 words

HEADLINE: Putting New Energy Into Clean Power

BYLINE: By JAN ELLEN SPIEGEL

 BODY:
MAYOR JOHN DESTEFANO Jr. of New Haven and Mayor Scott Slifka of West Hartford are at war.
 ''A friendly one,'' Mr. Slifka clarified.
 ''This isn't a contact sport, so no one will get hurt,'' Mr. DeStefano said.
 But it is a battle all the same.
 As part of events leading to Earth Day on Saturday, Mr. DeStefano and Mr. Slifka have made a little wager over which city has more homeowners and businesses signed up for the Clean Energy Option, one among a host of voluntary and mandatory initiatives in Connecticut aimed at increasing the use of clean energy.
 That the two mayors have bet New Haven pizza against West Hartford soft drinks is a measure of the enthusiasm with which these communities and others have embraced the state's latest foray into clean electricity generation. It is a striking turnabout from a complicated earlier attempt begun in 2000, which so confused consumers that it had failed by 2003. 
 With the goal of creating a market for clean energy that eventually will make it more affordable than using fossil fuels, Connecticut has assembled a collaboration of government, nonprofit, business and private programs. Its underpinning is state law that requires and promotes clean-energy use. 
 But Connecticut's clean energy push relies substantially on a series of voluntary programs. It has benefited from a perfect blend of smart marketing, clever interprogram coordination, President Bush's endorsement of clean energy in his State of the Union address and a number of chance -- if unpleasant -- factors, including high energy prices, Hurricane Katrina and the war in Iraq. It has met with so much success that many observers say the state could become the national prototype for how to run a clean energy initiative.
 ''They are an early emerging model in clean energy as economic development,'' said Lewis Milford, executive director of the Clean Energy States Alliance, a Vermont-based nonprofit consortium of such funds.
 Mr. Milford said Connecticut helped pioneer the notion that clean-energy-related businesses could be built to be self-sustaining rather than just depend on government support.
 Alan Nogee, director of the Clean Energy Program at the Union of Concerned Scientists, based in Cambridge, Mass., said that although it was hard to compare individual states, ''There is really more of an organized and creative effort to promote clean energy purchases in Connecticut than anywhere else that I'm aware of.''
 So far, more than 7,100 electricity users have signed up in about 11 months for the Clean Energy Option, a program mandated by the state and run by its two largest electric utilities to offer clean energy to residents. Another program has commitments from more than 20 cities and towns to buy 20 percent of their power for municipal buildings from clean energy sources by 2010, and another several dozen are considering signing on. Clean energy sources include wind, hydroelectric plants and methane gas collected from landfills.
 The Department of Environmental Protection has become the first state agency to buy 100 percent clean energy as part of a pledge by the entire state government to reach 20 percent by 2010. Connecticut Light and Power and United Illuminating, the state's largest utility companies, are also buying 2 percent of their power from clean sources, as required by law, and will increase that level to 7 percent by 2010, when the legal standard will rise that high. And in December the initial steps were taken toward building the first new clean energy plants in Connecticut, also as required by law.
 The linchpin in Connecticut's campaign has been the interconnectedness of the programs: the 20 percent by 2010 campaign and the Clean Energy Option, a new, far simpler method homeowners have for selecting clean energy than they had under the earlier program.
 Together they are known as the Connecticut Clean Energy Communities Program. Communities that join the 20 percent by 2010 campaign can receive a free solar panel for a municipal building for every 100 users who sign up for the Clean Energy Option. The state's smallest communities can qualify if 10 percent of their residents sign up, and there is also a solar panel qualification if a local commercial user makes a large enough purchase.
 Wesleyan University is buying 1 million kilowatt hours of clean power, and that earned Middletown one of the two solar panels it has qualified for so far. The panels will be paid for by the Connecticut Clean Energy Fund, a pool of money financed by a surcharge on nearly every electric bill in the state.
 Because residents are also paying a premium for the clean energy -- an additional $3.85 to $8 a month for a home that uses 700 kilowatt-hours -- it behooves them to push their city or town to purchase clean energy, because an increase in the number of users will force production of more clean-energy plants, which is what eventually will drive down the price, experts say. Cities and towns tend to be among the biggest power users in the state, so their purchases have the potential to make a faster impact.
 ''What we're doing is creating a demand, and that demand will drive the price down,'' said Ron Klattenberg, a Middletown councilman who is also the chairman of the city's Clean Energy Task Force.
 But Mr. Klattenberg admitted that even in a community with as many advocates for the environment as Middletown has, clean energy has been a slow sell.
 ''It's a tough subject,'' he said. ''It's hard for the average person to understand rates and conservation. It's an area most people don't think about it. They just flip on the switch, and the lights go on. It has been a challenge.''
 To a large degree the municipal backing for clean energy is financially driven. Mr. Klattenberg said Middletown's initial interest was an offshoot of a desire to trim its exploding energy costs. In the 2005 fiscal year, the city spent $1.58 million on electricity. In the first eight months of the current fiscal year, it has already spent $1.3 million. So the city has been prompted to explore ways to reduce that bill, including putting solar panels on an elementary school when it gets a new roof and converting the methane in the city landfill to electricity.
 For some communities, the extra cost of clean energy can be a deal-breaker. Bethany, with 1,700 households, has committed to 20 percent by 2010, but First Selectman Derrylyn Gorski said is impossible for the town government to make the switch.
 ''We can't sign up for clean energy until we have enough rebates in place to offset the cost to the town,'' she said, explaining that the companies providing clean power typically promise towns incentives -- like rebates of about $20 -- for each household that signs up for the Clean Energy Option. By Ms. Gorski's calculation, that would mean the town would need about 26 households or businesses to sign up to offset the increase of 1 cent to 1.5 cents per kilowatt-hour. As of early April, Bethany had enrolled 22 households.
 The Town Council in Coventry has already declined to participate in 20 percent by 2010 because of the costs, said the town manager, John Elsesser. But a seventh-grade ecology club later tried to persuade the council to change its mind, holding an informational meeting for council members this month at the Town Hall Annex.
 ''We're telling them that there are options available and you have a choice to make our town a green town, and that renewable energy is way better for the earth,'' said Valerie Stickles, 12, before the meeting. ''I just think of when I'm older and if I do have children I don't want them to live an unhappy life in a world that's gross. I want them to live in a clean world.''
 Bryan Garcia, who hatched the idea of the solar panel incentive, pointed to the potential of solar panels in low-income housing as a way to help residents limit, if not eliminate, the cost of electricity. Mr. Garcia, the director of energy market initiatives for the Connecticut Clean Energy Fund, the funding and operational arm for Connecticut Clean Energy Communities, said that Hartford, which signed onto 20 percent by 2010 in February, was planning a Spanish-language event to help involve its Hispanic community.
 Mr. Garcia said that data on the state's solar panel rebate program, a component of the clean energy initiative that offers rebates to homeowners who install solar panels, shows that 44 percent of the installations have been by people with incomes less than $100,000. He said it was distributed fairly evenly throughout the state, though Fairfield County posted the lowest numbers.
 An irony in the state's clean energy push is that Connecticut generates virtually no clean power of its own, which means that when individuals and communities buy clean power, for the most part it is not actually delivered to them. What they are essentially buying is a credit that clean power will be put into an electric grid somewhere in the country on their behalf.
 A year ago, the State Department of Public Utilities Control designated two companies, Community Energy of Wayne, Pa., and Sterling Planet of Norcross, Ga., as the state's two clean energy providers. The plan operates through Connecticut Light and Power and United Illuminating.
 Sign-up is through the provider, either online or through inserts that are periodically placed in bills. Customers can choose one or the other company at 100 percent or 50 percent clean power. If a power problem occurs, all service is handled through the utility companies. One of the main issues that held clean power enrollment to just 3,500 statewide in the pre-2003 clean energy plan was the confusion customers had over whom to call if their power went out.
 Community Energy's clean power is 50 percent produced by wind, largely at wind farms in Pennsylvania. The other half comes from power plants that rely on the methane gas produced by landfills in the mid-Atlantic region.
 Sterling Planet's power sources are one-third mid-Atlantic landfill gas; one-third wind, mainly from Wyoming; and one-third hydroelectric, from a dam in Jewett City at what once was the Wyre Wynd wire factory on the Quinebaug River. The dam is privately owned, by Duncan S. Broatch, who said it can produce about 10 million kilowatt-hours a year, or enough to support 2,800 homes. It produces the only clean energy in the state program that is made in Connecticut.
 That dearth of clean energy produced in Connecticut has prompted formation of Project 100, another component of the state's clean energy initiative. The project requires C.L.&P. and United Illuminating by 2008 to enter into minimum 10-year contracts for an annual total of 100 megawatts of clean power produced in Connecticut, enough to run about 75,000 homes. 
 In December, the Connecticut Clean Energy Fund announced its recommendation for new clean energy plants. It recommended a 15-megawatt biomass project in Watertown, a 4-megawatt fuel cell operation in Wallingford, and a 15-megawatt wind farm in Florida, Mass., the power from which will be delivered directly to Connecticut. By law, all future projects will have to be inside the state.
 About one-third of the municipalities committed to the 20 percent by 2010 program have signed power contracts, according to SmartPower, a private nonprofit marketing group that works in conjunction with the Connecticut Clean Energy Fund and uses some money from the fund to implement 20 percent by 2010. West Hartford's is the most ambitious agreement, starting out at a 10 percent clean energy level.
 The competition between West Hartford and New Haven to enlist households and businesses in the clean energy drive has also spurred action from other communities, prompting a wager between Bethany and Cheshire, for example, and a possible one between Middletown and Hartford, a SmartPower spokesman said. 
 ''It's like anything in life,'' Mayor DeStefano of New Haven said. ''It's more interesting when there's a competition.''
 He added, ''What I'm interested in at this point is how do you bring lots of these projects to scale, how do you bring projects in to be more affordable?''
 Mayor Slifka of West Hartford, noting that New Haven is twice his community's size, said: ''Our residents should be very proud of themselves if we're even close. If we end up losing, but it resulted in more people signing up across the state, then it would be a win.''
 Councilman Klattenberg of Middletown, following the fight, as are his counterparts elsewhere, was far more bold in his assessment.
 ''My position,'' he said, ''has always been that we'll beat both of them.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Power generated by a wind farm, above, in Waymart, Pa., is bought by Connecticut residents as part of the state's clean energy initiative. A dam, below, in Jewett City, produces hydroelectric energy under the program. Middletown is the first Connecticut community to receive free solar panels, left, for enlisting public support for the program. (Photo by Tom Madden for The New York Times)
(Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times)
(Photo by C. M. Glover for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
At the dam in Jewett City, owned by Duncan S. Broatch, the Quinebaug River powers a hydroelectric plant. (Photo by C. M. Glover for The New York Times)
 Testing a solar panel to be installed at a school in Middletown. (Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times )(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENEWABLE ENERGY (91%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MAYORS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (88%); CITIES (79%); IRAQ WAR (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EARTH DAY (76%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (75%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); CITY LIFE (71%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (70%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (70%); EXECUTIVES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); SOFT DRINKS (54%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%) Energy and Power; Energy and Power

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Jan Ellen Spiegel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (88%) CONNECTICUT, USA (98%); VERMONT, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (79%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



364 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: Fire Puts Spotlight on Stamford's South End 

BYLINE: By BILL SLOCUM

 BODY:
DRIVING into the Canal Street parking lot at Stamford's South End one sunny afternoon, it is tempting to channel Bette Davis in ''Beyond the Forest'' and declare: ''What a dump!''
 A six-story mill building with dingy windows dominates the left side, while signs advertising a paintball center and a motorcycle shop decorate an otherwise drab, short white building to the right. Between these, on opposite ends of the parking lot, stand a pair of squat structures covered in outdated and rusty industrial bric-a-brac. Next to one, a charred hulk marks where a third building used to stand until a six-alarm blaze destroyed it April 3.
Even Tony Soprano might have second thoughts about doing business here. Yet over the last seven years, this crumbling area has become a bazaar for high-end antique merchandise, attracting some of the canniest customers in the metropolitan area and beyond. Stepping into one of the warehouses is to discover what more than one person in the antiques business has called the best-kept secret in Fairfield County. 
 Only an alley separates the burnt ruin from the Braswell Galleries Antique and Estate Center. Walking around inside is a challenge because of the plethora of furnishings crammed into it. Teakwood armoires, Queen Anne sofas, ormolu-framed mirrors and Persian rugs crowd every inch of space, along with quirkier items like old license plates, minstrel-show advertisements and cookie jars. They are the harvest of what the owner, Gary Braswell, likes to call ''broom sweepings'' from estate sales and other similar opportunities.
 ''People come and load up their S.U.V.'s with merchandise,'' Mr. Braswell said. ''They'll spend $16,000 at once. We get interior designers, antiques dealers and just people who are in the market.''
 A couple of weeks ago, Mr. Braswell auctioned a painting by the French artist Chaim Soutine for $290,000, plus a 15 percent buyer's premium. When the fire broke out next door, the painting was propped up on a wall a few feet away. Seeing black smoke and 40-foot flames, Mr. Braswell's wife and partner, Kathy Braswell, feared the worst.
 ''I was absolutely expecting the fire to come across the alley,'' she said. ''It was burning the bridge between the two buildings. But the firemen did a great job keeping the bridge wet on our side, so it didn't reach.''
 When Drew Clark drove along Canal Street and saw the flames, he feared the worst, too. The business that he is a partner in, Stamford Antiques Center, occupied most of the blazing structure and contained not only about $200,000 of his own merchandise but a great deal more owned by other dealers and collectors who stored items there as part of a co-op. Items stored included diamond necklaces, ancient religious icons and rows of paintings. Though a full inspection of the destruction has yet to occur, there is little hope for salvaging more than a few chandeliers.
 ''We're still numb,'' Mr. Clark said. ''There are millions that were in there.''
 But he was still open for business later that week, at his other business across the parking lot, Stamford Antiques Center II. There, Corliss Leveille of Stamford was eyeing a cane chair and a glass bowl.
 ''I come every weekend, and buy whatever catches my eye, paintings, lights,'' she said. ''I have eclectic taste. I like to take something and use it for something else, not necessarily what they meant it for.''
 That idea holds true for this old industrial complex, too, still known as the Yale & Towne site for the lock manufacturer that once had a vast factory here. The building that burned down was a machinist shop in the 1880's, as was the building Braswell Galleries occupies.
 ''They had 35 buildings, over a million square feet of space,'' Renee Kahn, director of Stamford's Historic Neighborhood Preservation Program, said of Yale & Towne. ''During the early part of the 20th century, Stamford considered itself the largest hardware manufacturer in the world. It was a company town, and Yale & Towne was the company.''
 Today, the South End is hardly a center of gravity, economically or otherwise. Yale & Towne moved out long ago, for cheaper labor, and the area's other major industrial presence, Pitney Bowes, a metered-mail company, recently moved its factory as well. The South End, a stumpy square-mile peninsula overlooking Stamford Harbor, is mostly cut off from the city's downtown by Interstate 95. Jack Condlin, president of the city's chamber of commerce, called the South End ''a transitional site.'' Others have called it a brownfield and unattractive.
 ''You don't walk the South End, but you will once it's developed,'' said Sandy Goldstein, president of the Stamford Downtown Special Services District.
 The future of the South End lies with Antares Investment Partners, a Greenwich-based real estate development firm that bought the 22-acre Yale & Towne parcel along with two other, non-adjacent South End properties last year. All together, its holdings include 82 acres, about half of all developable space on the South End.
 Bruce Macleod, Antares's chief operating officer overseeing the South End project, said, ''We're trying to create a community, not just do a project,'' and that he envisioned a largely residential complex catering to the growing population of single professionals sprouting up around the New York City suburbs. The Antares vision, he said, will most likely make room for a community of artists that have occupied Yale & Towne's mill building since the late 1970's, but perhaps not the antique stores.
 ''That's a real challenge,'' Mr. Macleod said. ''One reason the antique stores are there is they are not strong rent payers.''
 Also, the buildings they occupy are outdated, dangerously so if this month's fire is any indication. Mr. Macleod said it was likely the antique-store buildings would come down.
 ''From our point of view, the buildings are in very bad shape,'' he said. ''Most are 100 years old or older and have not been well kept. The systems are old. Their condition is poor. The problem is it's not economical to keep them there. The cost of rehab exceeds their value.''
 Stamford Mayor Dannel Malloy said the antiques businesses in the South End were great for the city.
 ''I think people have decided to move into the city because of their visits there,'' he said. ''I know because they told me that. People come from Litchfield to Stamford for antiques. It used to be you went from Stamford to Litchfield.''
 Cici Irvine, a teacher's aide who lives in Darien, has a small second home being built in Vero Beach, Fla., which she says she does not want to ''look like Florida, all pastels, wicker, and bamboo.'' She regularly visits Mr. Braswell's store to find items that fit her classic-antique motif, nothing too rococo or Victorian.
 ''This is such a wonderful place, it has such classic gorgeous stuff,'' she said. ''When I heard about the fire, I feared the worst. I don't know what I'd do without Braswell's.''
 Mr. Braswell said low rent, closeness to I-95 and ample storage space make the Canal Street location rare and desirable. But he was resigned to the probability of having to move. At least the move itself will be easy. ''We can have entire inventories in and sold in two weeks,'' he said.
 The move may be harder for Mr. Clark and his renters, those left after the fire. Robert De Falco, a longtime antiquer and Stamford resident, had moved much of his collection to the Stamford Antiques Center after being displaced from his original Manhattan location by the Sept. 11 attacks. He estimated that a quarter of his total stock was lost in the fire, but seemed in good spirits as he made use of new space given to him at Stamford Antiques Center II. His daughter, Briana, 17, recently survived a serious car accident, he said, and that helped keep things in perspective.
 ''Everyone knows this isn't going to last, but it has lasted,'' Mr. De Falco said. ''You take it in stride.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A fire destroyed a building housing Stamford Antiques Center. Robert De Falco, below, said he lost a quarter of his stock. Other antiques stores in the South End remain open, including Braswell Galleries, at right, where Cici Irvine of Darien, above, shops. (Photographs by Janet Durrans for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); FIRES (89%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (89%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (89%); INTERIOR DECORATING (76%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (73%); AUCTIONS (72%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (72%); MOTORCYCLE DEALERS (71%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); PAINTING (71%); LICENSES & PERMITS (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (56%) Fires and Firefighters; Antiques; Area Planning and Renewal

ORGANIZATION: Antares Investment Partners

PERSON: Dannel (Mayor) Malloy; Bill Slocum; bruce macleod

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%) Stamford (Conn); Stamford (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



365 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: The Case of the Stolen Statues: Solving a Kenyan Mystery 

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

DATELINE: KAKWAKWANI, Kenya 

 BODY:
Out behind Kache Kalume Mwakiru's homestead, not far from a mango tree, is a patch of dirt that figures into an international struggle over pilfered cultural artifacts.
 ''This is where they were,'' said Ms. Mwakiru, 86, pointing out where her husband erected two traditional wooden statues, known as vigango by the local Mijikenda people, around 1983. About two years after the statues went up to honor her husband's deceased brothers, someone took them away in the night. Eventually they made their way to two American museums.
Ill fortune has befallen the family ever since, Ms. Mwakiru said. She cites her husband's death two years after the theft, the failure of the family's crops and assorted illnesses she and others have suffered. Such are the powers associated with vigango, which are put up to appease the spirits but have also become popular among Western collectors of African art. 
 The theft of vigango is not uncommon. Four vigango were snatched in February from a homestead not far from this coastal village, about an hour's drive from Mombasa. But what is so unusual about the theft at the Mwakiru place more than 20 years ago is that the vigango have been traced to the United States, and at least one will be returning home soon from an Illinois museum. An American anthropologist, Monica L. Udvardy, of the University of Kentucky, played a major role in unfolding the mystery. Ms. Udvardy interviewed Kalume Mwakiru, Ms. Mwakiru's husband, in 1985 as part of her field research on the Mijikenda people.
 She also took a photo of Mr. Mwakiru standing proudly in front of his two vigango, sculptured from hard wood into a rough human form and adorned with strips of cloth. When Ms. Udvardy went back to Mr. Mwakiru's home several months later to give him a copy of the photograph, he told her of the theft and asked for help in getting the statues back.
 Ms. Udvardy searched tourist shops and hotels where vigango were on sale at the time for several hundred dollars apiece, but she came up empty. It was not until 1999 that she came across one -- at a conference.
 She was at the annual meeting of the African Studies Association, in Philadelphia, when a participant, Linda L. Giles, showed slides of some of the African artifacts at the museum at Illinois State University. 
 ''I stopped her presentation and said, 'Wait, wait, go back to that slide,' '' Ms. Udvardy recalled. There was a match.
 Ms. Udvardy and Ms. Giles then began studying how such statues find their way to the United States, where they sell for up to $5,000. The researchers tracked down 294 vigango at 19 American museums, including Mr. Mwakiru's other statue. That one was at Hampton University Museum in Virginia, which had the largest collection of vigango, 99 in all.
 They traced most to a single art dealer, Ernie Wolfe III, a prominent collector of African artifacts and the owner of the Ernie Wolfe Gallery in Los Angeles. 
 Mr. Wolfe said in an e-mail message that he was ''horrified and deeply saddened'' to learn that two vigango he had purchased from a souvenir shop along the Kenyan coast were now said to be stolen.
 In February, the National Museums of Kenya sent letters to the two American museums seeking the statues' return to the Mwakiru homestead. Officials at the Illinois State Museum, in Springfield, to which a collection of 38 vigango was transferred from Illinois State University in 2001, have agreed to do so.
 ''We realized it was removed illegally,'' said Michael Wiant, an anthropologist at the Illinois State Museum. ''The answer was an easy one.''
 Hampton University Museum is still studying the matter. ''We're looking into it,'' said Mary Lou Hultgren, the curator. 
 What is at stake is not just the fate of the two statues from Kakwakwani but also what should be done with other vigango that might have been stolen.
 ''This is a very complicated affair,'' Mr. Wiant said. ''The question is, 'What do you do when you have 37 items that were perhaps obtained inappropriately?' We should have a dialogue. We should address this vigorously.''
 Mr. Wolfe, the dealer who transferred many vigango to the United States, disputes the notion that they were improperly obtained. He noted in an e-mail message that the Mijikenda frequently relocated their homesteads in search of fertile land and left behind the statues, which he said showed ''the limited temporal spiritual power and importance granted these figures by their creators.''
 Mr. Wolfe has sold many of the statues to private individuals who then donated them to museums.
 One of Ms. Mwakiru's missing vigango followed this route. It appears to have been sold to Powers Boothe, an actor, who then donated it and seven other vigango to the museum at Illinois State University in 1986, records show.
 Mr. Boothe is not the only celebrity to have bought vigango. Gene Hackman, Linda Evans, Shelley Hack and Dirk Benedict have all owned them, museum records show. Three vigango were included in the Sotheby's catalog for Andy Warhol's estate, although they appear to have been received from another dealer. Mr. Wolfe once told The New York Times that he regretted that he had not accepted Mr. Warhol's offer to trade a portrait for one of the statues.
 Mr. Wolfe, who wrote a 1986 book called ''Vigango: The Commemorative Sculpture of the Mijikenda of Kenya,'' said he found many ''deactivated vigango'' available in shops during his trips to Kenya in the 1970's, 80's and 90's ''whose ritual obsolescence had allowed them to be removed from their original context and to be made into international art commodities.''
 He described sitting around the fire with Mijikenda elders and receiving approval for his trade in the statues. ''I was told how the receipt of money for vigango was a perfect validation of their belief in the powers of these important ancestor spirits,'' Mr. Wolfe said.
 But Ms. Udvardy disagrees with Mr. Wolfe's interpretation that traded vigango are castaways, as does John Baya Mitsanze, a Kenyan museum curator of Mijikenda ancestry who said the statue honoring his grandfather was stolen years ago.
 According to custom, Ms. Udvardy argues, vigango should never be moved, even if a family relocates and leaves them behind.
 Similarly, Mr. Mitsanze said, most of the statues available for sale in shops were not handed over by their owners or abandoned, but instead were -- like his grandfather's -- pulled from the ground without authorization and offered for sale.
 Unemployed Mijikenda youths take them and sell them to tourist shops, he said. Some of the youths even believe in the power of the statues and are said to perform counterrituals to avoid misfortune as they steal them.
 Mr. Wolfe said he stopped importing vigango more than a decade ago, although his Web site still advertises them for sale. The statues also remain on the market in Kenyan shops. To reduce the trade, Mijikenda activists have begun a campaign to curtail the theft of more statues.
 Some people now put concrete in the ground at the base of their vigango to make it more difficult to pull them out. Elders authorized one vigango carver to create fake statues for sale at tourist shops. But that carver died, and there is now a dispute in the community about whether carving replicas cheapens the real thing.
 Mr. Mitsanze now travels to Mijikenda communities photographing the vigango still in the ground. He also has a list of about 200 people who say statues dedicated to their ancestors were taken. 
 Just the other day, he took a visitor to the home of Dissi Ngowa to point out the four vigangohe photographed in February.
 ''They're right here,'' Mr. Mitsanze said, walking toward the spot where the vigango had been. ''No, wait. They were here.''
 Mr. Ngowa said his statues had disappeared a few weeks after Mr. Mitsanze's last visit. Mr. Ngowa had put up the statues to stop a bout of bad luck, including failed harvests and the death of many of his livestock. It cost a huge sum by local standards, about $850, to have them carved and to put on the festivities associated with their installation, and Mr. Ngowa fully expects the bad luck to return now that the statues are gone.
 Mr. Ngowa then got on his knees and spoke to his ancestors. He poured some corn flour and water on the earth where the vigango had been and spoke soothingly to his late father, uncle and two more distant ancestors.
 ''Take this water and be contented,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A 1985 photo of Kalume Mwakiru and statues honoring his brothers. The statues, or vigango, were later stolen and sent to the United States. (Photo by Monica L. Udvardy)Chart: ''Theft, and Homecoming''Two stolen African statues have been traced to museums in the United States. At least one of the artifacts will be returned to Kenya soon.TIMELINE1983Kalume Mwakiru, a village elder in Kakwakwani, Kenya, erects two wooden statues, called vigango, to honor his deceased brothers.Late Feb. or early March 1985Both statues are stolen.1985Ernie Wolfe III, a prominent collector of African artifacts, buys the vigango in the coastal Kenyan town of Mombasa. The two statues are transported to his galleries in Los Angeles.1985-86Both vigango are sold. One is purchased by Powers Boothe, an actor. The other is purchased by an unknown person and later donated to the Hampton University Museum in Hampton, Va.Dec. 26, 1986Mr. Boothe donates the statue he purchased (along with seven other vigango) to Illinois State University.2001Illinois State University transfers its statue to the Illinois State Museum.2006After receiving a letter from the National Museums of Kenya in February seeking the return of the statue, Illinois State Museum officials agree to return their statue to Kakwakwani.Map of the United States highlighting the locations of the following:Los Angeles, Calif.Hampton, Va.Springfield, Ill.Map of Kenya highlighting Kakwakwani and Mombasa.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Chronology

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ART THEFT (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (77%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (77%); FAMILY (77%); ART COLLECTING (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (69%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (64%); HOTELS & MOTELS (61%); TALKS & MEETINGS (60%) Art; Robberies and Thefts; Art

ORGANIZATION: ILLINOIS STATE UNIVERSITY (94%); UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY (54%) illinois state museum; Hampton University

PERSON: Marc Lacey; kalume mwakiru; monica l udvardy

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); KENYA (97%) kakwakwani (Kenya)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



366 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: An Island Kingdom Feels the Ripples From Iraq and Iran

BYLINE: By HASSAN M. FATTAH

DATELINE: MANAMA, Bahrain, April 10 

 BODY:
Just minutes after the call went out over chat boards and cellphone text messages late Sunday, a group of young men trickled into a main street in the village of Sitra, about 20 minutes southeast of this city.
 The young men, local residents say, blocked traffic, set fire to tires laid on the street and prepared for the arrival of special security forces -- and for a potentially violent confrontation. But by most accounts, the conflict proved tame: some stones were tossed, the police dispersed the crowd and arrested a few young men and the incident was over within half an hour.
In recent months, organized confrontations between Shiite youths and national security forces have become almost weekly events in Bahrain's squalid Shiite townships and villages. 
 The cycle of confrontation, spawned in December when a Shiite cleric from Bahrain was arrested at the airport, is today the most visible sign of the rising sectarian tensions tugging at this sliver of a nation. 
 Bahrain, whose population of about 500,000 citizens and 200,000 expatriates, is two-thirds Shiite, faced sectarian strife bordering on civil war a decade ago. Now it is often seen as a bellwether of Sunni-Shiite relations as Shiite influence in the region continues to grow -- and with it, fear of Iranian meddling. And increasingly here, tensions are bubbling to the surface. 
 ''We don't like going out and demonstrating and closing off streets,'' said Ali Hassan Mushaima, 23, a leader of the Unemployed Youth Movement, a group that agitates for labor rights. ''But there is no other way to put pressure and get the attention of the government. All we are asking for is that our civil demands be met.''
 This once sleepy island, long a weekend playground for Saudis, has become one of the most strategically important spots in the Persian Gulf. It is the base for the United States Navy's Fifth Fleet, produces a notable amount of oil and remains a banking hub. Construction projects, the fruits of Bahrain's share of the oil boom, dot its coastline. 
 Politicians see it differently -- as an enclave that mimics the heavily Shiite demographics of Iraq. In recent years this kingdom has made a series of changes to become a constitutional monarchy. But moves intended to give citizens more say in the government faltered, opposition figures say, and sectarian tensions began to grow as Shiites found their hopes of increased clout dashed. 
 Hard-line Sunnis in Bahrain portray the country as the edge of a so-called Shiite Crescent that is to be controlled by Iran and is threatening to menace the vastly larger predominantly Sunni Arab world. Sunnis and Shiites have no doubt that this small state is heavily affected by what happens in Iraq and Iran. 
 ''It is only natural that we'd be affected by Iraq, but that effect has begun to hurt us,'' said Jassim Reda, deputy head of the municipality of Manama, the capital, and a Shiite politician. ''Whenever things in Iraq go haywire, it reflects here.''
 When the Askariya Shrine in Iraq, a mosque revered by Shiites, was bombed in February, the protests in Bahrain were the largest in its history, with more than 100,000 demonstrators expressing condemnation, including many Sunnis. When United States-led forces laid siege to Falluja in late 2004, Mr. Reda said, Sunnis in Bahrain also marched in significant numbers to show solidarity with Iraq's Sunnis. 
 Shiite politicians insist their demands are simple: they want jobs, equal opportunity in the country's institutions and greater representation in government. But to many Sunnis here, such aspirations sound more like threats to take control. 
 They often see Shiites as inextricably linked to Iran and question their allegiance to Bahrain, pointing to incidents in which demonstrators held up pictures of Iranian leaders and the leaders of the Iranian-backed militant group Hezbollah. Portraits of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, Iran's former supreme leader, and other Iranian clergy hang in many Shiite homes. 
 Mr. Mushaima's group, meanwhile, has adopted a yellow flag. He says it is merely a coincidence that it resembles Hezbollah's trademark banner, but photographs of Hezbollah leaders hang prominently on the walls in his family home. 
 ''This is the start of a major shakeup in Bahrain,'' said Muhammad Khalid Ebrahim, a Salafist Sunni member of Bahrain's Parliament who has railed against Shiite influence in the country. Salafists regard most Shiite doctrine as heresy. 
 ''There is a plan to turn this country into part of a greater Shiite nation,'' he added. ''What they want is the king's seat.'' Sunnis, Mr. Ibrahim said, would never allow that. Even moderate Sunnis note that the Shiite opposition is fighting for control more than reform. In one Shiite village, a spray- painted message on a wall explains their angst: ''Khalifa, just step down from your perch,'' it said, referring to Bahrain's king, Hamad al-Khalifa. 
 Shiites bristle at the persistent accusations of allegiance to Iran. They insist that their ties to Iran are purely spiritual, but emphasize that their allegiance is to the land of Bahrain, not to a personality or a leader. 
 ''The government accuses us of being Iranian pawns, but we don't need Iran's help, we need the West's help,'' said Abdul Hadi al-Khawaja, director of the Bahrain Center for Human Rights, a Shiite-dominated group that was banned in 2004. ''Any support from Iran ultimately weakens us.''
 Tensions came to a climax in December when Sheik Khalid Hamed Mansour Sanad, a prominent Shiite cleric, was detained at the airport upon arrival from Iran. Hundreds of protesters flocked to the airport to demand his release, and violence broke out, leading to many arrests.
 Many of those arrested were still in custody in March when Shiite parties demonstrated for their release as thousands of dignitaries descended on Bahrain for a Formula One Grand Prix race. Police efforts to break up the protest prompted rioting, which left tires and garbage burning at a shopping mall. 
 Demonstrators have since held quiet weekly protests in various parts of Manama to demand the release of those arrested, and organized confrontations by Shiite youth have raged outside the city. On April 11, a Bahraini appeals court acquitted one protester, halved the sentences of eight and upheld those of four others. Thirty-four prisoners arrested during the incident remain in custody, in addition to others arrested in the demonstrations that followed. 
 Many say they hope the storm will soon pass. 
 ''They say this is the golden age for the Shia,'' said Sheik Ahmed Mahouzi, a prominent Shiite cleric. ''But that can only happen if they are just, and have strong allies. Otherwise they will lose everything when the Americans leave Iraq.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Muhammad Khalid Ebrahim, a Sunni lawmaker, with a picture of Bahrain's leaders. He says he fears the rising influence of Bahrain's Shiites.
 Shiites last week in Manama, Bahrain, demanded the release of detainees arrested during earlier protests. (Photographs by Stephanie Kuykendal for The New York Times)Map of Bahrain highlighting Manama: Shiite youths have clashed with the police in Manama, the capital.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); RIOTS (90%); TEXT MESSAGING (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); NAVIES (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); ARRESTS (75%); CIVIL WAR (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); POLITICS (65%); TERRORISM (59%); CONSTRUCTION (50%) Shiite Muslims; Sunni Muslims; Demonstrations and Riots; Terrorism; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Islam

PERSON: Hassan M Fattah

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (79%) BAHRAIN (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GULF STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) Bahrain; Iraq; Iran; Bahrain

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



367 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: Chad Vows to Cut Oil in Feud With World Bank 

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: NDJAMENA, Chad, April 15 

 BODY:
Chad threatened Saturday to cut off its flow of oil unless the World Bank releases money frozen in a dispute over how the government should use its oil revenues.
 The announcement followed a late-night meeting by President Idriss Deby and his cabinet to discuss their response to the rebel attack on the capital on Thursday. The rebels, led by former commanders in Mr. Deby's army, were repulsed but are believed to be regrouping nearby. 
 It is likely that the government wants the frozen money to pay for its fight against the rebels.
 Chad had a deal with the World Bank to pay for a pipeline on condition that most of the revenues would be used to ease poverty. Mr. Deby broke that deal this year to use the money to finance his military, prompting the World Bank to suspend $124 million in aid.
 The government gave the World Bank until Tuesday to unfreeze the money, saying that if it did not do so Chad would shut down the pipeline that carries its oil through Cameroon to terminals on the Atlantic Ocean.
 Chad exports about 160,000 barrels per day, a small amount by world standards.
 An Exxon Mobil-led consortium exported 133 million barrels of oil from Chad from October 2003 to December 2005, according to the World Bank. Chad earned $307 million, the bank said.
 Hourmadji Moussa Doumgor, the communications minister and government spokesman, said the effort to restrict how the government spends its oil revenues violated Chad's sovereignty. He said government officials would enter into negotiations with the consortium so that oil revenues would no longer be deposited into Western banks but would go directly to the government.
 Earlier Mr. Deby announced that he was severing relations with neighboring Sudan, from which the rebels started their run at Ndjamena, and he threatened to expel 200,000 Sudanese refugees from his country if the international community did not do more to stop what he said were Sudanese efforts to destabilize his government.
 Mr. Deby has repeatedly accused Sudan of hiring mercenaries to overthrow his government. 
 Sudan has denied the accusation, and in turn has accused Chad of supporting fighters in its volatile Darfur region, where Arab militias and African rebels have fought for nearly three years, with the Arab militias forcing out Sudanese farmers in a campaign of rape, killing and arson that the United States has labeled genocide.
 The Central African Republic said Friday that it was closing its border with Sudan after the rebels passed through the northern part of the country on their way from Sudan to attack Ndjamena.
 The rebels released a statement again condemning Mr. Deby's refusal to negotiate with them. 
 ''The regime of Idriss Deby is the basis of the crisis in this part of the African continent,'' it said.
 A major issue has been Mr. Deby's decision to change the Constitution so he can run for a third term in elections set for May 3.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); ARMIES (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (69%); REFUGEES (69%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (68%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (67%); GENOCIDE (62%); ARSON (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Pipelines; Foreign Aid

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) SUDAN (96%); CHAD (94%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CAMEROON (79%) Chad

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



368 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1464 words

HEADLINE: In New Jersey, Spending Cap Pinches Schools

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
As residents of New Jersey prepare to vote on their school budgets on Tuesday, educators and parents say that they are struggling with a major crisis forcing districts to cut programs, shed staff and charge fees for things that were once free.
 The chief culprit, they say, is not a public opposed to public education, or an onerous federal mandate, but a recent state law that limits the annual growth in spending by school districts to 2.5 percent or the increase in inflation, whichever is more.
The law also requires that budget surpluses exceeding 2 percent be returned to taxpayers.
 In Glen Ridge, officials say the law has meant that parents of children in pre-kindergarten programs in public schools must now pay tuition of $1,000 a year, while parents of high school students are required to pay a $200 fee before their children can play sports or join after-school clubs. 
 In Marlboro, it has meant that parents had to swaddle their children in extra clothing during the winter because the schools lowered the heat to save tens of thousands of dollars, school officials and parents say.
 And in the Hopewell Valley district, four bus routes were eliminated and seven teachers, six teacher aides and two vice principals sliced from the payroll, all so the district could stay within the spending cap.
 The law, known as S-1701, was passed in 2004 with broad bipartisan support and signed by the governor at the time, James E. McGreevey.
 Supporters say the law has imposed vigorous fiscal discipline, while easing property taxes.
 They also say that by embracing such an approach, however unpopular, lawmakers have sent a powerful message at a time when the state is grappling with a $4 billion budget shortfall, and surging pension, insurance and debt-service costs. 
 ''I think people are crying wolf,'' said State Senator Wayne R. Bryant, a Democrat from Camden County who is chairman of the Senate budget committee and a sponsor of the original bill.
 ''They want total freedom to do their budgets without the transparency,'' he continued. ''But they just can't hoard money that is taxpayers' money.'' 
 But critics, including many parent organizations, say the law has shackled districts by preventing them from having enough money or administrative freedom to absorb unexpected costs, such as emergency repairs or exorbitant fuel and insurance bills. It has also stripped districts of some of their decision-making authority.
 The fiscal problems have been compounded, school officials say, because state aid to all schools has remained flat for the last five years. 
 ''You can call any district, and everybody is going to have something affected by this,'' said Alan C. Reiffe, business administrator for the Wyckoff School District, which, in part because of the restrictions imposed by 1701, was forced to borrow $200,000 to pay for bathrooms in new school trailers. ''It's just impossible. Your hands are tied when you're trying to do the operations of a district.''
 The outcry has prompted some legislators to introduce bills to loosen or even repeal the law.
 State Senator Leonard Lance, a Republican from Hunterdon County who is the minority leader, said he favored expanding the maximum surplus to perhaps 4 percent.
 The issue has also attracted the attention of Gov. Jon S. Corzine. At a town hall meeting on the budget last month at Montclair State University, he said he would not seek to repeal the law. But he said it had ''striking problems'' and suggested that amendments might be needed to allow for increases in costs of energy and pensions. 
 ''The answer is not that I wouldn't like to,'' Mr. Corzine said of scrapping the law, ''but I believe that it would be very difficult to say that we're going to make all these other difficult choices and then not ask for discipline where there are large amounts of state aid.'' 
 New Jersey schools receive, on average, about 40 percent of their annual funds from the state, and 60 percent from local property taxes, while the national average is about 50-50. But those figures do not give the whole picture, because state aid generally amounts to less than 10 percent of the budgets in the wealthiest districts, while the poorest ones, called Abbott districts after a long-running lawsuit, rely almost exclusively on state aid.
 In 2004, legislators tried to curtail the growth in education spending and came up with S-1701, as part of a broader package that increased taxes on incomes of more than $500,000 and called for a constitutional convention on property taxes.
 ''It's the only salvation the taxpayers have in the current out-of-control spending,'' said Jerry Cantrell, president of the Silver Brigade, a statewide grassroots group that seeks to reduce property taxes. ''The schools always hide behind the 'it's for the kids' mantra and it's hard for the average citizen to mount a salable argument against it.'' 
 But Moody's Investors Service released a report in August 2004 warning that New Jersey's 2 percent surplus cap would be ''among the lowest school district reserves in the country'' and that such a limit could ''bring negative credit pressure.''
 In May 2005, the New Jersey School Boards Association, which supports a repeal, surveyed its members, and found that many reported that S-1701 had had a negative impact. 
 The bond rating for Paramus slipped, according to the group. Galloway Township cut its clubs and activities by 50 percent. Parents in Hopewell Valley and Wyckoff were asked to pay for part of their children's field trips. And, in an indication of the loss of local authority, Rumson asked Trenton for permission to use its surplus to hire a new fifth-grade teacher but was denied.
 State Senator Ellen Karcher, a Democrat from Monmouth County, said she felt the ramifications in two ways: as a legislator who introduced a bill to increase the maximum surplus to 3 percent, and as a parent of twin daughters in the Marlboro school system. A few months ago, she said, she found a note in one of her daughter's backpacks explaining that the school district would turn off or lower the heat to save money.
 This year, several districts, including Cherry Hill, Northvale and Franklin Borough, had no choice but to raise taxes by amounts higher than anticipated, according to the New Jersey School Boards Association. The districts have less money to work with, after returning surpluses the previous year, but higher costs because of energy, insurance and other bills, the group said.
 ''What's frustrating about it to me is that supposedly it's to provide good government, but it seems like more of a political fix to artificially reduce tax rates by reducing surplus,'' said Andrea L. Kahn, a bond attorney and partner at McManimon & Scotland in Newark, who has worked on numerous municipal bond issues. ''But by reducing surplus and taxes in a given year, and causing taxes to bounce back the following year, you're really hurting the ability of a local government to plan for tax stabilization.''
 Around the country, state and local governments often mandate spending caps for local school districts, but there have been more attempts of late to loosen existing caps, rather than create new ones, said Jason Wisecup, an education finance researcher for the National Conference of State Legislatures.
 California, of course, drastically reduced property taxes and slashed services under Proposition 13, to the detriment of the education system. Colorado mandated spending limits in 1992, then abandoned those caps in a referendum last year, because Gov. Bill Owens, a Republican, successfully argued that the spending limits meant that the state could not ''keep pace with the demands of the budget.'' And this year, Texas, with no income tax and strict limits on property taxes, faces a court-threatened shutdown of its public schools for ignoring constitutional limits on local property taxes.
 But it seems unlikely that S-1701 will be repealed any time soon. None of the top Democrats in the legislature -- including Mr. Bryant, former Gov. Richard J. Codey and Assembly Speaker Joseph J. Roberts Jr. -- have indicated much interest in doing so.
 And in an interview after a recent budget hearing in Trenton, Assemblyman Louis D. Greenwald of Camden County, chairman of the Assembly budget committee, also sounded skeptical. He noted that a recent investigation by the State Commission of Investigation found that many school boards had provided top administrators with cars, computers, cellphones, improper pension increases and donations to tax-deferred annuities.
 So S-1701, in his mind, is the right tool for school boards. 
 ''I'm not saying that it's not a larger challenge for them,'' Mr. Greenwald said, ''but it's a challenge that many of them need.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: State Senator Ellen Karcher, Democrat of Monmouth County, wants to relax a provision of the law that limits school districts' budget surpluses. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 30)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); TUITION FEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PARAEDUCATORS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (74%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (73%); SCHOOL & EMPLOYEE BUS SERVICES (71%) Education and Schools; Law and Legislation; Finances; Tuition; Budgets and Budgeting; Taxation; Property Taxes; Teachers and School Employees; Buses; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: David W Chen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



369 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; 3 Perspectives On Immigration, From the Inside: The Immigrant; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: Dreaming of U.S. Citizenship

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
Three voices. Three people, each with a small piece of the swirling story of illegal immigration in the United States, cannot answer the tangled questions that have washed over politics recently with a sudden, jolting wave.
 Do 11 million illegal immigrants pose an economic question for the nation, or a political one? Is the debate about the jobs that American-born resident will not do, or the jobs being taken from them? Is it about enforcing rules, or acknowledging rights?
 Miguel A. Carvajal parks cars for a living in a garage in Manhattan and hopes for something better. Myles Gladstone employs immigrants and wants the best for them -- and for his construction company near Washington, D.C. Waldo Benavidez sits in a low-income neighborhood in Denver and watches with anxiety and anger at the fate of the American poor who he thinks are being hurt by immigrants. He wants the border closed. 
 Each comes from a different place and sees a different picture. They disagree not just about what should happen in Congress and in the state capitals that are wrestling with immigration legislation, but even about where to start.

 In Jackson Heights, Queens, last week, a line of people stretched outside Orlando Travel, a small booth between a lingerie shop and a perfume store in a mini-mall. One of them, Miguel A. Carvajal, clung to a folder of papers and to the hope that what he was doing -- filing his taxes -- would help him change his status as an illegal immigrant.
 The owner of the travel agency, Orlando Tobon, who also prepares income tax forms for many of the Colombian immigrants in the area, reviewed Mr. Carvajal's federal and state tax forms, stapled them and handed them back. He took his fee of $40 and slipped it into his pocket.
 Mr. Carvajal said that since coming to New York from Colombia in October 2001, he has paid taxes on his earnings each year, hoping it will help him apply for citizenship so that he can bring over his wife and daughter, who have been unable to win visas to settle in the United States.
 Mr. Carvajal, 40, left behind his family and a solid job as a traffic police officer and bought a round-trip plane ticket to New York, as if taking a vacation. He got a job parking cars at a Manhattan garage for minimum wage and found that the people back home were right: he could make more money at a minimum-wage job in New York than he could directing traffic in Medellin.
 He held out his 2005 tax form and pointed to his gross income -- $23,489 -- which he said came from working seven days a week and all the overtime he could get.
 Mr. Carvajal is one of the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants in the United States who would be affected by proposed legislation to create a guest-worker program for immigrants who have lived in here for two or more years, and an easier path to citizenship for those who have lived here at least five years.
 Mr. Carvajal said all he really knew about the proposed bill was that it would be likely to help him, since he has been here almost five years: working hard, paying his taxes and staying out of trouble. ''I'm glad the government is doing something to help us,'' he said. ''The only reason we moved here is to work hard.''
 He added, ''I'm glad to pay taxes if it means I can start building my life here.''
 Mr. Carvajal said he decided to pay taxes in good faith, hoping that the government would respond in kind with an offer to let him earn his citizenship.
 He lives in a small room he rents for $400 a month in Woodside with a bathroom in the hall he shares with three other men, all Colombian and in a similar situation.
 He commutes on the elevated No. 7 train, known as the immigrant express, which rumbles along Roosevelt Avenue, bringing workers into Manhattan from Flushing, Corona, Jackson Heights and Woodside.
 Mr. Carvajal works evenings for $6.50 an hour at a small parking garage in Manhattan, where the required skills are parking in tight spaces and saying as little as possible. He knows just enough English to tell customers how much they owe for how many hours parked.
 He earns $300 a week plus tips, $65 of which is withheld in taxes, he said. He has no benefits or health insurance and spends as little as possible on himself -- rent, food, clothing, subway fare and cellphone, and he tries to avoid the doctor.
 He tries to send $300 a month to his parents and his wife and daughter in Colombia, he said. The money has helped buy a house for them and paid the private school tuition for his daughter, Veronica, 16, whose voice on the telephone no longer sounds like that of the 11-year-old girl he left behind.
 ''In my mind, she is still a little girl, but I know she is a woman now,'' he said. ''I feel like I don't know her anymore.''
 His family speaks reverentially of New York, but that is not the city he knows, he said. A walk around Midtown on a Sunday is the most he sees. Having illegal status means a precarious life, he said. He is nervous in public and refrains from socializing for fear of getting involved in anything that could lead to an encounter with people bearing badges.
 On Thursday night, he stared westward down a Manhattan street at a sliver of pink sunset fading to darkness. He traded in a life as a happy but poor father for the chance at a more prosperous future for his family in America, he said, and he recently made a bargain with himself to give it two more years to see if citizenship will ever be possible.
 ''If not, I give up and go home,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: MIGUEL A. CARVAJAL -- Parking attendant in Manhattan, left, with Orlando Tobon (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); NATURALIZATION (78%); REFUGEES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); MINIMUM WAGE (76%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (75%); OVERTIME (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); CITIZENSHIP (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); TRAVEL TICKETS (66%); LINGERIE & HOSIERY STORES (65%); COSMETICS & BEAUTY SUPPLY STORES (65%); INCOME TAX (64%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants

PERSON: miguel a carvajal; myles gladstone; waldo benavidez

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); COLOMBIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



370 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; 3 Perspectives On Immigration, From the Inside: The Advocate; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: A Liberal's Contrarian Views 

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: DENVER, April 15 

 BODY:
Three voices. Three people, each with a small piece of the swirling story of illegal immigration in the United States, cannot answer the tangled questions that have washed over politics recently with a sudden, jolting wave.
 Do 11 million illegal immigrants pose an economic question for the nation, or a political one? Is the debate about the jobs that American-born resident will not do, or the jobs being taken from them? Is it about enforcing rules, or acknowledging rights?
 Miguel A. Carvajal parks cars for a living in a garage in Manhattan and hopes for something better. Myles Gladstone employs immigrants and wants the best for them -- and for his construction company near Washington, D.C. Waldo Benavidez sits in a low-income neighborhood in Denver and watches with anxiety and anger at the fate of the American poor who he thinks are being hurt by immigrants. He wants the border closed. 
 Each comes from a different place and sees a different picture. They disagree not just about what should happen in Congress and in the state capitals that are wrestling with immigration legislation, but even about where to start.
 Sitting at the Auraria Community Center here on a recent morning with his cat, Tails, perched before him on the desk, Waldo Benavidez gestured to a large portrait of Emiliano Zapata, the leader of the 1910 Mexican revolution -- and Mr. Benavidez's personal hero. 
 Mexicans here illegally, Mr. Benavidez said, should take a lesson from those days and return home to fight for change in their own country.
 ''If you're tough enough to cross the desert, you're tough to take on your own government and change it,'' he said. 
 Mr. Benavidez has spent most of his adult life working on behalf of the poor. For the last 25 years he has managed the community center and a food bank here on Denver's west side, where low-income families can get groceries. He marched for civil rights in the 1960's and relishes the memory of his first vote for president, for John F. Kennedy, in 1960.
 But immigration's tangled implications have pushed him out of his comfortable old political box with its predictably liberal labels and causes. Supporting the poor in America, he said, now means shutting down the system that has created a flood of even poorer immigrants from Mexico. 
 ''It has nothing to do with whether I like Mexicans, or whether I've got one foot in Mexico myself because of my ancestry -- I'm an American first,'' said Mr. Benavidez, 67. ''I'm very liberal on a lot of issues, but on this one I've taken a stand because of the impact it has on the working people of this country.''
 Mr. Benavidez, whose ancestors have been in the West for 250 years, since the days of the Spanish empire, supports sealing the Mexican border, and is working for a proposed ballot proposition here in Colorado that would deny government social services to illegal immigrants. 
 He rails against multinational corporations that he says have rigged the political systems of the United States and Mexico to keep the border porous as a tool for suppressing wages and labor unions. 
 A Democrat, he nonetheless says he may vote for his first Republican ever this fall because he thinks many Democrats are ''pandering'' to Hispanic voters on the immigration issue and not keeping their eyes on what is good for the country.
 Mr. Benavidez said he had been offended by the recent waves of protests around the country, with illegal immigrants demanding rights, and by the comparisons that had been made between those efforts and the civil rights struggles of the past over things like voter registration. 
 ''This is not a civil rights issue,'' he said. ''These people are not citizens demanding their rights -- that's different.''
 Hispanics, like all Americans, are divided in their thinking about illegal immigrants. In a poll in February and March by the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press and the Pew Hispanic Center, about one in five Hispanics said that illegal immigrants should be required to go home, compared with just over half of the respondents as a whole who said that. Almost one-third of Hispanics in the survey said they thought illegal immigrants should not be eligible for social services provided by state and local governments, compared with about two-thirds of the respondents as a whole who thought services should be denied. 
 Mr. Benavidez also acknowledged that his position was not without its inconsistencies. Many illegal immigrants are poor people, too, like his multigeneration Hispanic neighbors here in Denver, just from a different place. And immigration is not the only source of poverty or downward wage pressures in a society.
 ''It's a complicated issue, and I don't have all the answers,'' he said. ''I do know that there's injustice.''
 Mr. Benavidez said that to him, the issue is not about ethnicity at all. It is about governments allowing poor people to sink further into poverty by indifference or direct action -- and both the United States and Mexico, he said, are guilty. 
 In places like Denver, he said, the social safety net of job training programs and educational support efforts embodied by the Great Society programs of the 1960's would once have made illegal immigration less of a blow to the American poor. But those protections have largely been stripped away over the years. 
 In Mexico, the oligarchy of wealthy families that he said controlled most of the power had exploited the poor just as callously, shipping them north as a safety valve to diffuse political pressure for economic reform.
 What is changing this year, and putting the immigration issue on the burner in Washington and in state capitals, Mr. Benavidez said, is that the middle class suddenly cares about immigration, and he thinks a political thunderclap could result in this fall's elections if people are still aroused.
 ''There is a revolt out there,'' he said. ''Change will come.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: WALDO BENAVIDEZ -- Food bank manager and advocate for the poor (Photo by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); POLITICS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); FAMILY (72%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (69%); FOOD CHARITIES (50%) Immigration and Refugees; Labor; Organized Labor; Illegal Immigrants

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (64%) Kirk Johnson; waldo benavidez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (95%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



371 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Virtual Army of Bloggers Battles a Development

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
When a state agency released plans for studying the environmental impact of the proposed Atlantic Yards project, a vast residential, commercial and arena development near Downtown Brooklyn, the response from critics was swift, brutal -- and largely online.
 ''Major flaws in the final scope,'' pronounced Norman Oder, the proprietor of the blog Atlantic Yards Report, pointing out that the agency, the Empire State Development Corporation, had not examined the possible security risks facing the 18,000-seat arena.
 The architect Jonathan Cohn, who runs brooklynviews.blogspot.com, noticed that the project's developer, Forest City Ratner Companies, was planning to use a part of the site as a temporary parking lot. 
 Another blogger, Aaron Naparstek, pored through the 41-page plan and compared the project's latest building designs to a ''1960's-era housing project.''
 Like any developer, Forest City Ratner has had to contend with suspicious community groups, concerned politicians and skeptical editorial boards while seeking approval for the 8.7-million-square-foot venture. 
 But Atlantic Yards may well be the first large-scale urban real estate venture in New York City where opposition has coalesced most visibly in the blogosphere. 
 ''If Jane Jacobs had the tools and technology back when she was fighting Robert Moses' plans to bulldoze Lower Manhattan, I bet 'The Death and Life of Great American Cities' would have been a blog,'' said Mr. Naparstek, 35, referring to Ms. Jacobs's seminal 1963 book criticizing the urban renewal policies in vogue among city planners of that era.
 About a dozen blogs follow Atlantic Yards closely. The authors are usually Brooklynites, some of them experts in fields like urban development. But even the amateurs among them have boned up on arcane zoning provisions and planning-law quirks that can induce headaches among the less devoted. 
 The result is an unusual ferment of community advocacy and opinion journalism, featuring everything from manipulated caricatures of Forest City Ratner executives to technical discussions of traffic flow.
 There is also comedy: Last week, the Web site leathertomato.com posted Atlantic Yards-themed versions of traditional Passover songs. (''Why is it that Brownstone Brooklyn consists of unleavened low-rise buildings, but at Atlantic Yards Bruce Ratner wants to build 17 high-rise buildings?'' asks a reworked ''The Four Questions.'')
 ''We definitely follow the opposition Web pages,'' said Joe DePlasco, a spokesman for Forest City Ratner and an occasional target of the bloggers' gibes. ''They provide great access to clips and some of them are pretty well written. There is, however, a sense of self-importance and anger that often pops out.'' In November, Mr. DePlasco was the subject of a 4,200-word blog item plumbing ''the dark genius of Ratner flack Joe DePlasco.'' 
 But the blogs more often focus on the project, which gained its own Web site -- atlanticyards.com -- and recently had a list of what Forest City Ratner says are the project's benefits for Brooklyn residents. A day later, the site had already drawn jeers from at least two blogs.
 Mr. Cohn, the architect, who lives in Park Slope, started Brooklyn Views this year and quickly earned attention from other Atlantic Yards bloggers for his analysis of the project's floor-area ratio, a measure of density. His argument -- that the Atlantic Yards would be more dense than advertised because it eliminated otherwise open city streets to create the ''superblock'' on which the project will be built -- was quickly added to opponents' talking points.
 Daniel Goldstein, the spokesman for Develop Don't Destroy Brooklyn, a group opposed to the Atlantic Yards, said that the blogs ''have been a key part of the public education about the project.''
 Lumi Michelle Rolley, a Web designer who lives in Park Slope, is one of four people who run nolandgrab.org, a site that rounds up news articles about Atlantic Yards and other projects around the country where eminent domain is an issue. Media criticism is a favorite activity among Atlantic Yards bloggers. Forest City Ratner is the development partner in building a new Midtown headquarters for The New York Times Company, a connection not missed by those who have asserted that this paper's coverage is too friendly to the developer.
 Mr. Oder said he spent up to 25 hours a week on atlanticyardsreport.blogspot.com, a successor to his original blog, Times Ratner Report. Hardly a hearing, community meeting or news story relating to the project escapes scrutiny. 
 He started blogging last September, he said, because ''Brooklyn would be one of the largest cities in the country if it were a separate city.''
 ''Then,'' he added, ''it would have its own daily newspaper, which would pay a lot more attention to the largest real estate development in its history.''


CORRECTION-DATE: April 19, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about the Web logs dedicated to covering the Atlantic Yards development project near Downtown Brooklyn misstated the publication year of ''The Death and Life of Great American Cities,'' Jane Jacobs's critique of urban renewal policies of the 1950's. It was 1961, not 1963.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Amy Greer, right, and Lumi Michelle Rolley at a Prospect Heights bar working on their Web site, nolandgrab.org, about the Atlantic Yards project. Numerous blogs follow the proposal closely. (Photo by Angela Jimenez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (92%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ZONING (78%); CITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); WRITERS (74%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%) Area Planning and Renewal; Atlantic Yards (Brooklyn); Blogs and Blogging (Internet); Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: RATNER COS (84%); EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: Forest City Ratner

INDUSTRY: SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (84%)

PERSON: Nicholas Confessore

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



372 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: I'm O.K., You're Biased

BYLINE: By Daniel Gilbert. 
Daniel Gilbert, a professor of psychology at Harvard, is the author of the forthcoming ''Stumbling on Happiness.''

DATELINE: Cambridge, Mass. 

 BODY:
VERIZON had a pretty bad year in 2005, but its chief executive did fine. Although Verizon's earnings dropped by more than 5 percent and its stock fell by more than a quarter, he received a 48 percent increase in salary and compensation. This handsome payout was based on the recommendation of an independent consulting firm that relied on Verizon (and the chief executive's good will) for much of its revenue. When asked about this conflict of interest, the consulting firm explained that it had ''strict policies in place to ensure the independence and objectivity of all our consultants.''
 Please stop laughing.
The person who made this statement was almost certainly sincere. Consultants believe they can make objective decisions about the companies that indirectly employ them, just as legislators believe that campaign contributions don't influence their votes. 
 Doctors scoff at the notion that gifts from a pharmaceutical company could motivate them to prescribe that company's drugs, and Supreme Court justices are confident that their legal opinions are not influenced by their financial stake in a defendant's business, or by their child's employment at a petitioner's firm. Vice President Dick Cheney is famously contemptuous of those who suggest that his former company received special consideration for government contracts. 
 Voters, citizens, patients and taxpayers can barely keep a straight face. They know that consultants and judges are human beings who are pulled by loyalties and pushed by animosities, and that drug reps and lobbyists are human beings who wouldn't be generous if generosity didn't pay dividends. Most people have been around people long enough to have a pretty good idea of what drives their decisions, and when decision-makers deny what seems obvious to the rest of us, the rest of us get miffed. Sell our democracy to the highest bidder, but don't insult our intelligence. 
 So who's right -- the decision-makers who claim objectivity or the citizens who roll their eyes? Research suggests that decision-makers don't realize just how easily and often their objectivity is compromised. The human brain knows many tricks that allow it to consider evidence, weigh facts and still reach precisely the conclusion it favors. 
 When our bathroom scale delivers bad news, we hop off and then on again, just to make sure we didn't misread the display or put too much pressure on one foot. When our scale delivers good news, we smile and head for the shower. By uncritically accepting evidence when it pleases us, and insisting on more when it doesn't, we subtly tip the scales in our favor. 
 Research suggests that the way we weigh ourselves in the bathroom is the way we weigh evidence outside it. Two psychologists, Peter Ditto and David Lopez, told subjects that they were being tested for a dangerous enzyme deficiency. Subjects placed a drop of saliva on a test strip and waited to see if it turned green. Some subjects were told that the strip would turn green if they had the deficiency, and others were told that the strip would turn green if they did not. In fact, the strip was just an ordinary piece of paper that never changed color. 
 So how long did subjects stare at the strip before accepting its conclusion? Those who were hoping to see the strip turn green waited a lot longer than those who were hoping not to. Good news may travel slowly, but people are willing to wait for it to arrive. 
 The same researchers asked subjects to evaluate a student's intelligence by examining information about him one piece at a time. The information was quite damning, and subjects were told they could stop examining it as soon as they'd reached a firm conclusion. Results showed that when subjects liked the student they were evaluating, they turned over one card after another, searching for the one piece of information that might allow them to say something nice about him. But when they disliked the student, they turned over a few cards, shrugged and called it a day. 
 Much of what happens in the brain is not evident to the brain itself, and thus people are better at playing these sorts of tricks on themselves than at catching themselves in the act. People realize that humans deceive themselves, of course, but they don't seem to realize that they too are human. 
 A Princeton University research team asked people to estimate how susceptible they and ''the average person'' were to a long list of judgmental biases; the majority of people claimed to be less biased than the majority of people. A 2001 study of medical residents found that 84 percent thought that their colleagues were influenced by gifts from pharmaceutical companies, but only 16 percent thought that they were similarly influenced. Dozens of studies have shown that when people try to overcome their judgmental biases -- for example, when they are given information and told not to let it influence their judgment -- they simply can't comply, even when money is at stake. 
 And yet, if decision-makers are more biased than they realize, they are less biased than the rest of us suspect. Research shows that while people underestimate the influence of self-interest on their own judgments and decisions, they overestimate its influence on others. 
 For instance, two psychologists, Dale Miller and Rebecca Ratner, asked people to predict how many others would agree to give blood for free or for $15, and people predicted that the monetary incentive would double the rate of blood donation. But when the researchers actually asked people to give blood, they found they were just as willing to do it for nothing as they were for a $15 reward. 
 The same researchers measured people's attitudes toward smoking bans and asked them to guess the attitudes of others. They found that smokers vastly overestimated the support of nonsmokers for the bans, as did nonsmokers the opposition of smokers to the bans -- in other words, neither group was quite as self-interested as the other group believed. 
 Behavioral economics bolsters psychology's case. When subjects play laboratory games that allow them to walk away with cash, self-interest dictates that they should get all the cash they can carry. But scores of experiments show that subjects are willing to forgo cash in order to play nice.
 For instance, when subjects are given a sum of money and told that they can split it with an unseen stranger in any proportion they like, they typically give the stranger a third or more, even though they could just as easily have given him nothing. When subjects play the opposite role and are made the recipients of such splits, they typically refuse any split they consider grossly unfair, preferring to walk away with nothing than to accept an unjust distribution. 
 In a recent study, the economists Ernst Fehr and Simon Gachter had subjects play a game in which members of a team could earn money when everyone pitched in. They found that subjects were willing to spend their money just to make sure freeloaders on the team didn't earn any. Studies such as these suggest that people act in their own interests, but that their interests include ideals of fairness, prudence and generosity. 
 In short, doctors, judges, consultants and vice presidents strive for truth more often than we realize, and miss that mark more often than they realize. Because the brain cannot see itself fooling itself, the only reliable method for avoiding bias is to avoid the situations that produce it. 
 When doctors refuse to accept gifts from those who supply drugs to their patients, when justices refuse to hear cases involving those with whom they share familial ties and when chief executives refuse to let their compensation be determined by those beholden to them, then everyone sleeps well. 
 Until then, behavioral scientists have plenty to study.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); DIVIDENDS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%); EVIDENCE (72%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (68%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (68%); PETITIONS (68%); ENZYMES (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); BRAIN (67%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (65%) Brain; Research; Brain

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (90%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (90%); VZ (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (55%) Daniel (Prof) Gilbert

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



373 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; BY THE WAY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: The Fall After Camden's Decline

BYLINE: By ROBERT STRAUSS

 BODY:
Howard Gillette Jr. was an expert on how Washington deals with urban policy when he was on a sabbatical appointment in the history department at Rutgers University-Camden. But Mr. Gillette's focus soon became the decline in the fortunes of the city that housed his temporary academic home. His new book, ''Camden After the Fall: Decline and Renewal in a Post-Industrial City'' (University of Pennsylvania Press, $39.95), is the best study so far about the virtual collapse in the late 20th century of South Jersey's largest city. 
 The major question Mr. Gillette tries to answer: Was the breakdown in practically every aspect of urban living inevitable in Camden? The title of the book is not quite right, since the best parts of the book describe Camden's fall, one not particularly masterminded, but certainly made worse, by politicians and their failure to address racism and the loss of jobs.
Camden was not prepared for the post-World War II move away from industrialism to a service economy. It was never really a booming city, but it once had some major employers -- RCA, Campbell's Soup and Esterbrook Pen among them.
 Each one of them, though, either died or were diminished by the 1970's. These days, only Campbell's remains with its world headquarters, but no packing or manufacturing facilities as it had at midcentury.
 As jobs vanished, so did the middle class of all races. While other cities, like Philadelphia across the Delaware River, replaced lost jobs with entertainment, restaurant, technology and other service jobs, Camden simply fizzled. Mr. Gillette's book shows how administration after administration in the city fumbled chances to halt the exodus -- some by graft, others merely by either lack of foresight or by outright incompetence.
 While there were also hard-working and well-meaning characters trying to prop up Camden, many others just became frustrated and left. Now the state has virtually taken over the day-to-day running of its poorest city, and Mr. Gillette, as he finishes his book, wonders how and whether things will ever get substantially better. The ''renewal'' in his subtitle indicates at least the possibility of a possibility, but as his book shows, the forces that drove Camden down were great. And, perhaps, the enthusiasm to reverse the decline may have been sapped even more. ROBERT STRAUSS


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAYOFFS (72%); LITERATURE (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (71%); RACE & RACISM (67%); RESTAURANTS (67%); WORLD WAR II (52%) Books and Literature; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%)

PERSON: Robert Strauss; howard jr gillette

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%) Camden (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



374 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2232 words

HEADLINE: How a Mall in the Meadowlands Is Bleeding a Company

BYLINE: By LAURA MANSNERUS

DATELINE: EAST RUTHERFORD 

 BODY:
NORTHERN New Jersey is to shopping centers what the Napa Valley is to wineries. Paramus registers higher retail sales than any other ZIP code in the United States. And still there has always been room for more.
 So the Mills Corporation -- the acquisitive Virginia-based developer of shopping centers and megamalls -- got a piece of Bergen County, with the help of the State of New Jersey, and named it Meadowlands Xanadu. With a price tag put at $1.2 billion, it was by far the most extravagant vision of a company that aimed to entice Americans to shop amid a swirl of entertainment, in this case a multistory fun palace ringing the Continental Arena in the Meadowlands Sports Complex.
Xanadu is now under construction, and Mills, whose accounting practices are under investigation by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, is in the middle of a financial meltdown, looking for a buyer and running out of cash. 
 Last week, the company's lenders gave it a new lease on life, but a very short lease, under terms that most stock analysts said would probably leave an unfinished Xanadu in the hands of a new owner or a court. Some analysts said that in all likelihood the company would be sold by the end of the year. 
 Xanadu's landlord, the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, was already worried that Mills might not deliver the recreation and entertainment facilities that were promised for the site, since those enticements are more expensive to build and less profitable to run than retail stores.
 But now the authority cannot even be sure that it will have a successful shopping mall, given doubts about the project's potential profitability. Although the names of several potential buyers have been floated in recent weeks, the authority certainly cannot know who will eventually become its partner and tenant on one of the most valuable pieces of real estate between Washington and Boston. 
 It is entirely possible that the project will open on schedule in late 2007, although engineering plans are being rewritten daily and only 4 or 5 tenants of about 200 are known to have signed leases. ''It's not in anybody's interest to have partially built structures without ongoing construction activity,'' said Carl Goldberg, the chairman of the sports authority, who is a real estate developer himself. 
 As to whether Xanadu left Mills overextended financially, opinions differ. ''It's probably no one thing'' that paralyzed Mills, said Barry Vinocur, the editor of Realty Stock Review, a California-based newsletter. ''They believed they were masters of the universe. They wanted to grow the company, grow it more rapidly, and they didn't have the controls in place.''
 But others say Xanadu became a huge tail wagging a shrinking dog. ''They bet the whole company on this project,'' said David Lichtenstein, the chief executive of the Lightstone Group, a Lakewood-based privately held national mall owner that is one of Mills's potential buyers. 
 In either case, there is little question that Mills compromised itself when it signed on to build Xanadu, demonstrating that even with a choice site five miles from Central Park, reach can exceed grasp. 
 Xanadu was to be the biggest and most spectacular of Mills's approximately 40 malls around the world. The company, building on a base of successful if unexceptional off-price centers like Franklin Mills in Philadelphia and Potomac Mills in Prince William County, Va., was pitching a newer idea that it called ''shoppertainment'' when in 2002 it won the contract to be the lead developer of 104 acres of parking lots and wetlands at the sports complex. 
 Its partner in the joint venture, the Mack-Cali Realty Corporation, a major developer with headquarters in Cranford, has proposed to put up office buildings on the site, although it is not obligated to do so. 
 Mills had wanted a place in New Jersey so badly that over 10 years it had invested at least $100 million -- the exact figure is now the subject of an auditors' inquiry -- in another Meadowlands site, where it ultimately was not allowed to build. As for the sports complex site, expenses totaled more than $500 million by the beginning of this year, and, according to sports authority officials, Mills was spending about $20 million a month on construction.

Cracks Start to Show
 But as Mills was pouring money into Xanadu, the company was flying apart. Early this month, its stock was hitting a new 52-week low every day or two, sinking into the 20's after a high of $66.44 last August. It laid off about 15 percent of its staff, including some top executives, and became the subject of more than a dozen shareholder suits in which the plaintiffs include the attorneys general of at least three states. 
 Soon the company was looking for a buyer, but its finances were in such chaos -- prompting the investigations by the S.E.C. as well as its own auditors -- that its assets could hardly be priced. 
 The problem was that Mills, highly leveraged already, had been caught with too little income and too much in the pipeline. The big item in the pipeline was Xanadu -- and Mills was running out of cash for it. 
 In the reprieve disclosed last week, Mills's lenders agreed not to declare the company in default and to reopen some lines of credit, while Mills refinanced its best asset, the Sawgrass Mills mall in Sunrise, Fla. 
 That move netted $246 million for Mills, and the company said it planned to refinance two other properties.
 The waivers and credit lines expire by the end of the year, however, and the lenders -- who will be overseeing Mills's every move -- will allow only very limited borrowing until the company has a buyer or buyers lined up.
 Mills is not allowed to pay a dividend for the fourth quarter of the year, and can pay in the third quarter only if it has an agreement to sell all or most of its assets by Dec. 31. The first-quarter divided was declared last week -- but reduced by 60 percent.
 The reaction on Wall Street to Mills's announcement was mixed. While its stock ticked upward, many analysts said they were relieved only because the company was being forced to make its assets more marketable and then unload them.
 In addition to the LightstoneGroup, others who have expressed interest in Mills, according to the financial press, include the Vornado Realty Trust, the Simon Property Group, the Westfield Group and General Growth Properties.
 It was not immediately clear what effect the new financial plans would have on Xanadu, where work was slowing on the skeleton of the behemoth ''entertainment and retail center.'' 
 Mills officials in Virginia did not respond to requests for information, but Michael Turner, a spokesman for the Meadowlands project, said: ''This arrangement will provide the company with the liquidity it needs to continue pursuing some of our core development projects. This includes, certainly, Meadowlands Xanadu.'' 
 Still Mr. Turner said that he could not say how much of the funds would be available for Xanadu. 
 Mr. Goldberg also said he was relieved by the series of financial moves made by Mills because they would allow the company more time to find tenants and secure the leases required for construction financing. 
 But Mr. Goldberg said he still planned to get together with Mills executives on Wednesday to demand more information on their leasing prospects -- a point he already made in a February meeting that he described as difficult.
 Some stock analysts say the financial arrangements contribute little if anything toward the approximately $800 million -- estimates very wildly -- needed to finish Xanadu.
 ''I don't think they freed up anything,'' Mr. Vinocur, the real estate editor, said, adding that he believed Mills needed the money just to pay the first-quarter dividend. 

A Value That's Hard to Determine
 Like the value of the entire company, the amount any buyer would pay for Xanadu is hard to determine, especially since Mills needs to restate earnings for at least the last five years and to straighten out its accounting for the immensely complicated Meadowlands deal.
 Greg Andrews, an analyst with the Green Street Advisors, a research firm in Newport Beach, Calif., that has followed Mills closely, recently estimated Xanadu's value at $127 million. 
 ''How much do you want to pay for the right to build plus a parking garage?'' Mr. Andrews said. ''You can build a whole mall for $150 or $200 million.''
 Xanadu also faces competition from the sports complex's principal tenants, the Giants and Jets, whose recent agreement with the state for a new football stadium allows the teams to build more than 500,000 square feet of retail store and restaurants -- just across the road from Xanadu. 
 Still, the few tenants known to be signed up for Xanadu account for about 400,000 square feet of the 2.2 million square feet that Mills must lease, and a number of real estate experts are optimistic that the developer will be able to fill the rest.

'A Very Viable Project'
 ''I know Mills is having its problems,'' said Chuck Lanyard, a principal in the Goldstein Group, a retail brokerage firm in Glen Rock. ''But it's a very viable project.'' 
 As Mr. Lanyard put it: ''You can't beat New Jersey demographics. So many of the big retailers are coming into New Jersey because of the concentration of population and income dollars.'' 
 So far, Xanadu has leases signed by Cabela's, a sports outfitter; Muvico, a movie theater, and two or three smaller tenants. Cabela's and Muvico will each occupy 150,000 to 175,000 square feet, roughly the size of a typical Home Depot store.
 In addition, the president and executive director of the sports authority, George R. Zoffinger, said Mills was close to reaching a leasing agreement on Wannado City, an amusement center where children play-act in grown-up careers, although the company's only other project, at Sawgrass Mills in South Florida, has had financial problems. 
 Of the other entertainment and recreation attractions that Mills promised, most -- including a roller coaster and Ferris wheel, a miniature drag-racing park and a home for the Meadowlands Area YMCA -- have dropped away.

Fighting for a Ballpark
 State officials are still fighting for an indoor ski slope called the Snow Dome and a minor league ballpark. The Bergen Cliff Hawks, the team originally designated to play there, has sued Mills over its failure to offer the club a lease. 
 Mr. Goldberg and Mr. Zoffinger say they will insist on both attractions, even though the developer's agreement does not obligate Mills to build them. Mr. Goldberg said a new owner also cannot modify the agreement ''in any meaningful way'' without the authority's consent. 
 ''I'm trying to make everybody in the universe of prospective purchasers aware of that fact,'' he said. 
 For now, state officials emphasize, Mills has satisfied its obligations and made $160 million in payments for its development rights and future rent. 
 But Irwin Horowitz, general counsel of Hartz Mountain Industries, which lost out to Mills in bidding for the development rights at the site, said Mr. Goldberg and Mr. Zoffinger had consistently failed to enforce Mills's responsibilities.
 ''The first thing they should do is start acting like a sports authority, cut our losses, stop construction and try to make it a true sports venue,'' Mr. Horowitz said. ''From where I sit, it's possible. It's not possible if you keep saying, 'Mills is a good partner.' ''

Opponents File Suits
 Hartz, the biggest commercial developer and landlord in the Meadowlands, is suing Mills and the sports authority over the project, although it has failed to stop construction; Hartz does not want shoppers at Xanadu, since it has competing centers, but it does want the entertainment, and the millions of out-of-state visitors that Mills projected, because Hartz owns a number of hotels in the area. 
 Mills is also defending itself against lawsuits filed by the Sierra Club and the New Jersey Builders Association, a couple of the project's original opponents, and the company's downward spiral has energized them as well as some Bergen County Republicans, including State Senator Henry P. McNamara, who have asked Gov. Jon S. Corzine to intervene.
 Last week, State Senator Loretta Weinberg of Teaneck, a Democrat who initially supported the project despite reservations, said, ''What they promised was an entertainment destination with ancillary retail, not a mall.''
 ''I asked very specific questions of Carl Goldberg and received answers that seemed satisfactory,'' Ms. Weinberg added. ''I'm assuming that the authority then carried out what we all thought they were going to carry out.'' 

Corzine Sorting It Out
 While Mr. Corzine has generally supported the project, his administration is only now sorting through the immense deal engineered by former Gov. James E. McGreevey, who appointed Mr. Goldberg and Mr. Zoffinger and lobbied heavily on Mills's behalf. 
 Gary Rose, the chairman of the governor's Council on Economic Development and a former investment banker, has been meeting with lawyers from the governor's office and reviewing the agreement and ground leases, Anthony Coley, the governor's press secretary, said on Thursday. 
 ''These documents are a legally binding contract,'' Mr. Coley said, ''and we expect the Mills Corporation to comply with its obligations.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Mills Corporation, developer of the Xanadu project at the Meadowlands Sports Complex, has been looking for a buyer. (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Construction work on the $1.2-billion Meadowlands Xanadu project, above, and an undated rendering of the retail and entertainment complex. (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times )
George R. Zoffinger, executive director of the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, has said that he will insist that Xanadu has a minor league baseball stadium and an indoor ski slope, as the developer originally promised. (Photo by New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority)
(Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Mike Derer/Associated Press)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); NEW ISSUES (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (74%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); ETHICS (73%); WINERIES (73%); RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); BASEBALL (69%); SPORTS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION (69%) Ethics; Accounting and Accountants; Shopping Centers

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (93%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%) Meadowlands Xanadu; Mills Corp; Securities and Exchange Commission; New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority

PERSON: Laura Mansnerus

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



375 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: Newark, the Next Generation

BYLINE: By JOSH BENSON

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
WHEN Ronald Rice Jr., a candidate for Newark's city council, says that the elections in Newark on May 9 will be the most significant in a generation, he isn't just talking about the fact that there will be a new mayor for the first time in 20 years. 
 ''I think what you're seeing now is sort of the next generation shift where you're going to have us standing on the shoulders of the civil rights generation,'' he said. ''We're going to be the ones to take Newark to the next level.''
Yes, much has been made of the fact that Cory Booker -- a young Ivy League-educated reformer from Newark's suburbs -- is on the threshold of taking power in Newark, which has for a generation been an impenetrable redoubt of machine politics. 
 Eclipsed by the mayor's race, however, is the fact that a post-civil-rights generation of young leadership is coming of age, with no fewer than five scions of prominent Newark political families in the coming nonpartisan Newark elections trying to win seats on the city's municipal council.
 There is Ras Baraka, son of the former state poet laureate Amiri Baraka, who is running for re-election as an at-large candidate. Then there is John James -- the mayor's son -- locked in a tight race for an open seat in the hardscrabble South Ward with Oscar James Jr., the son of Newark's foremost grass-roots political operative.
 There is Donald Payne Jr., who hopes that the name he shares with his father, the veteran Congressman who once headed the Congressional Black Caucus, will earn enough votes for a seat. 
 And of course there is Mr. Rice Jr., a close ally of Mr. Booker whose father, Ronald L. Rice, happens to be running for mayor, too.
 The names are familiar. But if this crop of candidates is anything to go by, the council could be nearly unrecognizable.
 ''For the previous generation, there was a different take on what was necessary for Newark to come back,'' said Walter Fields, former political director of the N.A.A.C.P. ''There was a strain of black nationalism in the air. Newark's a very different place now. These people didn't come from that struggle. They have been educated far more than their parents, and many of them have been exposed to a much more diverse range of experiences than their parents have.''
 The result, Mr. Fields said, could be a very different type of governance.
 Indeed, through all the profoundly chaotic events in Newark's history -- the race riots of 1967; the emergence of crack, AIDS and organized street gangs; the rapid, uneven redevelopment of downtown -- the municipal council has hardly developed a reputation for innovation and thought-provoking debate.
 Newark's council traditionally has operated in the mayor's shadow, going back to the days of Mayor Hugh Addonizio, when City Hall was dominated by white politicians, and continuing through the tenure of Kenneth Gibson, the city's first black mayor, who was eventually indicted on bribery charges. Things were no different when Sharpe James came into power as a defiant cheerleader for a city spurned by its white suburban neighbors. The council has tended, for the most part, to reflect his sensibilities, its members influenced by the same harsh conditions, survivor's instinct and notion of racially motivated neglect that shaped the mayor's political philosophy. Whoever ends up with a spot on Newark's nine-member council will inherit an impoverished city that many residents hope is on the verge of turning a corner. 
 ''Unlike those folks who came in 40 years ago with nothing, these folks are being handed some real assets,'' Mr. Fields said. ''This city has some real assets that leadership can use to create a dynamic city in the 21st century.'' 
 Mr. Baraka, 37, who returned to Newark after graduating from Howard University in Washington and who has been critical of Mr. Booker, said that the younger candidates had the benefit of learning from the previous generation of leaders. 
 ''It's the beginning of a new era, man,'' he said. ''Young people are beginning to push for what they feel. You've got young people on both sides of what's happening here. And in the end, we need to get together and begin thinking about not making the same mistakes made by the older generation.'' 
 Even though he is an incumbent and in competition with Mr. Booker's slate of candidates, he predicted that the shared outlook of the younger contestants in the coming election would actually force them together when it's all over.
 ''I see common cause,'' he said. ''In Newark, we're the post-civil-rights generation. We grew up after King and Malcolm X and the riots in this town. These kids never saw Hugh Addonizio, they never knew what a predominantly white city council was. Their view of what's happening is different than the view of the civil rights generation. That itself gives us some kind of common ground to discuss our experiences.'' 
 John James, a 37-year-old graduate of Morehouse College in Atlanta, is tied to the legacy of the outgoing administration of his father, and he seems to be the most skeptical about this year's younger candidates and the possibility of change. 
 ''There's going to be a change of incoming class, but not all change is for the better,'' he said. ''No one argues at this point that Sharpe James isn't the biggest cheerleader for the city of Newark. He always defended the city and it's like the end of his legacy, and some of the people running now treat him like he didn't do anything.''
 If nothing else, Mr. James said, his father deserved congratulations for finishing his two decades in office without having run afoul of the law. ''Addonizio got convicted, Gibson got indicted,'' he said. ''This is the first mayor you had who legitimately did all he could to move Newark forward. Give the guy his credit.''
 But Mr. Rice Jr., 38, who has been a close associate of Mr. James, insisted that Newark residents were desperate for a change. 
 ''Everywhere we go, people want change,'' he said. ''They want qualified change that's going to work, but everywhere we go they're saying, 'It's just time for you young people to get a chance.' One person I spoke to at his door said: 'Even if you mess up, we got to let you all mess up. Because they all had a chance.' ''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor Sharpe James, inset above, has decided not seek re-election, but his son, John, above, looks to carry on the family trade by running for city council. Ron Rice Jr., left, is running for the council, and his father, Ronald L. Rice, inset far left, is in the race for mayor. (Photos by Committee to Elect J. Sharpe James [above] and Associated Press [inset])
 (Photos by Timothy Ivy for The New York Times [above] and Keith Myers/The New York Times [inset])

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CITIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CAUCUSES (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); RIOTS (60%); GANGS (60%) Politics and Government; Elections; City Councils; Blacks

PERSON: DONALD M PAYNE (71%) ras baraka; John James; donald jr payne; Ronald Jr Rice; Josh Benson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Newark (NJ); Newark (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



376 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Corzine's Embrace of Bryant Reeks of Politics as Usual

BYLINE: By Richard G. Jones. 
Richard G. Jones reports from Trenton for The New York Times.

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
For someone who came to the State House three months ago professing a wholesome ignorance of the insular, back-scratching, say-one-thing-do-another culture of Trenton, Gov. Jon S. Corzine is suddenly vulnerable to the suggestion that he is a quick study.
 For starters, there was his campaign pledge to right New Jersey's listing fiscal ship with equal parts audacity and innovation. Yet in February, when asked to solve his first financial crisis -- the pending insolvency of the Transportation Trust Fund -- Mr. Corzine reached deep into the bag of stale, and some would say spiritless, State House solutions. 
The governor chose to refinance a chunk of the fund's debt to keep it afloat instead of taking a politically riskier, but perhaps more fiscally prudent, step like raising the state's gasoline tax.
 And while many gave Mr. Corzine deserved credit for his gutsy suggestion in last month's budget address that New Jersey raise its sales tax by 1 percent to help close a $4.5-billion budget deficit, the governor also unfurled a raft of revenue-generating proposals that his own treasurer acknowledged were largely recycled.
 After leaning on his Wall Street credentials through much of the gubernatorial campaign, Mr. Corzine did little to push the boundaries of fiscal thinking beyond, say, raising the state's cigarette tax, which has already been tried three times in the last six years.
 Now, after promising what amounted to zero tolerance for ethical lapses under the State House dome, Mr. Corzine last week offered up a stirring endorsement of State Senator Wayne R. Bryant, the influential Camden County Democrat who is apparently the subject of a federal investigation into whether he improperly steered millions of dollars in state grants to the scandal-tainted University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey for a more-than-modest fee.
 Certainly, Mr. Bryant deserves the benefit of a presumption of innocence. But to some, Mr. Corzine's almost gushing endorsement of Mr. Bryant made the governor seem like another in the long line of officeholders who were apologists for their political allies. Anthony Coley, the governor's press secretary, put it this way: ''If ever there was an advocate for his constituents, Senator Bryant is it. Accusations are not convictions.''
 Yet some observers saw it as something else: a continuing part of Mr. Corzine's Trenton education. 
 ''It really is the difference between political rhetoric and political reality,'' said Dr. Joseph R. Marbach, a political scientist at Seton Hall University. ''Senator Bryant and certainly members of his family have benefited from government employment, and those are the kinds of perks that the governor said he was against.''
 At first glance, the pairing of Senator Bryant and Governor Corzine seems an odd one. In January, shortly after an inauguration speech in which Mr. Corzine essentially called out those with questionable ties in government, Mr. Bryant was one of the legislators -- State Senator Sharpe James, who also is the mayor of Newark, was another -- who questioned the governor's authority to serve as an arbiter of corrupt politicians.
 But when viewed from Mr. Corzine's perspective, wanting to forge a closer relationship with Mr. Bryant makes sense, particularly when the governor's $30.9-billion budget must face the scrutiny of the Senate Budget and Appropriations Committee, which Mr. Bryant leads.
 ''Ultimately, Corzine's budget has to go through Bryant,'' Dr. Marbach said. ''So what the governor has to do is smooth some of the feathers that were ruffled by his remarks.''
 And Mr. Corzine's support of Mr. Bryant also may work on several other levels. The governor certainly earned points with his fellow Democrats, who have similarly locked arms around Mr. Bryant.
 ''The only people who have the right to pass judgment on him are the voters in his district,'' Assemblyman Joseph Cryan, the new chairman of the state Democratic Party, said of Mr. Bryant in an interview last week. ''And the last time I checked, they elected him by a margin of 2 to 1.''
 Oddly enough, Mr. Corzine took the opposite approach with Mr. Cryan earlier this year when the assemblyman was accused of not reporting a cash contribution of $2,000. The charge was later found not to be credible, but it almost derailed Mr. Cryan's appointment as party chairman while he twisted in the wind for two weeks. 
 Besides earning chits with important party mates like Mr. Bryant, Mr. Corzine also may be driven by less Machiavellian motives. In the waning days of last year's bitterly fought governor's race, Mr. Corzine was dogged by innuendo about his personal life. So perhaps Mr. Corzine's endorsement of Mr. Bryant stems in part from a certain sensitivity about the perils of unproven accusations.
 Yet much else is known about Mr. Bryant, who at times in his long legislative career has held as many as four government jobs simultaneously, has five relatives on the public payroll and is a partner in a law firm that does work for the state.
 Whatever forces drove Mr. Corzine to throw his support behind Mr. Bryant so quickly, Republicans have seized on the moment to question the governor's credibility on the issue of ethics in state government.
 It is now up to the governor to define his own fine line separating principled pragmatism from politics as usual without smudging it.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard G. Jones

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); ETHICS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); GRANTS & GIFTS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); SALES TAX (73%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); TAX INCREASES (68%); GASOLINE (68%); FUEL TAX (68%); DENTISTRY (67%); SCANDALS (64%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (62%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (50%) Ethics; Colleges and Universities; Politics and Government 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MEDICINE & DENTISTRY OF NEW JERSEY (65%)

ORGANIZATION: University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey

PERSON: JON CORZINE (92%) Jon S (Gov) Corzine; Wayne (Sen) Bryant; Richard G Jones

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



377 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: Going After Migrants, but Not Employers

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
AS they fanned into the Vidalia onion fields of Georgia, the 45 federal agents were doing exactly what they thought they were supposed to do. It was 1998, and they had just arrested 21 illegal immigrant farm workers and were about to round up hundreds more. 
 But the raid met with a stinging rebuke from what might have seemed a surprising source: two powerful Republicans from Georgia's Congressional delegation. 
Saxby Chambliss, then a representative and now a senator, accused immigration officials of using ''bullying tactics,'' while Senator Paul Coverdell denounced ''a moonshine raid'' against ''honest farmers who are simply trying to get their products from the field to the marketplace.'' The Immigration and Naturalization Service backed down, granting temporary amnesty to illegal onion pickers in 19 Georgia counties.
 Today, Mr. Chambliss, as the chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, is leading efforts to pass tougher measures than many of his Senate colleagues favor to rein in illegal immigration. 
 So why did he fight a crackdown in his own backyard? Asserting that he has always supported enforcement against employers, Mr. Chambliss said he protested the 1998 raid because he considered it too heavy-handed, with agents wearing camouflage and waving .357's. Moreover, he said, arresting immigrants in a few onion fields would result in other immigrants replacing them and would do nothing to deter the flow.
 ''Going into one field or plant and arresting 30 or 40 people is not a solution to the problem,'' Mr. Chambliss said. 
 But Doris Meissner, who was immigration commissioner under President Bill Clinton, had a different explanation: members of Congress, particularly Republicans, do not want to antagonize business. 
 ''There was hypocrisy,'' Ms. Meissner said. ''On one hand, you say you want enforcement, and then you see it's not so easy to live with the consequences in your own district.''
 Indeed, the lack of vigorous enforcement against employers who hire illegal workers has been widely viewed as the main reason that 850,000 immigrants cross the border illegally each year. Facing little in the way of penalties, employers feel few qualms about hiring them for meatpacking, construction, agriculture and janitorial work. 
 ''You had a lack of political will to carry out the enforcement component, and that was in part because of the demands of certain interests to enjoy cheap foreign labor,'' said Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican who has long supported strict limits on immigration. ''We are paying the price today for a lack of enforcement for the last 20 years.'' 
 But is the political climate finally ripe for more vigorous work-site enforcement? Though the Senate did not pass a bill before its recess, and though whatever bill it approves will differ from the tough legislation passed by the House, both houses are more in sync on workplace enforcement. Both would stiffen fines on employers who hire illegal immigrants, and the Bush administration has recommended increasing the number of work-site investigators.
 The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 did little to prevent employers from hiring illegal immigrants. As a result many foreigners knew that if they sneaked across the border, jobs would be waiting for them. All they needed was a forged green card.
 The 1986 act set fines up to $11,000 for hiring illegal workers. But the employer penalties had a fatal weakness: employers could be fined only if the government found that they knowingly hired someone illegally. To elude penalties, employers need only assert a good-faith belief that the work documents immigrants showed them were legitimate. Employers often insisted that they could not tell whether the papers were false.
 ''Employer sanctions can be a very efficient tool if enforced,'' said George Borjas, an economics professor at Harvard University. ''The problem is the way the law reads, it's basically a joke. It basically gives employers a huge loophole to walk through.''
 Not only business but also organized labor opposed raids like those in Georgia, asserting that employers often invited in federal agents when workers wanted to unionize. ''It's not fair to punish employers when it's often impossible for them to tell whether the documents a worker shows them are real or counterfeit,'' said John W. Wilhelm, president of the hospitality division of Unite Here, a union representing hotel, restaurant and apparel workers. 
 The number of federal immigration agents who focus on work-site enforcement plunged to 65 nationwide in 2004, from 240 in 1999, according to the Government Accountability Office. Moreover, the government reduced the number of notices of intent to fine employers who hired illegal immigrants to just 3 in 2004 from 417 in 1999. 
 But recently the agency responsible for policing workplaces, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, has pursued more criminal actions against employers. Last year, its work-site efforts resulted in 140 indictments, 127 convictions and 165 criminal arrests on top of 980 civil arrests.
 Both the Senate compromise and the House bill call for a new nationwide electronic verification system. Whenever they hire workers, employers would be required to e-mail the government to find out whether the workers' Social Security numbers are valid. If a worker's number is not valid according to a government database, the employer would not hire that worker, although it might be hard to identify workers who use stolen Social Security numbers. 
 Some see other problems. Immigration officials acknowledge gaps in the databases, and they might be overwhelmed by having to check millions of names each year. 
 With many businesses unhappy about the current muddle, the United States Chamber of Commerce supports an electronic verification program. ''We recognize that the current system is subject to abuse with fraudulent documentation,'' said Randel Johnson, the chamber's vice president for labor, immigration and employee benefits. 
 Many lawmakers want to require a fraud-proof national ID card -- perhaps a new Social Security card with a photo and fingerprint for all citizens and legal immigrants. 
 ''We're trying to replace a nudge-nudge, wink-wink system of unrealistic laws that don't get enforced with realistic laws that can be enforced,'' said Tamar Jacoby, an immigration expert with the Manhattan Institute. ''It's like trying to go from Prohibition to a system of liquor licenses.''


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Checking Employers''Under the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the number of federal investigations aimed at employers who may have hired illegal immigrants fell 69 percent between 1992 and 2003. These figures include both completed criminal investigations and spot checks of businesses.In 2003, United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement took over, initiating only criminal investigations.Graph tracks number of federal investigations aimed at employers who may have hired illegal immigrants since 1992.1992: 7,0532003: 2,1942005: 511(Source by Department of Homeland Security)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); FARM LABOR (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); REFUGEES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MIGRANT WORKERS (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); NEWS BRIEFS (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); AMNESTY (68%); US PRESIDENTS (63%) Immigration and Refugees; Labor; Illegal Immigrants; Law and Legislation; Migrant Labor; Foreign Labor; Immigration and Refugees

ORGANIZATION: US IMMIGRATION & CUSTOMS ENFORCEMENT (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (59%) Immigration and Naturalization Service

PERSON: SAXBY CHAMBLISS (79%); BILL CLINTON (57%); LAMAR SMITH (56%) Steven Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (79%) Mexico; United States

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



378 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: New Brooklyn Terminal Shows It's Fit for Queen

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
The county of kings received a new queen yesterday.
 During the early morning hours, the Queen Mary 2, the largest passenger liner ever built, nosed through the Verrazano Narrows and docked at the new Brooklyn Cruise Terminal in Red Hook, shrouded in mist so thick that it obscured Governors Island nearby.
It was the final stop on a 38-day cruise that the ship began in Los Angeles in March, snaking down to South America and around Cape Horn before cruising back north with about 2,600 passengers who the city hopes will be the first of about 200,000 arrivals and departures at the new terminal over the next year. 
 By 10 a.m., the fog had thinned out, the sun shone brightly, and several dozen politicians, community leaders and cruise line executives stood in the harbor breeze to congratulate one another on the terminal's official opening. 
 ''I hate to rush this press conference, actually, but I heard the shuffleboard tournament starts at 11, and Marty thinks that he can take me,'' said Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, referring to the Brooklyn borough president, Marty Markowitz. ''Dream on, Markowitz.''
 Heralding the terminal, he said, ''The people of New York conceived the idea, secured the funding, kicked off construction and today we celebrate its grand opening.'' 
 Weighing more than 150,000 tons, the Queen Mary 2 is essentially an enormous floating luxury hotel, with plush carpeting, formal dining and five duplex apartments among its 1,300 passenger rooms. It is 23 stories high and 1,132 feet long, the equivalent of about four football fields, 36 London buses or an extremely long lunch buffet. 
 The new Brooklyn terminal was built to match, with a cavernous waiting room and check-in area, gangways the size of constructions cranes and acres upon acres of blacktopped parking lot. Much of it was covered yesterday with a fleet of limousines and taxis, ranked with military precision to whisk the ship's passengers away to New York's airports and tourist destinations. 
 Hundreds of Brooklynites gathered at the edges of the fenced-in port to take in the site of the ship, and a few managed to sneak past the barricade. 
 ''It woke us up this morning, so we figured we needed to come see it,'' said Nick Elezovic, 35, who was sleeping in Carroll Gardens when the ship blew its horns as it arrived. He brought his friend, Susan Johnson 27, and her parents -- Floridians in town for Easter -- to watch from the dock.
 ''It's gigantic,'' he said of the ship.
 Yesterday's ceremony was the culmination of a two-year renovation of Pier 12, a formerly dilapidated Red Hook berth not far from docks where longshoreman still unload heavy goods from Brooklyn's last remaining container-ship port. 
 Under an agreement signed in 2004 with the Carnival and Norwegian Cruise lines, the city spent $52 million building the 182,000-square-foot terminal, constructing new mooring points and deepening the berth. (Mr. Markowitz and the federal government chipped in a few million, too.) 
 In return, the cruise lines will pay the city at least $200 million in port charges through 2017 and guarantee that at least 13 million passengers will arrive or depart in their ships at the city's terminals during those years. 
 The Red Hook terminal is now the largest cruise ship facility in New York City, at least until renovations are completed on the Manhattan terminal, at West 46th Street. The Red Hook terminal is the first cruise port in the city that is long enough and deep enough for the extra-large ships -- many of them larger than aircraft carriers -- which account for an ever-growing share of the worldwide cruise business. 
 According to the city's Economic Development Corporation, the Brooklyn terminal will accommodate 192,000 passengers from 38 ships in its first year of operation, eventually accounting for about one-fifth of the roughly one million passengers who will pass through New York City this year. Within five years, the corporation expects the industry to generate $900 million per year in economic activity, up from $600 million in 2004.
 The new terminal also marks another step in the Brooklyn waterfront's slow conversion from heavy industry to a mix of parks, restaurants and condominium buildings.
 ''What's exciting is that it's the first substantial investment on these piers in 50 years -- and it's only the beginning,'' said Andrew Brent, a spokesman for the development corporation. Six nearby piers are already scheduled for development as part of the future Brooklyn Bridge Park, which will take up a stretch of land from Atlantic Avenue to just past the Manhattan Bridge.
 The city is also trying to take over another nearby portion of the waterfront, one currently occupied by American Stevedoring, a container port operator that has survived -- and even thrived -- as most of its competitors have migrated across the harbor to New Jersey.
 ''Cruise and containers can happily coexist,'' said Matt Yates, a spokesman for the company. ''The container port is a vibrant and essential component of Brooklyn's varied waterfront. By bringing both aesthetics and billions of dollars in economic activity, it provides Brooklyn with a worthwhile use for her storied piers, and brings much-needed wealth to our local economy.''
 But yesterday, at least, the Queen Mary 2 brooked no rivals. At about quarter past five, just after a laggard crew member scurried aboard with her bags, the ship sounded three blasts on its horn, and began gliding back to sea, the strains of ''New York, New York'' wafting across the stern.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Carol Marlow, president of the Cunard Line, welcomed passengers of the Queen Mary 2 before the ship sailed away. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)
(Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)
(Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)
 Residents came out yesterday to the Brooklyn Cruise Terminal in Redhook to see the Queen Mary 2 make its first visit to the renovated facility. (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)Map of Brooklyn highlighting Brooklyn Cruise Terminal: The city spent two years and $52 million to renovate Pier 12.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUISES (93%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (92%); MAYORS (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (89%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (77%); EASTER SEASON (76%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (72%); BUILDING RENOVATION (70%); TOURNAMENTS (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (62%); PRESS CONFERENCES (53%); TOURISM (50%) Ships and Shipping ; Queen Mary 2 (Ship); Brooklyn Cruise Terminal; Cruises; Ports; Ships and Shipping 

ORGANIZATION: Carnival Cruise Lines; Norwegian Cruise Line

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (85%); RICK PERRY (71%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Nicholas Confessore

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH AMERICA (88%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



379 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: With Tax Break Expired, Middle Class Faces a Greater Burden for 2006

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON; Carl Hulse contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
As millions of Americans rush to meet the Monday deadline for reporting how much tax they owe on last year's income, a stealth tax increase has begun eating into the 2006 income of nearly 19 million households.
 Unless Congress takes action, one in four families with children -- up from one in 22 last year -- will owe up to $3,640 in additional federal income tax come next April.
 Few of them realize that their taxes have increased, because Congress has not voted to raise taxes. Instead, Congress let a tax break expire. That break limited the alternative minimum tax, which takes back part of the tax cuts sponsored by President Bush. 
 Mr. Bush has asked Congress to temporarily restore the tax break, known as the A.M.T. patch. He has also asked Congress to extend another break that lowered the tax rate on most investment income to 15 percent. 
 Leading Republicans and Democrats agree that there is simply not enough money to do both. Congress was unable to reach an agreement on tax breaks before adjourning for vacation earlier this month.
 The expiration of the A.M.T. patch and the tax break for investment income almost balance each other out this year, according to the Tax Policy Center, a nonprofit organization whose computer model of the tax system has been deemed reasonable and reliable by the Bush administration. The impact will be felt primarily among taxpayers of two different income levels. 
 The A.M.T. will cost Americans who earn $50,000 to $200,000 nearly $13 billion more next April. That is about how much people who earn more than $1 million will save because of the break on investment income like dividends and capital gains. Both figures were provided by the Tax Policy Center, which is a joint project of the Brookings Institution and the Urban Institute.
 Taking action on either measure will require more government borrowing, adding to the federal budget deficit, which is projected to reach $423 billion this year. 
 The question of how to deal with the alternative minimum tax is central to the negotiations between the House and the Senate over a $70 billion package of tax cuts. Republicans had hoped to reach an agreement before the Easter recess and reap some political benefit at tax time. But one of the sticking points was the A.M.T. patch. 
 House negotiators proposed extending the tax break, but Senator Charles E. Grassley, an Iowa Republican and chairman of the Finance Committee, pushed for a more generous plan that would also expand it and give more relief to middle-class taxpayers. Negotiations are expected to resume when Congress returns later this month, and Republicans say they are determined to reach a deal in this election year. 
 Those favoring an extension of the investment tax break, including House Republican leaders, say it encourages investment and leads to more jobs. Two recent studies by the Congressional Research Service, which examines issues for Congress, have raised the possibility of unintended and perverse effects, such as reducing savings and creating more jobs offshore.
 Proponents of lower tax rates on investment income also warn that ending the break will hurt stock prices. A number of economists have cast doubt on this assertion.
 Representative Dave Camp, a Michigan Republican who was chosen by his party to advocate for extending the investment tax break, pointed out that it affected more people than the increase in the alternative minimum tax. About 30 million taxpayers get dividends, while nearly 19 million are expected to pay the A.M.T. on 2006 income. 
 But many of the dividend checks are quite small. The investment tax savings in 2006 will be heavily concentrated on about 234,000 households, generally headed by someone 50 or older, with an average income of $2.6 million, more than most Americans earn in a lifetime. By comparison, most of the increase in the alternative tax is being paid by about 12 million families with children.
 Leonard Burman, a co-director of the Tax Policy Center, said he had not noticed the similarity in the amount that the middle class will pay and that the rich will save until The New York Times sent him a comparison of the separate estimates produced by the center. 
 Mr. Burman said the comparison ''puts in context claims made by some that this is a tug of war between'' what Mr. Bush has dubbed the haves and the have-mores.
 He added that once Americans realized their taxes had increased, he expected more pressure on Congress to restore the A.M.T. patch.
 Tom Minnery, vice president of public policy for Focus on the Family, a politically influential Christian ministry based in Colorado Springs, said his organization was just beginning to study the effective taxes on families.
 ''This is a new one on the horizon, and I am very concerned about it,'' Mr. Minnery said of the A.M.T. increase, adding that ''any policy that punishes the nuclear family is foolish.'' 
 The tax break that expired at the end of 2005 limited the alternative minimum tax to 3.6 million taxpayers, of which 2.1 million were families with children.
 This year 18.9 million taxpayers are facing the alternative levy, with 11.8 million representing families with children. Without Congressional action, those affected will pay $26.6 billion more in federal income taxes for this year. Almost the same amount, $24.1 billion, will be saved by all investors, the Tax Policy Center estimated. Actual savings for investors are likely to be higher if recent stock market growth continues.
 The alternative tax was originally adopted in 1969 to ensure that people who earned the equivalent of more than $1 million in today's dollars did not live tax free. It has not been fully adjusted for inflation and was not integrated into the Bush tax cuts. In addition, Congress in 1986 made basic changes in what kind of deductions are counted in determining whether one has to pay the alternative levy, causing it to become a tax on the middle class.
 In the beginning it took away exotic breaks to high-income taxpayers who paid little or no tax. Now it denies people exemptions for themselves and their children and deductions for state income taxes and local property taxes.
 Just one-tenth of 1 percent of the increased alternative tax is being paid this year by those making $1 million or more, the Tax Policy Center estimates, even though this is the only group affected by the original version of the levy.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Shifting Tax Burdens''Congress is debating whether to restore a patch to the alternative minimum tax that expired at the end of last year or to extend tax cuts on most investment income past 2008.INCOME: Under $10,000Average alternative minimum tax increase for 2006: Average$0 investment income tax savings for 2006*: INCOME$0: $10,000 to $20,000Average alternative minimum tax increase for 2006: Average$0 investment income tax savings for 2006*: INCOME$1: $20,000 to $30,000Average alternative minimum tax increase for 2006: Average$0 investment income tax savings for 2006*: INCOME$5: $30,000 to $40,000Average alternative minimum tax increase for 2006: Average$1 investment income tax savings for 2006*: INCOME$9: $40,000 to $50,000Average alternative minimum tax increase for 2006: Average$7 investment income tax savings for 2006*: INCOME$22: $50,000 to $75,000Average alternative minimum tax increase for 2006: Average$30 investment income tax savings for 2006*: INCOME$43: $75,000 to $100,000Average alternative minimum tax increase for 2006: Average$212 investment income tax savings for 2006*: INCOME$77: $100,000 to $200,000Average alternative minimum tax increase for 2006: Average$937 investment income tax savings for 2006*: INCOME$206: $200,000 to $500,000Average alternative minimum tax increase for 2006: $2,218Average investment income tax savings for 2006*: INCOME$996: $200,000 to $1,000,000Average alternative minimum tax increase for 2006: Average$275 investment income tax savings for 2006*: $3,627INCOME: More than $1 millionAverage alternative minimum tax increase for 2006: Average$98 investment income tax savings for 2006*: $37,962TOTAL INCREASE:Average alternative minimum tax increase for 2006: $26.6 billionAverage investment income tax savings for 2006*: $24.1 billion* Based on 2005 incomes and stock market levels(Source by Tax Policy Center)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX LAW (92%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); FAMILY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); INCOME TAX (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); EASTER SEASON (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) Taxation; Alternative Minimum Tax; Taxation

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (57%) David Cay Johnston; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



380 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Bridgeport Journal; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: A Long-Struggling City Happily Rediscovers a River and Seeks to Renew a Waterfront

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: BRIDGEPORT, Conn., April 12 

 BODY:
Several centuries back, before this city rose and fell and then began its endless effort to rise again, before jobs and money and the middle class vanished and before the waterfront was walled off by industry and Interstate 95, a river ran unbroken from the valley to the sea. 
 It was the Pequonnock River, and it is still there, still running, if not unbroken. It flows all but unnoticed in places, behind rotted warehouses, around withered pilings and underneath rumbling roadways. In some spots it is dammed to a near standstill. Yet its essential course, connecting the uplands of the Pequonnock River Valley to Long Island Sound, remains this city's creaking spine. 
Now, at its mouth and inland where it bends toward the city limits, the river also connects two of the newest of those endless efforts to make Bridgeport rise again. 
 One would be grand and transformative, a 52-acre project to build waterfront residential high-rise buildings and stores on a peninsula called Steel Point, directly south of I-95. Development of the site has been discussed for more than a decade, but supporters of the current project, who include Gov. M. Jodi Rell, say it now has renewed momentum, and they expect a groundbreaking this summer, thanks to political will and fresh financing toward its cost of more than $1 billion.
 Upriver, a second project for restoring life to the Pequonnock may be less ambitious, but it is farther along. On Wednesday, as part of a new program to encourage urban fishing, more than a dozen schoolchildren helped workers from the state's Department of Environmental Protection stock about 1,000 brook, brown and rainbow trout in the river where it is dammed at Bunnells Pond. The pond is a concrete-banked body of water between a four-lane highway and a sprawling park designed by the landscape architect Frederick Law Olmsted that is now home to the Beardsley Zoo.
 ''It's surprising how many things live in that body of water,'' said Gregg Dancho, director of the zoo, as white noise from Route 8, the highway, hummed in the same big breeze that lofted the ring-billed gulls coasting and yawing overhead. ''You wish the highway wasn't there, but there's nothing you can do about that.''
 Reconnecting residents to the rivers that run through some of the rustier sections of America's cities is hardly a new endeavor. Recapturing waterfronts for residential use, from Cleveland to Miami to New York City, has for decades been a focus of ''in-fill'' development, converting decayed old urban sites for new uses. 
 But in Connecticut, where glacier-made valleys and streams still shape transportation and development patterns, Bridgeport missed out on the momentum.
 ''Now that has changed,'' said Michael P. Nidoh, director of planning for the city. ''You can't find land on the East Coast like we have in Bridgeport.''
 Daniel Pfeffer, president of Midtown Equities in New York, the lead developer of the Steel Point project as well as major projects in Miami and Baltimore, said: ''Bridgeport's time has come. This is what we specialize in, taking challenging urban in-fill projects. I say 'challenging' because up until recently, people have tried and people have failed.''
 Something of an Industrial Age aberration in suburban Fairfield County, one of the nation's wealthiest regions, Bridgeport was on the brink of bankruptcy early in the 1990's. Yet its boosters -- a thriving species that needs no supplemental stocking -- have been declaring the city in renaissance since before Joseph P. Ganim went to prison in 2003 after a dozen years as mayor. He is serving a nine-year sentence for taking kickbacks from contractors, including some who were involved in the city's revitalization efforts.
 Even as the city, an 80-minute train ride from Manhattan, has struggled with corruption, crime and unemployment, it also has gained a new stadium for its minor league baseball team, the Bridgeport Bluefish, and a new hockey arena, both with significant aid from the state. Downtown, at least three residential projects are in various stages of development, including the conversion of the old City Trust bank building on Main Street. 
 A transportation center under construction will link the train service on Metro-North's New Haven Line with local buses and the ferry to Port Jefferson, N.Y. A planned trolley system across the Pequonnock to the new Steel Point development, where the river meets Bridgeport Harbor, would also be linked. 
 Last month, Mrs. Rell announced $8.5 million in new state aid to help the city buy some of the final parcels of land for Steel Point. She also promised $750,000 to help dredge the harbor to increase container shipping.
 Edward Lavernoich, who is managing the project for the city, said that the city and state have invested almost $50 million, including the money Mrs. Rell announced last month, largely to acquire property and do environmental cleanup. He said government investment would rise to as much as $290 million of the overall cost of $1 billion or more. Land cleared long ago for the Steel Point project now grows weeds. It has been years since the state and the city paid to relocate residents and businesses from the site, and some questioned whether the project would ever go forward. Dreams of an Indian casino in the area have been abandoned, and property disputes still loom. But Mr. Pfeffer, the current developer, said his project, which would also include a marina and a public promenade, will indeed be built.
 Up at Bunnells Pond on Wednesday, Luis Rivera wandered over to watch the pond being stocked with the help of the schoolchildren, students at the Barnum School, in advance of the beginning of trout-fishing season, which was yesterday.
 The pond was drained for cleaning a few years ago and bounced back. It now provides spawning grounds for alewife and herring that make their way up the Pequonnock with the help of a fish ladder built over one dam by biologists with the Department of Environmental Protection.
 With binoculars around his neck, Mr. Rivera recalled fishing the Pequonnock in the 1980's as a young man but said he had fished only in the Sound since then. This spring, however, he figured the fishing would be pretty good in this part of the river.
 ''It may be worth it to buy a $20 license,'' Mr. Rivera said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Steel Point, near Interstate 95 in Bridgeport, is the site of planned stores and high-rise condominiums. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)Map of Bridgeport, Connecticut, highlighting Steel Point development: Two projects at different ends of Bridgeport both involve the river.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIVERS (89%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); CHILDREN (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (69%); FISHES (69%); SPORT FISHING (69%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (64%) Area Planning and Renewal; Fish and Other Marine Life; Fishing, Sport

PERSON: M JODI RELL (70%) M Jodi (Gov) Rell; William Yardley

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Bridgeport (Conn); Pequonnock River

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



381 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; WORTH NOTING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: Turning to Bon Jovi To Lure Tourists

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
It may not be ''Born to Run,'' but there's another song that people can hum when thinking about New Jersey: ''Who Says You Can't Go Home,'' a new single from another New Jersey institution, Bon Jovi. 
 At a tourism conference last week in Atlantic City, Virginia S. Bauer, chief executive and secretary of the state's Economic Growth and Tourism Commission, announced that the band (and its famous front man, Jon Bon Jovi, who lives in Middletown) had agreed to allow the state to use the song for new television commercials to promote tourism.
''Even though they've traveled the world, Bon Jovi's unabashed affection for their home state shines through in the song,'' Mrs. Bauer said in a statement.
 The campaign comes at a time when tourism is actually doing quite well. Last year, tourist expenditures rose by 12.5 percent to $36.3 billion, while the number of visitors grew 9 percent to 72.2 million. DAVID W. CHEN


GRAPHIC: Photo: When Jon Bon Jovi and the rest of his group sing, will potential visitors to New Jersey listen? (Photo by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MUSIC (90%); TOURISM (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (88%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (88%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (87%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (87%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (68%); EXECUTIVES (56%) Music; Travel and Vacations; Advertising and Marketing

ORGANIZATION: Bon Jovi (Music Group)

PERSON: JON BON JOVI (93%) Jon Bon Jovi; Virginia S Bauer; David W Chen

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



382 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Corzine's Bad-News Budget

 BODY:
As New Jersey's politicians and citizens weigh in on Gov. Jon Corzine's $30.9 billion budget, there is at least one area of consensus: the new governor has inherited a financial mess of the first order. At a time when neighboring states are dividing up budget surpluses, New Jersey is confronted with a budget deficit of more than $4 billion. That deficit is only the latest in a continuing series of budget crises in the Garden State. 
 So the governor, a relative newcomer to Trenton after five years in the United States Senate, gets a bit of a pass as he explains his decisions in town meetings throughout the state. Nobody is blaming him for today's red ink and yesterday's dysfunctional budgeting. Mr. Corzine has tried to spread the pain as evenly as possible. But history suggests that the political classes will find a way to avoid being hurt. 
His proposed solutions seem, in general, to be both tough and smart. New Jersey is not going to get out of this mess without some kind of tax hike and unpleasant budget cuts. Mr. Corzine also appears determined to put an end to years of gimmickry, creative accounting and other budgetary dodges that have put the state in this fix. Anything less, he says, is to invite a financial catastrophe.
 Right now, Republicans are assailing his plans to raise the state sales tax from 6 cents to 7 cents, and to extend it to some services not currently covered. Students in public universities and colleges have rallied against the governor's $169 million cut for higher education. Hospitals are fighting bitterly against a proposed monthly fee of $620 per bed. Education activists are protesting Mr. Corzine's proposal to freeze financing for poor school districts. Even some of Mr. Corzine's Democrats are acting a little nervous, mostly over the proposed sales tax hike. 
 It will require more than just Mr. Corzine's undeniable business acumen to sell this budget to skeptical lawmakers and cynical taxpayers. New Jersey legislators embrace the Scarlett O'Hara method of fiscal policy: They won't think about deficits today. They'll think about them tomorrow. They are bound to regard Mr. Corzine as just another panic-stricken newcomer who doesn't understand that this crisis will pass. They always do. 
 As Mr. Corzine surely knows, mere assurances of future calamity will do little to round up the 21 votes he needs to win passage in the State Senate, where Democrats outnumber Republicans by only 22 to 18. (Passage in the Assembly is less of a problem thanks to stronger Democratic control.) The governor will have to be forceful, shrewd and perhaps more confrontational than he has ever been before.
 If he can set the right tone, he has a compelling case to make. 
 The governor's sales tax increase is an appropriate response to the crisis. While it will hurt low-income earners more than the rich, necessities like clothing and food remain exempt, and there will be no increase in the special 3 percent sales tax charged in urban enterprise zones near less-affluent areas.
 Extending sales taxes to services like limousine rides, landscaping, health spas and tattoo parlors simply reflects the reality of New Jersey's 21st-century service economy. Why should the purchase of these services be exempt from sales tax?
 The proposed hospital bed fee has drawn the ire of the state's health care industry, and opponents say the fee could lead to a wave of hospital closings throughout the state. But New Jersey is going to have to do something to get control of its burgeoning health care costs. Under the Corzine plan, half the money earned from the fee would go into the state's general fund, with the other half used to obtain federal matching grants to cover Medicaid costs. Legislators who don't like it should be challenged to come up with other ways to provide decent health care for the state's needy without bankrupting the treasury.
 The governor's proposal to freeze financing for the 31 so-called Abbott school districts bumps up against court-imposed spending mandates. In its landmark Abbott v. Burke decision, the State Supreme Court required Trenton to increase spending in districts serving underprivileged students, most of them in the state's inner cities. Mr. Corzine argues that the Abbott districts, which receive about $4.1 billion in annual state aid -- half of all school spending -- must be held more accountable. That judgment may be left to the courts, but Mr. Corzine's demand for accountability is hardly unreasonable.
 Taxpayers have good reason to wonder if Trenton's cozy deal making and corruption will doom any attempt to reform the state's finances. To his credit, Mr. Corzine seems aware of the connection between New Jersey's fiscal crisis and the state's political culture. He clearly wants to change business as usual. Now we will have to see if he can.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); GOVERNORS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SALES TAX (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (86%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ACCOUNTING (51%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Editorials

PERSON: JON CORZINE (92%) Jon S (Gov) Corzine

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



383 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk; NOTICED; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: China's President Ties the Score for Yale

BYLINE: By JAN ELLEN SPIEGEL

 BODY:
YALE UNIVERSITY has had many firsts in its long history. And when it may seem the university ought to be running out of them, along comes another. On Friday, for the first time in its 305 years, Yale will play host to a president of China. 
 President Hu Jintao will make a short visit -- a couple of hours start to finish -- to the New Haven campus, giving what Yale has been told will be a major policy address. It will be an invitation-only event.
The trip is part of a rescheduled visit to the United States, originally planned for last summer but postponed in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. 
 Richard Levin, the president of Yale, extended the invitation to Mr. Hu in 2002 when he was named general secretary of the Communist Party, and his ascendancy to the presidency seemed assured.
 He is only the second Chinese president to visit an American university. His predecessor, Jiang Zemin, spoke at Harvard in 1997.
 ''Part of the impetus comes from the fact that the last president went to the other place,'' Mr. Levin said, joking.
 Mr. Levin has made the internationalization of Yale a priority of his tenure, and he has focused especially on China, a nation he said was evolving economically and politically into what is likely to be one of the two great powers of the 21st century. 
 For that reason, interactions such as President Hu's visit are imperative for the educational process, Mr. Levin said in an interview, even when they come with a great deal of political baggage.
 ''China at this stage clearly is a long way from what Americans would regard as a democratically governed nation,'' Mr. Levin said. ''It is evolving very gradually but very deliberately towards a wider rule of law. An educational institution like Yale, and in particular Yale Law School, can play a role in China's evolution.''
 That said, President Hu can also expect protesters, who will include those organized by the university-based Social Justice Network. 
 The group is not against the visit, but is using it as an opportunity to highlight concerns over a litany of issues from China's human rights and labor violations to its environmental policies.
 ''I would like to hear President Levin commit to advocating for improvement of human rights and free speech,'' said Chris Rhie, a student protest organizer. ''Forging a relationship between Yale and China is more than collaborating with faculty and more than sending students to the university there.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Hu Jintao of China with Secretary General Kofi Annan during a visit to the United Nations headquarters last September. (Photo by Andrew Gombert/European Pressphoto Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); POLITICS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); HURRICANE KATRINA (69%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (66%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (66%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (64%); LAWYERS (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); TROPICAL STORMS (55%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%) United States International Relations

COMPANY: JUSTICE NETWORK (52%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) Yale University

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (91%) Hu Jintao (Pres); Richard Levin; Jan Ellen Spiegel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (74%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%) China

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2006



384 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Enemy of the Planet

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Lee Raymond, the former chief executive of Exxon Mobil, was paid $686 million over 13 years. But that's not a reason to single him out for special excoriation. Executive compensation is out of control in corporate America as a whole, and unlike other grossly overpaid business leaders, Mr. Raymond can at least claim to have made money for his stockholders.
 There's a better reason to excoriate Mr. Raymond: for the sake of his company's bottom line, and perhaps his own personal enrichment, he turned Exxon Mobil into an enemy of the planet. 
To understand why Exxon Mobil is a worse environmental villain than other big oil companies, you need to know a bit about how the science and politics of climate change have shifted over the years.
 Global warming emerged as a major public issue in the late 1980's. But at first there was considerable scientific uncertainty.
 Over time, the accumulation of evidence removed much of that uncertainty. Climate experts still aren't sure how much hotter the world will get, and how fast. But there's now an overwhelming scientific consensus that the world is getting warmer, and that human activity is the cause. In 2004, an article in the journal Science that surveyed 928 papers on climate change published in peer-reviewed scientific journals found that ''none of the papers disagreed with the consensus position.'' 
 To dismiss this consensus, you have to believe in a vast conspiracy to misinform the public that somehow embraces thousands of scientists around the world. That sort of thing is the stuff of bad novels. Sure enough, the novelist Michael Crichton, whose past work includes warnings about the imminent Japanese takeover of the world economy and murderous talking apes inhabiting the lost city of Zinj, has become perhaps the most prominent global-warming skeptic. (Mr. Crichton was invited to the White House to brief President Bush.)
 So how have corporate interests responded? In the early years, when the science was still somewhat in doubt, many companies from the oil industry, the auto industry and other sectors were members of a group called the Global Climate Coalition, whose de facto purpose was to oppose curbs on greenhouse gases. But as the scientific evidence became clearer, many members -- including oil companies like BP and Shell -- left the organization and conceded the need to do something about global warming. 
 Exxon, headed by Mr. Raymond, chose a different course of action: it decided to fight the science.
 A leaked memo from a 1998 meeting at the American Petroleum Institute, in which Exxon (which hadn't yet merged with Mobil) was a participant, describes a strategy of providing ''logistical and moral support'' to climate change dissenters, ''thereby raising questions about and undercutting the 'prevailing scientific wisdom.' '' And that's just what Exxon Mobil has done: lavish grants have supported a sort of alternative intellectual universe of global warming skeptics. 
 The people and institutions Exxon Mobil supports aren't actually engaged in climate research. They're the real-world equivalents of the Academy of Tobacco Studies in the movie ''Thank You for Smoking,'' whose purpose is to fail to find evidence of harmful effects. 
 But the fake research works for its sponsors, partly because it gets picked up by right-wing pundits, but mainly because it plays perfectly into the he-said-she-said conventions of ''balanced'' journalism. A 2003 study, by Maxwell Boykoff and Jules Boykoff, of reporting on global warming in major newspapers found that a majority of reports gave the skeptics -- a few dozen people, many if not most receiving direct or indirect financial support from Exxon Mobil -- roughly the same amount of attention as the scientific consensus, supported by thousands of independent researchers. 
 Has Exxon Mobil's war on climate science actually changed policy for the worse? Maybe not. Although most governments have done little to curb greenhouse gases, and the Bush administration has done nothing, it's not clear that policies would have been any better even if Exxon Mobil had acted more responsibly.
 But the fact is that whatever small chance there was of action to limit global warming became even smaller because Exxon Mobil chose to protect its profits by trashing good science. And that, not the paycheck, is the real scandal of Mr. Raymond's reign as Exxon Mobil's chief executive.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); TAKEOVERS (77%); POLITICS (74%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%); WRITERS (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); GREENHOUSE GASES (69%) Weather; Global Warming; Wages and Salaries; Weather

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (95%)

ORGANIZATION: Exxon Mobil

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (95%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (95%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (50%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Paul Krugman; Lee R Raymond

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2006



385 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 278 words

 BODY:

THE OTHER SIDE -- Jeffrey K. Skilling, Enron's former chief executive, returns to the stand in Houston today for the start of his cross-examination by a prosecutor, Sean M. Berkowitz. Last week Mr. Skilling repeatedly declared his innocence and said the government's investigation had made the Enron collapse more painful for all involved. 


DOWN TO THE WIRE -- Federal taxes are due today, except in Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York, Vermont and the District of Columbia, where taxpayers get an extra day. Not going to make it? Applying for an automatic extension using Form 4868, available at www.irs.gov, now gives you an extra six months to file, up from four last year.

PROFIT WATCH -- Corporate earnings season gets into full swing this week. Citigroup, Knight Ridder and Wachovia are due to report today; Allstate, Boston Scientific, Dow Jones, I.B.M., Johnson & Johnson, Merrill Lynch, Motorola, Texas Instruments, Wells Fargo and Yahoo tomorrow; Coca-Cola, Abbott Laboratories, AMR, Apple Computer, eBay, General Dynamics, Honeywell, Intel, J. P. Morgan Chase, Kraft Foods and Pfizer on Wednesday; Altria, Bank of America, BellSouth, EMC, General Motors, Google, Eli Lilly, Merck, Nokia, Schering-Plough, Southwest Airlines and United Parcel Service on Thursday; and 3M, Ford Motor and Wyeth on Friday.

ECONOMIC PULSE -- Two economic reports this week will offer an update on the inflation picture: the producer price index for March, due out tomorrow, and the consumer price index for March, to be released Wednesday. Other reports include housing starts for March, to be released tomorrow, and leading economic indicators, due out on Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CROSS EXAMINATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); REAL ESTATE (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (70%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (69%); PRODUCER PRICES (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); HOUSING STARTS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); ABBOTT LABORATORIES (83%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (69%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); GOOGLE INC (56%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (56%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (56%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); CITIGROUP INC (56%); ALLSTATE CORP (56%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (56%); GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (55%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (55%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (55%); ELI LILLY & CO (55%); FORD MOTOR CO (55%); INTEL CORP (55%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (55%); PFIZER INC (55%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (55%); COCA-COLA CO (55%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%); ABT (SWX) (83%); ABT (NYSE) (83%); ABT (LSE) (83%); ABL (FRA) (83%); JNJ (NYSE) (69%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%); MSI (NYSE) (56%); BSX (NYSE) (56%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%); ALL (NYSE) (56%); TXN (NASDAQ) (56%); GD (NYSE) (55%); UPS (NYSE) (55%); BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%); JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%); LUV (NYSE) (55%); LLY (SWX) (55%); LLY (NYSE) (55%); LEL (LSE) (55%); FORDP (PAR) (55%); F (NYSE) (55%); INTC (NASDAQ) (55%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (55%); PFZ (LSE) (55%); PFEB (BRU) (55%); PFE (NYSE) (55%); MO (NYSE) (55%); KO (NYSE) (55%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (69%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (56%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (56%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (56%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (56%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (56%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (55%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (55%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (55%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (55%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (55%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (55%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (55%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2006



386 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: China's President Says Economy Rose 10.2% in Quarter

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, April 16 

 BODY:
President Hu Jintao of China said on Sunday that his country's economy had grown 10.2 percent in the first quarter of this year -- the strongest surge in three years and a pace that could force the Chinese leadership to take action to prevent overheating.
 Powerful growth in China may further alarm the United States and other nations worried about job losses as Chinese exports soar. President Hu is scheduled to travel to the United States on Monday and will meet on Thursday with President Bush, who is expected to press China to improve intellectual property protections and allow a faster appreciation rate of the yuan against the dollar. 
 Prime Minister Wen Jiabao said on Friday that the government might tighten limits on bank lending, new investment projects and land use after studying the country's economic performance in the first quarter.
 Rapid growth in 2003 led the Chinese government to impose stringent controls in the spring of 2004, including disciplining bankers, developers and Communist party personnel who pursued projects without central government approval. Those measures caused mainland Chinese stocks listed in Hong Kong to fall sharply.
 But many economists say that China's actions will be limited and less draconian this year. Inflation is low, domestic consumption is strengthening, and this time around, economic growth is not as concentrated in large factory and public works projects.
 ''I don't expect them to take any drastic action; they are comfortable with higher growth,'' said Frank Gong, the chief economist for greater China at J. P. Morgan Chase. ''They will keep growth like this for a while.''
 Transportation bottlenecks ranked among the biggest problems that alarmed Chinese officials in the spring of 2004, as bulk cargo vessels carrying iron ore and other raw materials had to wait up to a month to unload at overcrowded Chinese ports, while Chinese railroads proved incapable of carrying from mines all the coal that southern power plants needed.
 But extremely heavy investment at ports, where work crews have been working day and night, and the construction of many new railroads and highways appear to have relieved the bottlenecks. Richard S. Elman, the chief executive of the Noble Group, one of Asia's largest shipping and natural resource companies, said in a recent interview that port delays were no longer a problem in China.
 ''The congestion has been solved, and that's been solved in the last 18 months,'' he said.
 Swift increases this year in bank lending, as in 2003, have stimulated the Chinese economy, as China's large trade surplus and continued intake of heavy foreign direct investment have helped give Chinese companies and individuals large sums to stash in bank deposits that the banks then lend for further investments. While China raised interest rates and bank reserve requirements in 2004, it is moving this time to make it a little easier for Chinese companies and individuals to take more money out of the country, including three long-expected technical adjustments announced late Thursday night. 
 Chinese officials have been very cautious in recent years about acknowledging double-digit growth, claiming unusually steady quarterly growth rates of 9.5 percent to 9.9 percent in eight quarters over the last three years, including a rate of 9.9 percent in the fourth quarter. Many Western economists believe that China's statisticians smooth out growth statistics, partly to portray economic stability and partly to avoid alarming Western countries already troubled by the pace of growth in China.
 But at the same time, Chinese officials have extolled the mainland's economic growth as part of their effort to woo Taiwan, emphasizing the opportunities that greater trade could bring to businesses there. President Hu disclosed the first-quarter growth rate during a meeting on Sunday with Lien Chan, the former chairman of Taiwan's opposition Nationalist Party; the growth rate had not been scheduled for release until Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); EXECUTIVES (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); TRENDS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); CONSUMPTION (73%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%); APPROVALS (70%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); BULK SHIPPING (68%); MARINE VESSELS (63%); MARINE SHIPPING (63%); POWER PLANTS (61%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (55%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (55%); INFRASTRUCTURE (53%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Credit; Land Use Policies

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (91%); WEN JIABAO (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%) Hu Jintao (Pres); Wen Jiabao (Prime Min); Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (92%); ASIA (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2006



387 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1749 words

HEADLINE: In Private Candor From China, An Overture to Promote a Thaw

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: BEIJING, April 16 

 BODY:
China and the United States have engaged in public disputes about trade, human rights, military spending and energy security, but for just a moment late last year, their leaders put briefing books aside and agreed to talk privately.
 With an aura of candor described as unusual for Chinese leaders, President Hu Jintao told President Bush that fighting political corruption, rural unrest, a widening wealth gap and severe pollution consumes nearly all his time. He said domestic problems left China with neither the will nor the means to challenge America's dominance in world affairs, according to two Bush administration officials who were told about the session.
The overture -- described as having improved Mr. Hu's ties with Mr. Bush despite the Chinese leader's generally aloof style -- is part of a Chinese effort to reduce, or at least to deflect, American anxiety about the country's growing economic, political and military power.
 When Mr. Hu travels to Washington this week for his first White House visit as China's top leader, the question will be whether the improved chemistry between the heads of the world's richest nation and its fastest rising rival can enhance a relationship that seems to be stuck somewhere between tentative stability and stormy tension. 
 ''At the top level, the two have become frank and pragmatic in discussing the major issues between them,'' said Michael Green, the former director of Asian affairs at the National Security Council who is now at Georgetown University. ''But China is also trying to expand its influence in the world at the expense of the U.S., which is not something we are going to give them a pass on.''
 Mr. Bush, in his second inaugural address, promised to confront ''every ruler and every nation'' that resisted the tide of freedom. But frustratingly for an administration that has painted the world with such broad brush strokes, the relationship with authoritarian China has tended to resist breakthroughs.
 Unlike the ''Ping-Pong diplomacy'' that led to Richard Nixon's historic handshake with Mao in 1972, the incremental talks on the main issues that divide the two nations have seemed to leave officials fatigued. Those issues include the control of nuclear proliferation in Iran and North Korea, China's support for several resource-rich dictatorships that are hostile to the United States, its gaping trade surplus and poor human rights record, and the always delicate question of American backing for Taiwan, which Beijing claims as its sovereign territory.
 The two countries have, arguably, become each other's biggest long-term threat. But both sides also strive to avoid confrontation. Their political, diplomatic and economic ties are too intertwined for either side to pursue unilateral solutions.
 ''The responsible elite in China has no intention of picking a fight with the U.S.,'' said Jin Canrong, an expert on the United States at People's University in Beijing. ''But no one has much hope that the two countries can develop deep feelings of trust, either.''
 Few expect that Mr. Hu will dispel that unease during his four-day visit. But this Chinese leader is seen as having come around to the idea that China's overall foreign policy objectives depend on a benign relationship with Washington. Chinese officials say he is eager to have his maiden trip to the United States perceived as a success.
 Mr. Hu, 64, emerged from the inner depths of the Communist Party to assume the top leadership positions in 2002. He remains a colorless conservative even by China's buttoned-down standards. He governs sternly and secretly, almost never grants interviews, and has overseen an unrelenting crackdown on journalists, lawyers,and religious leaders who defy one-party rule.
 Unlike his predecessor, Jiang Zemin, who was regarded as pro-American in the Chinese political context, Mr. Hu initially worked harder to cultivate close ties to France, Germany, Russia and Southeast Asian countries. Last year he also ordered a ''smokeless war'' against ''liberal elements'' in Chinese society that he believes are openly or covertly supported by the United States, according to several officials and journalists told about his internal remarks.
 American officials said that in the yearlong negotiations over Mr. Hu's trip, the Chinese side focused mainly on pomp and protocol, down to the television camera angles on the South Lawn of the White House. The two sides argued for months over whether Mr. Hu's trip constituted a formal state visit, until they agreed to disagree. 
 The Bush administration, wary of empty summitry, decided to call it a ''working visit.'' Mr. Bush and Mr. Hu will have lunch at the White House, but no state dinner. Beijing still insists it is a state visit, an honor all of Mr. Hu's predecessors received on their first trip to the White House.
 ''Hu has two priorities -- to make sure relations with the U.S. are not a big problem, and to make sure he doesn't lose face,'' said a senior Chinese academic who asked not to quoted by name when talking about the Chinese leader. ''Of the two, I think the second one is more important to him.''
 But Mr. Hu's earlier assurance to Mr. Bush that China's domestic problems were what preoccupied him most were clearly part of a new effort to address, if not necessarily resolve, those core tensions.
 In a burst of checkbook diplomacy earlier this month, Mr. Hu dispatched China's largest-ever buying delegation to the United States, which committed to purchase $16.2 billion in American aircraft, agricultural products, auto parts, telecommunications gear and computer software. A negotiating team led by Wu Yi, China's vice prime minister, also agreed to undertake a broader crackdown on piracy of American copyrights and trademarks, reopen the Chinese market to American beef, and allow more foreign firms to compete for government contracts.
 Mr. Hu plans to visit Microsoft and dine with its chairman, Bill Gates, in Seattle on Tuesday. Human rights and media watchdog groups have pressed Mr. Gates to raise concerns about China's online censorship and arrest of cyber-dissidents when they meet. Mr. Hu will also tour Boeing's aircraft factory there before continuing on to Washington on Thursday and delivering a speech at Yale on Friday.
 On the sidelines in Seattle, Mr. Hu has also invited a small group of American statesmen and scholars to discuss bilateral relations with him privately, an event that the two countries agreed to keep off the official agenda to encourage candor, participants said. 
 The session was organized by Zheng Bijian, a former head of the Communist Party's main training academy for party cadres, who coined the term ''peaceful rise.'' The concept of peaceful rise, though only informally endorsed by Mr. Hu, is intended to show that China believes that it can emerge as a great power without following the violent path blazed by the United States, Japan, Germany, Britain, France and Russia before it.
 ''There is a real effort at salesmanship going on,'' said one former Bush administration official invited to participate in the private session. ''He wants to come across as charming and attentive to American concerns.''
 Optimists on both sides say the attempts to build confidence amount to more than a propaganda campaign. China, they say, has become a ''status quo'' power, committed to maintaining the international order forged primarily by the United States in the postwar period.
 Global commerce and a peaceful diplomatic environment in East Asia have contributed enormously to China's rapid economic growth in the past quarter century, which depends on foreign investment, open markets, secure borders and generally nonideological ties with its neighbors.
 Many Chinese scholars say Beijing may not tolerate American hegemony in foreign affairs indefinitely. But most also say that Beijing has too much at stake in the current world order to try upsetting it in the foreseeable future.
 ''We have no incentive to wreck the global system established by the U.S.,'' said Wang Xiaodong, a prolific writer and pundit who has argued that the country should not bow to American pressure. ''The reason is, simply, that it is a game we can win.''
 On the American side, the trend is also toward more integration. Deputy Secretary of State Robert B. Zoellick, who last fall called China a ''stakeholder'' in the international system, has promoted high-level strategic dialogue between the countries, which China has eagerly embraced.
 But there are many pessimists as well. They see the risks of conflict mounting unless the Communist Party gives up its monopoly on power. Mr. Hu's accommodation of the United States is viewed as temporizing, giving China time to gather strength and spread its influence unhindered.
 People who worry about China's intention point in particular to its rapid military buildup as a sign of its increased financial wherewithal and nascent strategic ambitions that will inevitably challenge America's dominance in the Pacific.
 Beijing's efforts to secure supplies of oil, natural gas and other commodities in countries that have rocky relations with Washington, including Sudan, Iran and Venezuela, have also raised suspicions that it is using its buying power to create a circle of friends hostile to American interests.
 Economically, China is widely accused of keeping the value of its currency, the yuan, artificially cheap to encourage export-fueled growth and attract foreign manufacturers. Last year, it enjoyed a record $203 billion bilateral trade surplus with the United States.
 While Chinese officials say they intend to shift to an economic model that favors domestic consumer-led growth and will gradually let the yuan appreciate closer to its market value, both the Bush administration and some members of Congress say that is not happening fast enough to head off a possible rupture in economic ties.
 Randall G. Shriver, a former Bush administration deputy assistant secretary of state for East Asia and the Pacific who is now with Armitage International, a consulting firm in Washington, said Chinese actions on the economic, military and diplomatic front signaled a willingness to undermine American foreign policy goals.
 ''I'm not convinced that they want to challenge us across the board,'' Mr. Shriver said. ''But there is a general notion that they want to accumulate influence, which will necessarily diminish U.S. power.''
 He added, ''The game is on.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Hu Jintao (pg. A1)
A man in a Beijing store with pirated DVD's, a source of tension with the United States. President Hu Jintao, with President Bush last year, is visiting this week. (Photo by Elizabeth Dalziel/Associated Press)
 (Photo by Luke Frazza/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. A9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CORRUPTION (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (71%) United States International Relations; Freedom and Human Rights

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RICHARD NIXON (59%) Joseph Kahn; George W (Pres) Bush; Hu Jintao (Pres)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%) China; China

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2006



388 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1401 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Seeks to Lower a Barrier for Food Stamps

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
The Bloomberg administration, in a significant departure from the welfare policies of the Giuliani era, is pursuing a federal waiver that would make it easier for able-bodied adults who do not have children to qualify for food stamps, even if they are not working.
 In his first term, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg hewed closely to the groundbreaking changes in welfare policy begun under his predecessor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, who criticized what he called a culture of dependence on public aid and whose reforms were emulated in other large cities. But now Mr. Bloomberg is moving to loosen a major provision of welfare reform.
About 43,000 able-bodied childless adults in the city use food stamps, and easing the eligibility requirements would make at least 13,900 more people eligible, according to city estimates, although nonprofit groups that have been pressing for the change since the Giuliani administration predicted that even more could qualify.
 Driving the change is a recognition that poor residents are facing growing pressures in paying for food and basic costs. The number of New Yorkers receiving food stamps has steadily risen in the last four years, even as the number of those receiving cash welfare assistance has fallen to its lowest level in 40 years. 
 ''The city expects everyone to do their fair share when taking any form of public help, but we recognize that some people have barriers that make it impossible, or very difficult, for them to find jobs,'' said Robert McHugh, a spokesman for the city's Human Resources Administration.
 With little public attention, the Bloomberg administration has been turning to the federally financed food stamp program over the past year as a way to help needy New Yorkers. Last April, the city began accepting food stamp applications by mail or fax. In September, the city received a three-year federal grant that allowed nonprofit groups to start accepting food stamp applications at food pantries and soup kitchens and to begin processing them online. 
 In January, in his State of the City address, the mayor announced a plan to build an online information and application system for food stamps, health insurance and other public benefits.
 The waiver now being sought by the city, which is expected to be approved by the federal government, would affect adults ages 18 to 49 who are not responsible for a child or incapacitated relative and are not physically or mentally unfit for work. The federal welfare overhaul of 1996 imposed a three-month limit on food stamps in any three-year period for this group, known as able-bodied adults without dependents. 
 The overhaul allowed states to request a waiver of the three-month time limit for residents of areas with relatively high unemployment rates. Most big cities that have been eligible currently receive the waiver, including Chicago, Seattle and Washington. 
 ''New York has been unusual in being one of the only cities in the country eligible for the waiver that has not had it," said Robert Greenstein, executive director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research group in Washington.
 The three-month time limit does not affect those adults who work at least 80 hours a month, participate in job-training programs for at least 20 hours a week, or are enrolled in workfare, performing a job like raking leaves or answering phones in exchange for benefits.
 Advocates of programs that feed the poor have long viewed the three-month limit as too harsh. A 1998 study sponsored by the Agriculture Department found that able-bodied childless adults who were receiving food stamps were likely to have incomes far below the poverty line and to have poor employment prospects because they lacked skills and education. Even when they find jobs in the retail or service industries, they have little job security.
 ''People can take six months and even a year to find new jobs,'' said James D. Weill, executive director of the Food Research and Action Center, an anti-hunger policy organization in Washington. ''To say you can only have three months of food-stamp benefits is egregiously harsh and not a sensible public policy.''
 Joel S. Berg, executive director of the New York City Coalition Against Hunger, which represents 1,100 food pantries and soup kitchens, wrote letters to Mr. Bloomberg each of his first four years in office urging him to accept the waiver. ''I didn't bother to send such a letter in 2006 because I assumed this issue was a lost cause with this mayor,'' he said.
 The waiver will cost the city almost nothing. Federal food stamp benefits are financed by the Food and Nutrition Service of the Agriculture Department, although states pay a portion of the program's administrative costs. In comparison, the federal government pays for roughly half of the cash welfare program, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, in New York; the state and local governments pay the rest.
 The number of food stamp recipients dropped from a high of nearly 1.5 million in March 1995, during the Giuliani administration, to a low of 798,396 in January 2002, Mr. Bloomberg's first month in office. Since then it has steadily risen, to nearly 1.1 million as of February -- its highest level since 1998. 
 The fall and subsequent rise in the use of food stamps mirrors a national trend, driven by unemployment rates and efforts by the federal government to simplify the application process. The average national food stamp benefit was $92.69 a month, per person, in 2005. (In most places, including New York, electronic benefit cards have replaced paper coupons.)
 At least three major factors seem to have played into the decision by the Bloomberg administration to accept the waiver.
 First, despite a short-lived rise in the welfare rolls, from 2002 to 2004, the number of city residents on public assistance is at its lowest level since 1964, allowing Mr. Bloomberg to ease his position on food stamps without opening himself to attack by conservatives as being irresponsible or encouraging dependence. 
 ''New York City has developed the most extensive work-focused employment program of any large city in the country,'' the commissioner of the Human Resources Administration, Verna Eggleston, wrote on March 28 to the State Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance, which is seeking the waiver on the city's behalf.
 Second, public pressure on hunger and nutrition issues has been mounting. 
 Since she took office in 2002, the city's public advocate, Betsy Gotbaum, has called for the city to accept the waiver, and the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, this month proposed setting aside $260,000 a year to operate a new citywide office to combat hunger and obesity. And Mr. Bloomberg himself has said that alleviating poverty would be a priority of his second term.
 Third, there are practical benefits to accepting the waiver. In February 2005, the city began WeCare, a program that offers medical assessments, health care and individual training for welfare recipients who say they are too sick to work. 
 By easing the work requirements for some adult food stamp recipients, the city will be able to shift caseworkers away from the tedious task of verifying eligibility for food stamps and toward the goal of further reducing the welfare caseload by moving recipients into the workforce.
 The city's moves to ease eligibility for such benefits marks a significant departure from past practice. In 1999, the Agriculture Department and a federal judge found that the Giuliani administration was routinely delaying or denying applications for food stamps and Medicaid in violation of federal law.
 The Urban Justice Center has twice sued the Bloomberg administration over food stamp issues. In 2002, it asserted that the city was improperly denying benefits to poor people who were too disabled to work. In 2004, it claimed that the city's delays in processing food stamp applications were illegal. Both cases are pending.
 Lawrence M. Mead III, a professor of politics at New York University and a conservative scholar of welfare, said he did not believe that easier access to food stamps would discourage people from working.
 ''To apply for the food-stamp waiver is an important departure from Giuliani's policies, but its practical effect, in terms of producing a large increase in dependency, is probably limited,'' Professor Mead said.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''More Food Aid''After declines during the 1990's, the number of people receiving food stamps in New York City has been rising.Graph tracks total food stamp recipients in New York City since 1995.(Source by New York City Coalition Against Hunger)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD STAMPS (94%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); MAYORS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); HUMAN RESOURCES (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (67%); APPROVALS (65%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) Welfare (US); Food Stamps; Welfare (US); Welfare (US)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (90%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%) Sewell Chan; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Rudolph W Giuliani

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2006



389 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CONNECTIONS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: It's a Complicated Dance Between Strong Leadership and the Popular Will 

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN

 BODY:
Be careful what you wish for, particularly when it comes to politics. Wish for democratic elections, and you may get duly elected tyranny and terror. Wish for democratic debate, and you may get polarized parties and a divided electorate. Wish for democratic responsiveness and you may get opinion-poll leadership. Wish for statesmanship and you may get demagoguery. One temptation might be to wish for nothing in particular, but then who knows what might happen? 
 The difficulty seems to congeal around the very nature of political leadership in a democratic state. A democratic leader is, at least in part, an oxymoron. A leader is ahead of those being led, but a democratic leader is also supposed to be a follower, obeying the will of the people. 
Neither position is without dangers. Given examples of perverse expressions of popular will -- the terrors of the French Revolution, Nazism, Hamas -- who can simply rely on democratic sentiment? And given similar examples of demagoguery, who can believe in an enlightened tyranny? We desire strong leaders and justly fear them. We desire widespread democracy and justly worry about the consequences.
 Such issues -- as relevant in the United States and Europe as in Iraq -- inspired a conference at Yale University earlier this month, organized by the political scientist Steven Smith with a colleague, Bryan Garsten: ''Statesmen and Demagogues: Democratic Leadership in Political Thought.'' The conference was also a reflection of Mr. Smith's belief that in the academic world questions about the nature of political leadership are not as fully explored as they should be. 
 This is partly a result of a long trend, he said, in which politics has been treated as the reflection of supposedly more profound economic or historical forces. But understanding the nature of statesmanship, he suggested, also requires thinking about the powers of remarkable individuals. This subject, often treated in popular biography, is much neglected in recent political science, in Mr. Smith's view. 
 So the conference came at the subject from differing perspectives, bringing together historians, students of contemporary politics and political philosophers. The speakers ranged from the French political scientist Pierre Hassner to Carnes Lord, who teaches military strategy at the United States Naval War College. 
 What happens, for example, in developing countries where democracy and demagoguery vie for power (a subject addressed by Fernando Henrique Cardoso, the former president of Brazil now teaching at Brown University)? When did our ideas of demagoguery and leadership arise (a subject considered by Melissa Lane of Cambridge University, who spoke about notions of the demagogue in Plato and Plutarch)? 
 And how do examples of admired political leadership differ from examples of tyranny or demagoguery? Simple formulas will not suffice. After all, Lincoln suspended habeas corpus during the Civil War, yet is credited with preserving the Constitution. Hitler is often described as a demagogue who spread theories about Jewish conspiracies to mobilize popular support, yet, as the historian Jeffrey Herf argued, this wasn't pure demagoguery: Hitler really believed these theories. ''A statesman,'' declared Harry S. Truman in a comment cited more than once during the two days of talks, ''is a politician who's been dead 10 or 15 years.'' So is it simply a matter of political taste? Is one man's statesman another man's demagogue? 
 This much became clear: There is more to it than that. 
 Participants were all given a copy of Lincoln's 1838 Lyceum speech to read, in which the future president condemned mob violence and racial lynching but also considered the tension between a constitutional order and ambitious individuals who seek to transcend its restrictions. Such challengers, Lincoln wrote, aspire to greatness, and seem to come ''from the family of the lion or the tribe of the eagle.'' How does a democratic order contain such ambition, and how can such ambition find satisfaction in democratic statesmanship? 
 This is not an incidental tension in democratic political life: it may be the essential one, defining democracy's risks and possibilities. Jeffrey Tulis, who teaches government at the University of Texas at Austin, suggested that powerful political leadership almost always contains within itself a challenge to democracy; it asserts prerogatives; it takes liberties. It even emerges most clearly at times when the democratic order itself is under threat (think of Lincoln, Churchill or Franklin Delano Roosevelt). 
 Statesmanship, that is, arises at disruptive times while being potentially disruptive in itself. Yet somehow, these disruptions must be absorbed within that threatened order. 
 Mr. Tulis pointed out that Locke believed that political leaders, in seeking the public good, possessed the prerogative to act even against the law itself. History, though, has amply displayed the dangers of that principle. American constitutionalism, Mr. Tulis suggested, created a new kind of arena for statesmanship: the lion and eagle are tamed by checks and constitutional arrangements.
 There is something sober rather than idealistic in this arrangement: it acknowledges human weakness and ambition. But it doesn't solve the problem; it only postpones it, creating obstacles for statesmanship's ambitions, demanding that, at least at times, the leader must follow. 
 Is this, then, the democratic proposal? It offers not the abstract principle, but the mess of common practice. It presumes the existence of disagreement and difference. Statesmanship becomes associated not with grand visions but with the practical working out of things. No wonder strong democratic leadership is so difficult to maintain and so historically rare: democracy discourages power with negotiation, argument and a continuous testing of wills.
 There are dangers here, too, of course. If a society does not accept the principle of disagreement, then its leadership will not be democratic no matter what its origins. The lion and the eagle still have tremendous lure; so do attempts to cripple them. Democracy, at any rate, offers not virtue but struggle. Virtue requires something else. 

Connections, a critic's perspective on arts and ideas, appears every other Monday.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Drawing the line between demagoguery and leadership: above, Lincoln at Antietam, Md., during the Civil War
while a defender of the Constitution, he suspended habeas corpus. Right, Hitler at a rally in Nuremberg in 1938
by some definitions he was not a demagogue because he sincerely believed his theories. (Photo by Alexander Gardner)
 (Photo by Topical Press Agency/Hulton Archive -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (87%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); HAMAS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); HISTORY (69%); CIVIL WAR (68%); HABEAS CORPUS (66%); NAVIES (63%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (63%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (63%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (60%) Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (82%); HAMAS (56%) Yale University

PERSON: Edward Rothstein; Steven Smith

GEOGRAPHIC: NUREMBERG, GERMANY (58%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2006



390 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Buffalo Journal; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: A Casino Proposal That Was Once Lauded Is Now Drawing Criticism

BYLINE: By DAVID STABA

DATELINE: BUFFALO, N.Y., April 16 

 BODY:
When the Seneca Nation of Indians proposed building a casino in this depressed city's downtown, business and political leaders were quick to signal their support, saying it would draw tourists from outside the region and spur development along the nearby waterfront.
 But now that support is wavering. One of the region's most successful businessmen, Tom Golisano, a billionaire, declared his opposition last week, and he was followed by the Erie County executive, who said he would join a pair of lawsuits brought by citizens' groups to halt construction. 
The sudden turmoil follows a Seneca Nation filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission that described the tribe's plans for the casino in terms much different than what city officials and business leaders say they heard in the initial proposal -- that the casino was intended to encourage people from outside the area to come and spend their money in the economically troubled city.
 The casino, the Seneca Nation said in a S.E.C. filing last Dec. 29, ''is expected to cater primarily to the local market in Buffalo and its suburbs.''
 As word of that S.E.C. filing filtered out in recent weeks, support has begun to shift.
 ''This is a train that needs to stop here and now,'' Mr. Golisano said during a news conference on Tuesday. ''I don't think Buffalo Creek should be built.''
 A 2002 compact between the Seneca Nation of Indians and New York State allowed the Seneca Nation to build three casinos at the western end of the state. One opened in Niagara Falls later that year, with a second following in Salamanca in 2004. The proposed Seneca Buffalo Creek Casino, named for one of the area's earliest settlements, is scheduled to open on a sovereign nine-acre parcel in downtown Buffalo by December 2007.
 But Mr. Golisano, the founder of Paychex, owner of the Buffalo Sabres hockey team and a three-time candidate for governor on the Independence Party line, said that by catering to people in the area, the planned casino would hurt the city.
 ''It's not going to bring people or dollars in from very far outside the area,'' said Mr. Golisano. ''I think it's a transfer of money from local citizens to the Seneca Gaming Corporation and I don't know how that helps Buffalo.''
 Joel A. Giambra, the Erie County executive, said he agreed. ''If it's not marketed to bring in outside money, it's going to be a disaster,'' he said on Thursday. He said he was also concerned that Seneca officials ''refer to it as a 'European' casino. I thought that was a code for a casino that preys on poor people.''
 But Seneca Gaming Corporation officials point to 3,000 jobs created at its existing casinos, including a 600-room hotel that opened in Niagara Falls in December 2005 and say they plan to employ another 1,000 in Buffalo. In a statement, the corporation estimated $50 million to $70 million is spent annually by Buffalo-area gamblers at casinos, bingo halls and racetracks in Fort Erie and Niagara Falls, Ontario.
 ''Right now, those tens of millions of dollars are leaving Western New York and supporting economic development and communities across the border,'' said Barry E. Snyder Sr., president of the Seneca Nation of Indians and chairman of the Seneca Gaming Corporation. ''Seneca Buffalo Creek Casino will give Buffalo a vehicle with which to keep those dollars in the area so that they can support local jobs and add to the revenue share which the city will receive.''
 Buffalo's mayor, Byron W. Brown, who took office in January, said he wanted to meet with Mr. Snyder before deciding whether to continue his support.
 ''I always had the belief that their casino property in Buffalo would be aggressively marketed outside the region and would bring in tourists with new dollars spending those new dollars in our city and region,'' he said Thursday.
 Last month, the Seneca Gaming Corporation asked the city for $6 million in improvements to roads and utilities around the nine-acre site, which houses a dormant grain elevator, as well as an easement on a city street. ''The city is still in a very difficult fiscal situation and I think this most recent revelation really creates a dynamic where we have to take a long hard look at providing any resources for infrastructure around the casino,'' Mr. Brown said.
 Mr. Golisano, who blamed advertising for the New York State Lottery for helping create ''a generation of gamblers,'' said he would consider helping pay for the citizens' lawsuits, as well as launching an advertising campaign to inform local residents about the impact of gambling. Mr. Giambra said Erie County's legal department would provide ''bench strength'' to a legal team made up of 10 lawyers from four Buffalo firms.
 Joseph M. Finnerty, coordinating lawyer for the state and federal lawsuits filed by opponents, said the state litigation was meant to force Buffalo Creek into the same environmental-impact review required of most large-scale projects in the state. The federal lawsuit maintains that the process mandated by federal law for building Indian casinos off-reservation was ignored by former Secretary of the Interior Gale A. Norton in allowing the casino deal to go through. A hearing is scheduled for the federal lawsuit in May, with oral arguments in the state litigation set for July. 
 Mr. Finnerty said last week's statements by Mr. Golisano and Mr. Giambra buoyed the efforts of casino opponents.
 ''What you're seeing now is a sea change from the situation as it existed on the first business day after New Year's, when we announced our first suit,'' Mr. Finnerty said. ''At that point, the mentality was, 'This is a done deal.' ''
 Mr. Snyder said the Seneca Gaming Corporation plans on spending $125 million to build a Buffalo casino, which he said would be marketed jointly with the other two sites, but could scale back plans without government cooperation.
 Mr. Snyder, of the Seneca Nation, said, ''We will get Seneca Buffalo Creek Casino built.'' He said it was up to city leaders to decide whether they want to work toward developing a casino that will bring outside visitors to Buffalo, ''or whether they want something less magnificent.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Seneca Nation of Indians plans to build a casino where a dormant grain elevator stands. But opponents include Tom Golisano, left, who says the casino was supposed to draw customers from outside Buffalo. (Photo by Mike Groll)
 (Photo by Robert Kirkham/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (91%); GAMING (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); COUNTIES (76%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (73%); CITIES (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); LITIGATION (70%); GOVERNORS (69%); ICE HOCKEY (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) Gambling; Casinos; Seneca Indians; Indians, American

COMPANY: PAYCHEX INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%)

TICKER: PAYX (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561330 PROFESSIONAL EMPLOYER ORGANIZATIONS (53%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (53%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (53%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: David Staba

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Buffalo (NY)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2006



391 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; MARATHON; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Keflezighi Finds Niche, Giving U.S. Its Favorite

BYLINE: By FRANK LITSKY

DATELINE: BOSTON, April 16 

 BODY:
When Ron Tabb finished third in the Boston Marathon in 1980, he proved he was fast. A decade later, he proved he was a great judge of talent.
 As a coach in California, Tabb told a high school sophomore miler that big days were ahead of him, but not in the mile. The young runner was Meb Keflezighi, a favorite in Monday's 110th Boston Marathon to become the first American man to win the race since Greg Meyer in 1983.
 ''When I was in high school, Ron Tabb was coaching a college in San Diego, and we were out on the track,'' Keflezighi said Friday. ''He said, 'You're going to be a good marathon runner.' I said, 'What do you mean? I'm a miler.' I was a 4:18 miler. Two years later, I did 4:05.'' 
 But at U.C.L.A., Keflezighi moved up to longer distances and developed into a world-class competitor. In 2004, he won the silver medal in the marathon at the Athens Olympics. Now, three weeks short of turning 31, he is a threat every time he runs.
 At 5 feet 6 inches and 128 pounds, Keflezighi has the economical build of a successful marathon runner, but he has yet to win one in six tries. He has been close. In 2004, he was second in the United States Olympic trials, second at the Olympics and second in New York. Last year, he finished third in New York. 
 ''Never winning doesn't bother me,'' he said. ''It keeps me hungry.''
 He said he understands the expectations.
 ''There's a big weight on my shoulders,'' he said. ''But I've been running for 15 years. I had a lot more pressure at U.C.L.A., and I did fine. It's what I do day in and day out.''
 Keflezighi has overcome pressure all his life. In 1987, his family left the war-torn eastern African state of Eritrea, where he was born, and settled in California. He became a United States citizen in 1998 and earned his college degree in communications.
 In his family, the six oldest children, all born in Eritrea, have graduated from United States colleges. The seventh is a freshman at Stanford; the four others are too young for college.
 From February to November, Keflezighi trains at an altitude of 8,000 feet in Mammoth Lakes, Calif. The rest of the year, he trains near his home in San Diego, which he likes because he can spend more time with his wife, Yordanos, and their infant daughter, Sara.
 In January, he spent a week in Boston and ran the marathon course in segments of 10 to 12 miles. He said he felt his preparation here and in California was sufficient.
 ''You feel some pressure, sure,'' he said. ''But you just hope you do well because you've done your homework.''
 Bob Larsen, his coach since college, said he was satisfied.
 ''He's ready to run well,'' Larsen said. ''He's fit, and he's certainly ready to contend.''
 Bill Rodgers, who won this race four times between 1975 and 1980, also said Keflezighi could capture the Boston Marathon.
 ''Meb has a good shot at winning,'' Rodgers said. ''He's always up there. He's a great hill runner, which he proved in Athens. He's smart. He's a good strategist.''
 And Keflezighi says he likes his chances.
 ''I've been there before,'' he said. ''I'm not worried. If I'm in there with six miles to go, I know the crowd will drive me in. This course is very challenging. You go up and down and up again. You have to remember the marathon is about patience. You've just got to be in contact, and when you make your move don't be too aggressive because there's another hill coming. You have to be competitive. I hope I am.''

NOTES
 The Boston Marathon is held annually on Patriot's Day and will include about 22,490 competitors from 94 nations. The race will start in suburban Hopkinton, Mass., and may face slight headwinds and crosswinds and temperatures in the 50's. The runners will finish in the Back Bay section of Boston. 
 The men's field includes the last three Boston champions -- Hailu Negussie of Ethiopia (2005), Timothy Cherigat of Kenya (2004) and Robert Cheruiyot of Kenya (2003) -- as well as Alan Culpepper, an American who finished fourth last year. The women's favorites are Reiko Tosa of Japan, the fastest in the field (2 hours 22 minutes 46 seconds); Jelena Prokopcuka of Latvia, last year's New York winner; and Bruna Genovese of Italy, who finished third in Boston last year. 
 The race is the first in the new World Marathon Majors series, in which the man and the woman who do the best over a two-year period will each win $500,000. The other marathons in the series are London's next Sunday, Berlin's, Chicago's and New York's.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Meb Keflezighi could become the first American man to win the Boston Marathon since 1983. (Photo by Ramin Talaie/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARATHONS (91%); RUNNING (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); CHILDREN (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); ATHLETES (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (65%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (65%) Running; Boston Marathon; Marathon Running

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (56%)

PERSON: Frank Litsky; Mebrahtom Keflezighi

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (96%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); ERITREA (92%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); GREECE (55%) Boston (Mass)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2006



392 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: A New Crime Fighter, for $10 in Hay and Oats

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

 BODY:
In this high-tech, gadget-dependent, ''CSI''-obsessed age of police work, one of the New York Police Department's most prized and pampered weapons in the war on lawlessness is a temperamental pack of hay-chomping lads named Zeus, Philly and Angus. 
 Now, after decades of consignment to Central Park patrols, ceremonial trots down Fifth Avenue and the occasional cameo at a raucous demonstration, these horses -- and 85 of their brethren -- have begun patrolling high-crime neighborhoods, making late-night shows of force through Times Square and taking the lead during search-and-rescue missions along thicket-filled riverbanks and wooded urban parkland.
And there soon will be more of them: Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly is increasing the budget for the mounted troop, 75 horses and officers over the next three years, to eventually bring the total to 160, giving mounted patrols a larger role in battling crime. 
 ''There's a reason we call them the 10-foot cop,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''You can see them from blocks away, they're great at crowd control and they're probably the most photographed piece of equipment we have. I'm a huge fan.''
 So are police departments around the country. After decades of being viewed as a quaint 19th-century throwback, horseback policing is undergoing a resurgence in cities like Honolulu, Las Vegas and Oklahoma City. Law enforcement officials have come to appreciate the tactical and economic advantages of a mobile crime-fighting force whose members cost one-fifth the price of a Crown Victoria cruiser.
 One mounted officer, police strategists like to say, carries the punch of 10 beat officers, especially when it comes to making a statement at large public gatherings or on busy downtown streets.
 Scott McClelland, whose family in Canada trains and sells horses to law enforcement agencies across North America, said he gets weekly calls from small town sheriffs and big city police chiefs interested in starting mounted units.
 ''They can do more than a cop on foot, or a guy in a car,'' said Mr. McClelland, speaking from his ranch on the plains of Saskatchewan. ''They can gallop through traffic, go the wrong way up one-way streets, and they're great for community relations. I mean, you can't exactly pet a cop car. Or a police dog, for that matter.'' 
 In New York, once paired, officers and their horses often spend the rest of their careers together. For example, Sgt. William McKay and Angus have been partners for nine years. Recently, they helped round up a group of men involved in a shooting. All it took was the approaching clippity-clop of Angus and few stern shouts from Sergeant McKay. 
 ''When a cop on horseback issues a command, people tend to listen,'' he said. ''I mean, I'm sitting on a thousand pounds of animal. It's also human nature to respect and fear a horse.'' 
 Sergeant McKay's Coney Island-based unit recently began patrolling some of the more troubled precincts of central Brooklyn, including East New York and Brownsville, where they often draw a crowd that is both appreciative and awed. In communities with a longstanding mistrust of the police, he said, there is nothing like a large animal to break the ice. 
 At the dawn of the automobile age, the city had 700 mounted officers. In 1970's, in the fiscal crisis, that number dropped to 40. These days, the department spends $4,000 to buy each horse, all of them castrated thoroughbreds or quarter horses that are groomed for police work. 
 Daily maintenance? About $10 a day for hay, grain and bedding material. ''Sure beats the price of gas,'' said Lt. David Gaynor, who oversees the stables in the Bronx where horses are tested and trained. ''And they don't give off carbon monoxide.''
 For every horse that makes it to the streets of New York, at least five others are returned to the seller, Lieutenant Gaynor said. Inherently skittish and prone to flee at the first hint of trouble, many horses will rear up at a wind-blown plastic bag or back away from a groaning sanitation truck. Horses prone to bucking, bolting or nibbling on fingers are rejected.
 Paint horses, those of mottled coloring, need not apply. (The department values dark-hued uniformity, although there is one snow-white horse on the force.) Ultimately, trainers look for a combination of intelligence, fearlessness and the child-friendly demeanor of a show pony. 
 Prospects that make it to the training center in Pelham Bay Park are put through a nerve-racking gantlet of sensory challenges that include smoke bombs, clanging metal pots, hissing flares and the ultimate test, blanks fired a few paces from a horse's head. After three to six months of training, graduates make a 12-mile victory march to Manhattan.
 On a recent afternoon, about a dozen horses, some newly arrived, some tried-and-true veterans, were put through ''nuisance training,'' an ad-hoc obstacle course. Because they are highly socialized pack animals, the old-timers will often lend confidence to the rookies, which is particularly helpful when horses and their riders are forced to gallop across a blue plastic tarp, dash along an allee of burning hay, then made to march against a phalanx of hostile men waving trash bags and firing off air horns. 
 The idea, trainers explained, is to simulate the more harrowing aspects of city life: a gun battle, the possible mayhem of a United Nations protest or, say, the ugly aftermath of a Yankees-Red Sox game that spills out into the parking lot. (Attention would-be troublemakers: police horses cannot be thwarted by firecrackers, carrots or golf balls rolled beneath their feet.)
 Having endured fire, smoke and shouting men, the horses and their riders are rewarded with a rugby-like tournament involving a giant inflatable ball pushed around by snout and hoof. The exercise, Lieutenant Gaynor explained, is to get the horses accustomed to pushing through throngs of people. 
 Although it is hard to find critics of mounted police -- People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals supports law enforcement's humane use of horses -- some experts say their value is limited. A mounted officer, they contend, might be reluctant to leave his horse behind to chase a fleeing suspect. Ice can be a formidable foe. 
 Others suggested that horses are a police department indulgence. Then there are waste-related issues, although horse manure, boosters pointed out, quickly dries up and blows away.
 ''Some cops disparage them as all show,'' said Peter C. Moskos, a former police officer who is now professor at John Jay College of Criminal Justice. ''Some guys say they're no better than a set of bagpipes.''
 Getting a spot with one of the city's mounted troop is highly competitive, and once they get in, most officers stay until retirement, even if it means giving up more lucrative transfers. Old horses live out their final years at an upstate horse farm, and many officers will show up at the stables long before the start of their shift just to groom their partners. 
 After 10 years on foot patrol, Officer Chris Farino, 33, recently won a coveted spot in the mounted troop. ''I played cops and robbers a long time, and now that I'm on a horse, my picture's on everybody's refrigerator,'' he said. 
 Friends in the force rib him, saying he is a playboy who no longer works for a living. After all, he said, most people pay good money to spend a few hours on horseback.
 ''Compared to traditional policing,'' he said, ''this feels like a vacation.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Zeus, left, got an equipment change from Officer Staszeski in Pelham Bay Park, where members of the mounted horse troop went through the obstacles of ''nuisance training.''
Officers trained police horses on the streets in the Bronx: Bill Staszeski, left, aboard Zeus
Vincent Carney, center, atop #503, an unnamed trainee
and Colin McCarty, on Philly. (Photographs by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. B6)
 Mounted police officers play a kind of rugby to train horses to get used to maneuvering through crowds. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HORSES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); CITIES (74%); DOGS (73%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (71%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (65%) Police; Horses; Budgets and Budgeting; Finances; Police

PERSON: Andrew Jacobs

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2006



393 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: Renovation of U.N. Complex Stalled by U.S., an Official Says

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, April 17 

 BODY:
The director of the $1.6 billion plan to restore the aging and dilapidated headquarters of the United Nations said Monday that persistent objections from the United States were causing delays in meeting deadlines and jeopardizing the future of the entire project.
 Under the plan, the United Nations intends to move its operations into a new temporary building on its existing campus and some office space in midtown Manhattan over the next seven years so that the iconic Secretariat and General Assembly buildings can undergo long-postponed refurbishment. 
 If approved by the General Assembly, the arrangement will end a 10year search for updated space that has caused the United Nations to consider everything from housing on cruise ships to a move to Brooklyn.
 ''We're poised with an incredibly responsible set of drawings, completely tested in the market, tested by so many outside auditors that I don't want to tell you,'' said the plan's director, Louis Frederick Reuter IV, a veteran of large project management in New York, ''and these are real costs, they are competitive, they are real good numbers for doing this kind of work in the city.''
 ''It's one of those moments in time that I don't think will be recreated if not acted on in a very short period of time,'' he said.
 Before taking on the remodeling task in 2001, Mr. Reuter was responsible for the $1 billion rebuilding of New York/Weill Cornell Medical Center over the Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive. He said the absence of American agreement was resulting in rising costs and disillusioning the team of experts he had assembled for the task.
 ''I won't kid you that we're not frustrated that this is being delayed and that the building is not getting healthier,'' he said. ''We are very near consensus, and we are having issues not only with cost increases but also brain drain. There is a lot of other work out there going on in New York.''
 He said the current impasse had arisen when the United States emerged as the only country blocking $100 million that was to have been approved for the project by April 1. He calculated that the delay was increasing costs by $225,000 a day.
 John R. Bolton, the American ambassador, said Monday that the United States had offered $23.5 million but was not convinced that the larger amount was needed at the moment. ''I don't think the justification has been made yet on the full $100 million,'' he said.
 ''We're not trying to slow this down,'' Mr. Bolton said, ''but we want to proceed in a careful and prudent fashion. The United States thinks that $23.5 million is a lot of money and should carry a pretty good distance until we can have decisions by the General Assembly on some of the other critical questions, like what strategy the organization wants to follow.''
 Mr. Reuter said the American sum would cover only administrative and design expenses and would not allow the United Nations to move forward on its schedule for obtaining critical lease obligations and commitments to pre-construction work on the temporary building.
 Periodic surveys of the 55-year-old structures on the East River, which were constructed under 1938 building codes, have pronounced them alarmingly behind the times and below minimal safety standards. They have cited asbestos insulation, lead paint, outmoded plumbing and electric systems, lack of sprinklers, frequent power shutdowns and leaking roofs.
 Mr. Reuter said plaster from the ceiling of the General Assembly fell to the floor last fall just days before 150 presidents, prime ministers and monarchs gathered there to commemorate the organization's 60th anniversary.
 The plan calls for the staff to vacate 10 of the Secretariat building's 38 floors in four phases and to move to equivalent space to be leased in a midtown Manhattan office building. Under the arrangement, the secretary general and other Secretariat officials would move but not be obliged to leave the headquarters during the renovation.
 A temporary conference hall would be constructed on the sculpture lawn at the north reach of the United Nations campus at First Avenue and 46th Street. Mr. Reuter described it as ''like a Wal-Mart, a gymnasium, a big box'' and said it would be used in three phases to accommodate people whose work spaces were being overhauled.
 The $1.6 billion cost would be covered by added dues assessments for the 191 member countries over five years. The United States, the largest contributor to the United Nations, would be responsible for 22 percent.
 The proposal replaces an earlier renewal plan that called for the 3,600 people at the headquarters complex to move for five years to a new $330 million, 35-story building to be constructed on a playground next door. The United Nations had to abandon that plan in August after the New York State Legislature refused to pass enabling legislation.
 Mr. Reuter said construction costs would be $405 a square foot, a rate he said was at the low end of the spectrum in New York. ''I think that's a great number,'' he said.
 Mr. Reuter said he felt he needed approval by the end of this week when, he said, he understood that the budget committee of the General Assembly would be recessing until May. But Movses Abelian, the secretary of the panel, would not confirm that schedule, saying only that its work continued day by day.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (72%); ACCOUNTING (53%) Restoration and Rehabilitation; United States International Relations; Finances

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) United Nations; United Nations

PERSON: Warren Hoge; Louis F 4th Reuter; John R (Amb) Bolton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2006



394 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 121 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing Africa: Chad: Threats On Oil And Refugees Lifted 

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY (NYT)

 BODY:
President Idriss Deby, who beat back a rebel incursion in the Chadian capital last week, backed off on his threats to expel Sudanese refugees from the country and to shut a major transcontinental oil pipeline. Antonio Guterres, the United Nations high commissioner for refugees, said Mr. Deby had assured him he would not order out the 200,000 refugees in eastern Chad who fled the Darfur conflict in neighboring Sudan. As for the oil dispute, an American deputy assistant secretary of state, Donald Y. Yamamoto, will visit Chad soon to mediate a disagreement over revenues between Chad and the World Bank. Mr. Deby has delayed his order to shut the pipeline unless the bank lifted a freeze on oil revenues. MARC LACEY (NYT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (93%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); IMMIGRATION (88%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (87%); WAR CRIMES (86%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (86%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (86%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (85%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (85%); GENOCIDE (85%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (85%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Immigration and Refugees; Credit; Pipelines; War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES (92%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

PERSON: Marc Lacey

GEOGRAPHIC: SUDAN (94%); CHAD (94%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Chad; Sudan; Darfur (Sudan)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2006



395 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: Defying Poverty's Everyday Despair 

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
Life begins tomorrow for the anxious souls inhabiting an overstuffed Bronx apartment in Clifford Odets's ''Awake and Sing!'' Or was it over long before yesterday?
 Dreams and disappointments, hopes and fears, encouraging words and bitter put-downs clash by day and night in Odets's turbulent comedy-drama about a Jewish family struggling to stay afloat in the 1930's. Conflict suffuses the stale air with a tension that almost seems to have mottled the walls. Dinner becomes a simmering battle between factions, in which grievances and recriminations are passed around the table along with the salt and pepper.
In the stirring revival that opened last night at the Belasco Theater, where ''Awake and Sing!'' was first produced in 1935 during the brief but influential heyday of the Group Theater, the tension derives above all from the question marks on the faces of the younger characters onstage. 
 Ralph Berger (Pablo Schreiber), toiling away at 22 as a clerk for a measly salary, comes closest to putting it in so many words, articulating a query that Odets posed in much of his work, occasionally with a defiantly American bluntness: What's life for, anyway? 
 The answers proposed and debated in this vigorous, still pungently funny play sometimes emit the hissing sound of old radio transmissions. ''If this life leads to a revolution, it's a good life,'' avows Ralph's grandfather Jacob, a Marx-worshiping barber. ''Otherwise it's for nothing.'' But even for Jacob life is also for listening to Caruso sing of a paradise that no social upheaval could really bring about.
 Odets was writing at the height of the Depression, when economic disorder had led to a sudden, urgent questioning of some fundamental tenets of American society. ''Awake and Sing!'' and his other early plays are fired by a belief that art could play a role in transforming the culture, creating a world in which life wouldn't be ''printed on dollar bills.''
 But his impassioned desire to proselytize for a better future didn't obscure his sensitivity to the everyday despair that tinted American lives long before the stock market crashed, or the humble forms of solace available even to a guy without a dollar to his name, like the rush of joy in his heart at the gleam in his girl's eye. 
 ''She's so beautiful, you look at her and cry!'' marvels the love-smitten Ralph, the young man over whose future a three-act battle is waged in this play. ''She's like French words!''
 The messy give and take between ideologies and realities, and between hard fact and exuberant feeling, still thrums in ''Awake and Sing!'' It drives the play forward even when the energy dissipates in Bartlett Sher's sympathetic but occasionally faltering staging for Lincoln Center Theater. 
 All of Mr. Sher's skilled performers manage to locate the dreaming centers of their characters, buried beneath layers of political sloganeering, everyday gripes or street slang. And even when the focus blurs, Odets's zesty dialogue, in which jazzy period colloquialisms are slung around like punches at a prizefight, is a joy to hear.
 Nobody slings it with more panache than Mark Ruffalo, the soulful movie and stage actor making his Broadway debut here. He plays the outsider in the Berger family menage, a wiseacre cynic named Moe Axelrod with a missing leg and a doleful crush on Ralph's sister, Hennie. Or as Moe memorably puts it, ''I got a yen for her, and I don't mean a Chinee coin.'' 
 Hennie, played with a wounded transparency by Lauren Ambrose (of ''Six Feet Under''), takes a tough line in her talk too, sneering at Moe, ''For two cents I'd spit in your eye.''
 So it goes chez Berger, where verbal fusillades put up forbidding invisible walls to establish some privacy in the clammy atmosphere of an apartment bulging at the seams. Mr. Ruffalo and Ms. Ambrose imbue the testy interplay between these desperate youngsters with an inward intensity that rises to a charged climax in the play's final moments.
 The other primary source of conflict in the Berger homestead is the bitter divide between Ralph and Hennie's mother, Bessie (Zoe Wanamaker), and her father, Jacob (Ben Gazzara), over the romantic life and financial contributions to the family pocketbook of the anguished Ralph. Bessie swats away her father's socialist proclamations like so much talk of ''Santy Claus'' (that's Moe again, bless him), but she doggedly puts the welfare of a certain collective -- the family -- above the individual hopes of her son.
 As played with captivating flintiness by Ms. Wanamaker, Bessie is both repellent and moving in her blindness to the blight her overbearing love spreads through the apartment. Every so often we are given a glimpse of the frightened mouse inside this terrier of a woman.
 Some of the play's tenderest exchanges are those in which Jacob, played with gruff simplicity by Mr. Gazzara, urges Ralph to resist his mother's imprecations to toe the family line and put away dreams of bettering himself. Mr. Schreiber's height is used as an effective symbol: Ralph always looks as if he's about to bump his head on a doorway, much as his ambitions keep bumping up against a want of opportunity. When Ralph folds himself up at his grandfather's feet, it's the only time this aching character looks at home.
 Writing for his colleagues in the Group Theater, Odets created an ensemble work in which there isn't a single vaguely defined role. (The original cast of ''Awake and Sing!'' included Stella and Luther Adler, Morris Carnovsky and Sanford Meisner, remarkably enough.) Virtually all the cast members in this revival -- including Jonathan Hadary as Bessie's ineffectual husband, Myron; Ned Eisenberg as Bessie's big-shot brother, Morty; and Richard Topol as Hennie's little-loved immigrant husband, Sam -- fill in the thick outlines of their characters admirably.
 What is sometimes absent from Mr. Sher's production, unfortunately, is an enveloping sense of unity among the ensemble, the fluid transmission of feeling between performers that could transform this revival from the fine to the unforgettable by imbuing it with a sustained Chekhovian tone.
 It doesn't help that the naturalistic set by Michael Yeargan begins to do a disappearing act midway through the second act. The symbolic point is well taken: as the family unit begins to disintegrate, the Bergers become more exposed, as poor Bessie has feared, to the cold winds of economic uncertainty and existential angst. But it's still a distraction, and it diffuses the energy onstage.
 Nor do Mr. Sher and his actors always finesse the more effusively rhetorical passages in the play, which can strike the contemporary ear as corny in their lyricism or forthright idealism. Ralph's climactic peroration is a case in point. The now-barren stage and a flurry of snow do the work the actor might better be allowed to, infusing this exultant burst of feeling -- ''I swear to God, I'm one week old!'' -- with a sense of the provisional, adding a note of poignancy to temper the hokum.
 But small infelicities don't smudge the overall sharpness of this picture of life being lived for all it's worth, despite the grinding oppressions of subsisting on the knife edge of poverty. The sweep of American history ran roughshod over some of the ideals Odets and other artists championed in the 1930's. 
 But ideals are not old newspapers, withering into dust. Even tattered, they endure. And as this moving revival reminds us, the song of human aspiration is always sweet to hear.

Awake and Sing!

By Clifford Odets; directed by Bartlett Sher; sets by Michael Yeargan; costumes by Catherine Zuber; lighting by Christopher Akerlind; sound by Peter John Still and Marc Salzberg; stage manager, Robert Bennett; general manager, Adam Siegel; production manager, Jeff Hamlin. Presented by Lincoln Center Theater, under the direction of Andre Bishop and Bernard Gersten. At the Belasco Theater, 111 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. Running time: 2 hours 30 minutes.

WITH: Pablo Schreiber (Ralph Berger), Jonathan Hadary (Myron Berger), Lauren Ambrose (Hennie Berger), Ben Gazzara (Jacob), Zoe Wanamaker (Bessie Berger), Peter Kybart (Schlosser), Mark Ruffalo (Moe Axelrod), Ned Eisenberg (Uncle Morty) and Richard Topol (Sam Feinschreiber).


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mark Ruffalo and Lauren Ambrose in the revival of ''Awake and Sing!'' (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E1)
 From left, Zoe Wanamaker, Lauren Ambrose and Ben Gazzara in the revival of ''Awake and Sing!'' (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (88%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2006



396 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Strong Investment Banking Helps Citigroup Profit Rise 3.6%

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Citigroup yesterday reported a 3.6 percent rise in first-quarter earnings as strong revenue from investment banking and operations overseas offset weak consumer results in the United States. 
 Charles O. Prince III, Citigroup's chief executive, said he was very pleased with the company's performance after a disappointing fourth quarter.
 ''We had terrific results and yet we were not firing on all cylinders,'' he said yesterday during a conference call with analysts and investors.
 Net income increased to $5.64 billion, or $1.12 a share, up from $5.44 billion, or $1.04 a share, in the year-earlier period. Revenue rose 4.7 percent, to $22.2 billion.
 Shares closed yesterday at $48.35, up 30 cents. The stock has risen slightly since Mr. Prince became chief about three years ago, but has not achieved the gains of smaller competitors.
 Citigroup's first-quarter results were driven largely by its investment banking group, which earned more than $1.9 billion on the strong performances of its fixed-income and equities groups, including those focused on investments overseas. 
 Revenue surged 15 percent from the same quarter last year, and Citigroup's investment bankers made more money than any other Wall Street firm except Goldman Sachs, according to Bloomberg News.
 Citigroup's international consumer banking profit rose 21 percent, to $1.1 billion, from the year-earlier period, with strong results in Asia. Still, profit from consumer banking operations in the United States declined 4 percent, to $2 billion.
 Rising interest rates and a flat yield curve continued to put pressure on profit margins. At the same time, Citigroup chose to concentrate on areas like home mortgages rather than on the riskier credit card loans.
 Meanwhile, Citigroup's credit card customers paid their debts faster. Sallie L. Krawcheck, chief financial officer, said earnings were down 10 percent for all consumer lending in the United States.
 Mr. Prince said, ''We saw good customer interaction, lower credit costs, but we also saw our revenue growth was not where we wanted it to be.'' 
 He continued, ''Last year, we made changes in people and strategy. While I don't expect a quick turn, I do expect better results.''
 The results were announced just a few weeks after the Federal Reserve lifted a yearlong order discouraging Citigroup from pursuing major acquisitions and a day before Mr. Prince is to take over as chairman from Sanford I. Weill after the company's annual shareholder meeting.
 Mr. Prince said he remained committed to expanding Citigroup's presence in faster-growing markets overseas while focusing on increasing sales in the United States.
 ''I've said very publicly that 2006 is our year to perform without any excuses,'' he said. ''I feel we did that in the first quarter, and I'm confident we're going to do that over the balance of the year.'' 
 Citigroup also said its board had approved a $10 billion share repurchase program for this year; it laid out plans last year to buy back about $15 billion of company stock.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); RETAIL BANKING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (67%); YIELD CURVE (64%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%) Company Reports

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Citigroup Inc

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: SANDY WEILL (59%) Eric Dash; Charles O III Prince

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2006



397 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Chemical Companies Look To Coal as an Oil Substitute 

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
Coal for fuel? Pretty common. But coal as the main ingredient in wall paints, fertilizers, even grocery bags?
 With oil and natural gas prices showing no signs of plummeting, and with incentives to use coal built into the Energy Policy Act of 2005, it just might happen. And chemical companies, which use oil and gas as feedstocks -- industry jargon for raw materials -- are hoping it will happen soon.
''We want to be economically feasible in the United States, and coal enables us to do that,'' said Andrew N. Liveris, chief executive of Dow Chemical, which has tripled its research into coal-based ingredients.
 That thought is echoed by Frank Mitsch, who follows the chemical industry for the brokerage firm BB&T Capital Markets: ''Coal can mean the difference between being competitive here or having to ship jobs and plants elsewhere.'' 
 In a sense, the chemical industry is simply brushing off an age-old idea. As far back as the 1900's, coal tar extracts were used to make chemicals. And the technologies have long existed to heat coal until it turns to hydrogen and carbon monoxide gas, use the gases directly to make ammonia for fertilizer, or liquefy them to use as building blocks for plastics. 
 But when natural gas was selling for $2 per million cubic feet, and oil was $10 a barrel, using gasified coal, which costs about $4 per million cubic feet, made no sense. Now, with gas prices still above $7 per million cubic feet and oil prices at more than $70 a barrel, it does.
 According to the American Chemistry Council, the industry's cost for feedstocks hit $40.12 billion last year, up from $34 billion in 2004, $25.1 billion in 2003 -- and triple the $12.8 billion in 1999. 
 Feedstocks amounted to nearly 19 percent of the cost of the $213.75 billion in products the chemical industry shipped last year -- up from 17.5 percent in 2004, 14.5 percent in 2003 and just 8 percent in 1999. For companies that make feedstock-intensive products like ethylene or propylene, two building blocks for plastics, the percentage could be double that.
 ''It may take three or four years to fine-tune the processes and build the plants, but coal could possibly be the primary feedstock down the road,'' said William R. Young, an analyst at Credit Suisse. 
 In fact, it already is in countries like South Africa, where coal is plentiful and oil and gas are scarce. Sasol, based in Johannesburg, has been making and selling coal-based feedstocks for many years. 
 Several Chinese companies already use coal to make vinyl chloride monomer, a precursor to the polyvinyl chloride used to make construction products like pipes. Andrew Wood, the editor of Chemical Week magazine, said that numerous American and European companies would open plants in China to make other chemicals from coal, too. ''No one's made real commitments yet, but it is clear that this is very much the beginning of a wave,'' he said. 
 Manufacturers are preparing themselves for an onslaught of orders for coal gasification equipment. General Electric, which bought ChevronTexaco's coal gasification business in July 2004, expects to get most of its profits from projects that use coal gas for generating electricity. ''But in the near term, turning coal to chemicals offers the most significant opportunities,'' said Edward C. Lowe, general manager of gasification for GE Energy. 
 Mr. Lowe said G.E. had licensed its gasification technology to five large Chinese companies, and was getting ''considerable interest'' from American companies. G.E.'s involvement is in itself drumming up interest, said Owen A. Kean of the American Chemistry Council. 
 ''When G.E. embraces a technology, it provides yet another form of credibility,'' he said. 
 Coal is certainly available. According to the World Energy Council, the United States had recoverable reserves in 2004 of about 254.4 billion tons; China has 114.5 billion tons. ''Coal and renewables like corn are probably the only natural resources we won't run out of,'' said Edward S. Glatzer of Nexant, a chemical industry consulting firm.
 Miners, meanwhile, are taking a fresh look at old mines. International Coal owns a large stock of low-grade coal reserves in Indiana and Illinois that had not previously been economical to mine. Wilbur L. Ross Jr., the company's chairman, said he was exploring whether to gasify those reserves for use as feedstock. 
 ''We've got a whole bunch of pipelines within 30 miles of the mines in each direction, and as long as natural gas stays above $6.50, the math works very well,'' he said.
 Even in the unlikely event that natural gas prices drop, gas shortages may still work in coal's favor. Agrium, the Canadian fertilizer company, has a huge ammonia plant in Kenai, Alaska, that is operating at half capacity because of gas shortages. Agrium will decide by this summer whether to invest close to $1 billion to install equipment to convert coal to feedstock and fuel, as well as capturing carbon dioxide that it could sell. 
 ''There's enough coal nearby to operate this complex for more than 50 years,'' said Lisa Parker, a specialist in government and community relations for Agrium US.
 But coal is catching on even in areas where gas is plentiful. Eastman Chemical, once a part of Eastman Kodak, already derives 20 percent of its raw materials from coal in the United States, and in September, Gregory O. Nelson, its executive vice president, told analysts, ''We're asking ourselves, 'What if we could bring 30 percent to 40 percent of our raw material base from coal?' '' 
 David N. Weidman, chief executive of Celanese, a chemical company based in Dallas, is asking similar questions. ''Coal is easy to access, it's in politically stable regions, and the technologies exist to eradicate environmental impacts,'' he said. ''It's been an underappreciated feedstock for much too long.''
 It is more expensive to turn coal into a substitute for oil than for gas, but companies that use oil as feedstock are taking a closer look at coal. 
 ''Crude oil still seems the most practical raw material for us, but we certainly are staying abreast of any technologies that could change the economics of our products,'' said Barry A. Phillips of Bayer Material Science, which makes plastics.
 BASF, the world's largest chemical company, has committed $121 million over the next two years to research alternative raw materials, ''and yes, coal is on the list,'' said John Maurer, a BASF spokesman. 
 For now, though, most chemical companies are piggybacking experiments with coal on their strategies for penetrating emerging markets. 
 Dow Chemical and Shenhua, China's largest state-run coal producer, are discussing whether to jointly build a plant that would use coal to make ethylene and polypropylene. Celanese is building plants in Nanjing, just north of Shanghai, that will use coal-derived feedstocks to make acetic acid, used in such products as cigarette filters. James S. Alder Jr., vice president for operations, does not rule out the idea of eventually converting the company's American plants to coal, too. 
 ''Coal is a viable long-term feedstock,'' he said. ''That's true for China, for the U.S., for any place with an abundant coal supply.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 29, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on April 18 about chemical companies that use coal as a substitute for oil or natural gas misstated the pricing for gas and gasified coal. Natural gas, which used to sell for $2 per million B.T.U.'s, now sells for more than $7 per million B.T.U.'s, not per million cubic feet. Gasified coal costs about $4 per million B.T.U.'s, not $4 per million cubic feet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICALS (96%); CHEMICALS MFG (95%); CHEMICALS TRADE (90%); FERTILIZERS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ALIPHATICS (89%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (89%); PLASTICS (87%); COAL GASIFICATION (79%); COAL PRICES (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (79%); ETHYLENE (78%); PROPYLENE (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); POLYVINYL CHLORIDE (77%); CHEMISTRY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (74%); ENERGY REGULATION (74%); COAL TAR (74%); CARBON MONOXIDE (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (59%); EXECUTIVES (55%) Coal; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Law and Legislation; Chemicals; Coal

COMPANY: DOW CHEMICAL CO (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (51%)

ORGANIZATION: American Chemical Council; Dow Chemical Co

TICKER: DOW (SWX) (58%); DOW (NYSE) (58%); DOW (LSE) (58%); 4850 (TSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (51%); CS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%)

PERSON: ANDREW N LIVERIS (74%) Claudia H Deutsch; Andrew N Liveris

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (73%) United States

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2006



398 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: Earnings Jump 68% at Schwab 

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The Charles Schwab Corporation, the brokerage firm, said yesterday that its first-quarter profit surged 68 percent, helped by strong inflows of client assets, growth in new accounts and increased trading activity. 
 Shares of Schwab fell 25 cents, to $17.34, however, as revenue growth fell short of some forecasts and March results showed a slowdown in trading.
Schwab, based in San Francisco, reported net income of $243 million, or 19 cents a share, compared with $145 million, or 11 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. 
 Excluding $25 million in pretax charges related to 200 back-office job cuts, analysts said earnings were 20 cents a share.
 Revenue rose 21 percent, to $1.28 billion, fueled by increased customer trading, asset management fees and income from the company's portfolio of loans and investments.
 The results were in line with the company's forecasts last month and with the average analyst forecast of 19 cents a share, though some analysts expected revenue to be higher.
 ''The quarter was right in line with our expectations, but March was probably a bit softer, and could represent the same rollover that we saw in previous years when business started to dip in the spring following peak activity in the winter,'' David Trone, an analyst at Fox-Pitt, Kelton, said in a research note.
 Trades increased 20 percent from the fourth quarter, to an average 275,000 a day, though revenue per trade slipped 2 percent, to $13.39, reflecting lower commissions.
 Still, it was the company's best quarterly results since the founder and chairman, Charles R. Schwab, retook control of the company in 2004 as chief executive, leading the firm's recovery from the bursting dot-com bubble.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles Schwab reported its best results since 2004, but shares fell. (Photo by Dima Gavrysh/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); BONDS (73%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%) Company Reports ; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (94%); FOX-PITT KELTON INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Schwab, Charles, Corp

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%)

PERSON: CHARLES R SCHWAB (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2006



399 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1785 words

HEADLINE: Academia Dissects the Service Sector, but Is It a Science?

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
On his Asian trip last month, President Bush urged Americans not to fear the rise toward prosperity of emerging economies like India. Education, Mr. Bush said, was the best response to globalization, climbing further up the ladder of skills to ''fill the jobs of the 21st century.''
 But a ladder to where? That is, where are educated young Americans likely to find good jobs that will not be shipped off to India or China?
The answer, according to a growing number of universities, corporations and government agencies, is in what is being called ''services science.'' The hybrid field seeks to use technology, management, mathematics and engineering expertise to improve the performance of service businesses like transportation, retailing and health care -- as well as service functions like marketing, design and customer service that are also crucial in manufacturing industries. 
 A couple of dozen universities -- including the University of California, Berkeley; Arizona State; Stanford; North Carolina State; Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute; and Georgia Tech -- are experimenting with courses or research programs in the field. 
 The push for services science is partly a game of catch-up -- a belated recognition that services now employ more than 75 percent of American workers and that education, research and policy should reflect the shift. ''Services is a drastically understudied field,'' said Matthew Realff, director of a new program at the National Science Foundation to finance university research in the field. ''We need a revolution in services.''
 Kurt Koester, a 24-year-old graduate student in engineering at Berkeley, is eager to take part. Yet engineering alone, he observes, can often be outsourced to lower-cost economies overseas.
 Mr. Koester's special interest is biomedical engineering, which combines engineering and biology. He is also taking the services science course at the Haas School of Business at Berkeley. He figures it will someday help him manage teams of technologists, spot innovations and new markets, and blend products and services. 
 ''I love engineering, but I want a much broader and more diverse background,'' he said. ''Hopefully, that will be my competitive advantage.''
 His personal strategy, according to economists, is the best way to prepare for an increasingly global labor market.
 ''This is how you address the global challenge,'' said Jerry Sheehan, a senior economist at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. ''You have to move up to do more complex, higher-value work.''
 Representatives from several technology companies, including I.B.M., Accenture, Electronic Data Systems and Hewlett-Packard, and a few universities and government agencies met in Washington in December to discuss how to raise interest in services science. 
 A further step is a conference on education in services science being held at the National Academy of Sciences today.
 Whether services science will ever become a full-fledged academic discipline with departments of its own is uncertain. So far it mainly consists of graduate-level courses and research by professors, though Berkeley will begin a certificate program in the field this fall for graduate students in the schools of engineering, business and information and management systems.
 The melding of fields in services science is sure to be tricky. Scientists and engineers tend to regard what is taught in business schools as a mushy combination of anecdotes, success stories and platitudes, wrapped in jargon. Put a few success stories together, and they become a ''best practice.''
 Yet a similar skepticism greeted computing decades ago. When some advocates started promoting the idea of ''computer science,'' traditionalists sneered that any course of study that had to add the term ''science'' to its name was not a science.
 Eventually, computing won over the skeptics. And today, computer science departments are academic fixtures.
 I.B.M. was an early champion of computer science, and it is now a leading corporate proponent of services science, sponsoring workshops, awarding research grants and helping develop course materials.
 I.B.M. itself is a striking example of the shift toward services over the last decade or two. Once known as a computer maker, the company now gets half its revenue from services. And increasingly, I.B.M. is moving into sophisticated technology services, by working with corporate customers to automate and streamline business tasks like purchasing, human relations and customer relations programs.
 In recent years, I.B.M. has shopped the global labor market, expanding significantly in India, especially for software programming work. But it has also reoriented and retrained its existing work force to support the swing to services.
 The researchers in its laboratories were dubious at first. ''The response here was there is no science in services,'' recalled Paul M. Horn, the senior vice president in charge of the I.B.M. labs. ''But as people got into it, they got excited by working on the fascinating problems in services.''
 Baruch Schieber, 48, is one of the converts. After joining I.B.M. in 1987, Mr. Schieber did basic research and published articles in scholarly journals, mostly on algorithms that optimize computing calculations. Yet the math techniques used to make work flow efficiently through a computer -- a complex system -- can be applied to other complex systems in business. That is what Mr. Schieber did, first in manufacturing and later in services.
 One recent assignment had Mr. Schieber studying drivers and dispatchers at Boston Coach, a limousine service that operates in 10 cities. His job was to create a computerized optimization system to make sure the company's vehicles and drivers in Boston and New York, where the company handles more than 1,000 rides a day, were used as much as possible.
 The system gathered real-time data on car locations, reservations, travel times, traffic patterns, airport conditions and flight times, and it generated recommendations to the dispatchers about which car and driver to send for each ride. As a result, the amount of time the cars had passengers rose 20 percent, and revenue increased 10 percent.
 Today, Mr. Schieber is working on a project for the National Wildfire Coordinating Group, a team with representatives from five federal agencies including the Forest Service. His task is to use computer models to help determine where to station limited manpower and equipment around the country to minimize the destruction from forest fires. His models use data on terrain, vegetation, wind, rainfall, public records of fires, and other variables.
 Across the spectrum of services, Mr. Schieber sees plenty of opportunity to apply his skills. ''There's just so much room for optimization,'' he observed.
 The service sector, to be sure, is huge and diverse. There are lots of service workers in low-wage jobs, from fast-food servers to janitors. Services science will have scant effect on them. Their incomes are limited by their lack of marketable skills, not by global competition. Those kinds of local service jobs are not migrating offshore.
 An accumulation of technological advances is behind the growing interest in services science. High-speed Internet access, low-cost computing, wireless networks, electronic sensors and ever-smarter software are the tools for building a ''globalized services economy,'' said Anatole Gershman, director of research at Accenture Technology Labs. ''That's what is new here.''
 The current wave of technology, according to Mr. Gershman, is the digital equivalent of national railways and electric motors in the 19th century. They paved the way for new companies, among them national retailers like Sears, and new kinds of industrial organization, like assembly-line mass production.
 He points to projects his company is doing as examples of services made possible by new technology. In transportation, networked sensors and analytic software are being used to diagnose the condition of engines. The goal is to make the mechanical upkeep of vehicles like jets and municipal buses more intelligent, shifting from regimented maintenance schedules to as-needed maintenance, which can reduce repair and maintenance costs by 50 percent, he said.
 In health care, Mr. Gershman said, it should be possible to use tiny implants to monitor a person's biological functions, whisk reports wirelessly to personalized databases, automatically analyze the results and send alerts and updates to patients and doctors.
 ''Just what will be done with this technology we don't know,'' Mr. Gershman said. ''But the significant thing is that we now have the underpinnings for the construction of new services.''
 Traditional service functions like marketing and customer service are also being transformed by information technology. The rapid growth of the Web and e-commerce has brought an explosion in the quantity of customer and market data, and a computerized means for tracking consumer behavior.
 Today, marketing researchers routinely use analytic and modeling software tools to test hypotheses against statistics from customer databases, polling, economics and sociological studies. ''It's really made the field much more scientific,'' said Mary Jo Bitner, academic director of the Center for Services Leadership at Arizona State University.
 Even in manufacturing, the competitive edge of many American companies lies in the intangible realm of service work. Look at the iPod. Apple Computer farms out the manufacturing of its popular music player to subcontractors in Asia. But Apple designed the iPod and wrote the software for easily finding, storing and playing music. It built the iPod brand, and guided its advertising and marketing. In short, Apple keeps for itself the most intellectually challenging, creative work, which adds the most value and pays the highest wages.
 The high-end work, experts say, typically taps several disciplines and requires conceptual thinking and pattern recognition. Such work cannot be easily reduced to a simple step-by-step recipe. ''Those are the jobs that are very hard to automate or ship to India,'' said Frank Levy, a labor economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
 Services science is an attempt to give university students a broader set of skills and adopt a broader research agenda for the economy of the future. ''We in academia have to find ways to contribute research to improving our economic performance in services and to help students succeed in this knowledge-based services economy,'' said Henry Chesbrough, who is teaching the services science course at Berkeley.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Baruch Schieber, a computer science researcher at I.B.M., discovered that the algorithms he used to optimize computing calculations could also be applied to the limousine business and fighting wildfires. (Photo by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)
Kurt Koester, a Berkeley student, is complementing his engineering studies with a course in services science. (Photo by Noah Berger for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Graph: ''The Service Economy''Over the last few decades, the service sector has increasingly dominated the U.S. economy. It has also been the source of most new jobs, as industries like health care, consulting, retail and food services have grown rapidly.Graph tracks jobs and share of the economy since 1980. (Sources by Moody's Economy.com
Bureau of Economic Analysis
 Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENGINEERING (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); SCIENCE FUNDING (75%); BIOMEDICINE (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (68%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (68%) Service Industries ; Labor; Mathematics; Hiring and Promotion; Engineering and Engineers; Service Industries ; Colleges and Universities; Research

COMPANY: ACCENTURE PLC (57%); HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (57%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY (83%); ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (54%) University of California; Arizona State University; North Carolina State University; Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute; Georgia Tech (Georgia Institute of Technology)

TICKER: ACN (NYSE) (57%); HPQ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (57%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2006



400 of 680 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Overrules 2 Aides Seeking Food Stamp Shift 

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN; Diane Cardwell contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg took the rare step yesterday of overruling his own top two social service officials, deciding not to pursue a federal waiver that would make it easier for able-bodied childless adults to receive food stamps. 
 A statement issued by one of those officials, Deputy Mayor Linda I. Gibbs, said the city was taking the action ''because we believe that every New Yorker who can work should work.'' She said the city would ''continue to monitor this population closely and may consider seeking a waiver next year.'' 
Ms. Gibbs and the commissioner of the city's Human Resources Administration, Verna Eggleston, had approved the waiver request, which would have allowed some able-bodied adults ages 18 to 49 to receive food stamps for longer than the normal federal limit of three months in any three-year period.
 Administration officials said last night that the mayor ultimately had to sign off on the policy anyway. ''The city was exploring its options and didn't need to make a final decision on whether to seek the waiver until the end of the month, so it was premature for anyone to assume which option the city would ultimately choose,'' said Paul Elliott, a spokesman for the mayor.
 In explaining the administration's decision not to seek the waiver, Ms. Gibbs said in a statement, ''This potential policy change is not consistent with the mayor's goal of helping New Yorkers become self-sufficient.'' 
 The mayor's move was not only a highly unusual public decision to overrule a city department's actions, but also something of an embarrassment for Ms. Gibbs, who was promoted to deputy mayor for human and health services in January after running the Department of Homeless Services, and for Ms. Eggleston, who has led the Human Resources Administration since Mr. Bloomberg took office in 2002.
 The rare public override appears to have been an unintended result of the unusual autonomy Mr. Bloomberg grants to his deputies and commissioners, who in this case began pursuing a policy shift before the mayor had signed on. 
 The city had said it ''will accept the federal waiver'' -- which is used by many large cities across the country and several in New York State, like Buffalo and Rochester -- on March 28 in a letter from Ms. Eggleston to the commissioner of the State Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance, Robert Doar. The New York Times yesterday reported the decision to seek the waiver.
 When Ms. Eggleston wrote the letter in March, Ms. Gibbs had not yet briefed the mayor or obtained his approval. Indeed, a city official said last night that Ms. Gibbs did not realize until the middle of last week that the letter had gone out, and that she was still preparing a policy briefing for the mayor.
 Ms. Eggleston's letter and the state's response to it ''were not binding communications,'' Mr. Elliott added.
 The decision stunned advocates for the needy, who had been pressing for more-generous food stamp policies since the mayoralty of Mr. Bloomberg's predecessor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, who opposed most public assistance programs under the argument that they discouraged work and subsidized dependence. 
 ''It looked like we were departing from the Giuliani era's stinginess and cruelty when it came to dealing with poor people,'' said Douglas Lasdon, executive director of the Urban Justice Center, a nonprofit law firm that sued the city, under both mayors, over food stamp rules and procedures. ''This has not been an administration that has bowed to the political winds. It is a bit petty and odd.'' 
 Councilman Bill de Blasio, a Brooklyn Democrat who is chairman of the General Welfare Committee, said he would hold hearings and try to change the mayor's mind. ''It's a huge mistake,'' he said. ''We have a growing hunger and poverty problem and we need this waiver. This has caught everyone off guard.''
 Unlike Mr. Giuliani's welfare policies, which converted welfare offices into job centers, placed recipients in jobs raking leaves and significantly tightened eligibility for cash assistance, the waiver would only have affected a small fraction of the 1.1 million city residents who receive food stamps. 
 About 43,000 able-bodied adults without dependents now use food stamps, and the waiver would have made about 13,900 more such adults eligible, according to city estimates.
 Councilman Eric N. Gioia, a Queens Democrat, and Representative Anthony D. Weiner, a Democrat from Queens and Brooklyn, both said they feared that the controversy would overshadow an even-larger issue: the roughly 600,000 residents who are eligible for food stamps but do not receive them.
 ''The substance of this issue has always been clear -- that the right thing to do is to apply for the waiver and allow people to get help at no cost to city taxpayers,'' Mr. Weiner said yesterday, only an hour after his office had released a statement praising the mayor for seeking the waiver. ''I guess the mayor was persuaded that the politics of looking tough is imperative, and that's a shame.''
 While the federal welfare overhaul of 1996 imposed the three-month limit on food stamp use by able-bodied jobless adults without children, it also allowed states to seek waivers of the time limit for residents in areas of relatively high unemployment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (79%); APPROVALS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (69%); HOMELESSNESS (50%) Welfare (US); Food Stamps; Welfare (US)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%) Sewell Chan; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Linda I (Deputy Mayor) Gibbs; Verna (Comr) Eggleston

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2006

 
