

401 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: Campaigning for Friends As Much as for Sales

BYLINE: By ANDREW ADAM NEWMAN

 BODY:
DURING the economic downturn, many brands turned to nostalgia marketing to strike a reassuring chord, like General Mills selling Trix and other varieties in retro boxes, Nationwide Insurance resurrecting its ''Nationwide is on your side'' slogan and Bumble Bee Tuna reviving its ''Yum, yum, Bumble Bee'' jingle.
Little Debbie, the 50-year-old snack cake brand, is also evoking happier times, but it is tapping consumers to do the reminiscing. On its Facebook page on Nov. 2, for example, the brand asked its nearly 600,000 followers for ''Little Debbie traditions,'' and nearly 200 posted responses, most that day. 
''This might sound a little 'different,' but if we ever had trouble getting my Grandaddy to eat, all we had to give him was a Little Debbie Oatmeal cake -- that he would ALWAYS eat,'' wrote Kim Bracey Dayvault on Facebook. ''So when he passed, we put one in his coat pocket to take to heaven with him!''
It is difficult to measure whether such anecdotes result in more sales of Oatmeal Creme Pies, the concoction with oatmeal cookies and white filling, but that is beside the point, said Barry Anthony, director of marketing for McKee Foods.
''It's more about building relationships with consumers than trying to drive sales at this point,'' Mr. Anthony said. ''We're thinking about Facebook as rich territory for developing future campaigns and for general ideation for all sorts for brand activities.''
Now a new advertising and social marketing campaign for Little Debbie, all by Luckie & Company, Birmingham, Ala., also has a goal beyond just increasing sales, namely to nearly double the ranks of Facebook followers, to more than one million.
In a new commercial, boxes of Little Debbie products descend from the sky on small parachutes and into the hands of pedestrians.
''We're on a mission to make a million people smile, so we're sharing our fresh-tasting snack cakes with as many people as possible,'' says an actor near an Airstream trailer emblazoned with the Little Debbie logo.
That mission entails, over the next eight months, a 20-city tour, including New York, Philadelphia and Los Angeles, where consumers will board the Airstream for free samples and pose for a snapshot. Those individual photos will become part of a growing online mosaic portrait of the Little Debbie logo, a redhaired girl wearing a cowboy hat. When the entire logo is viewed on computer screens, individual snapshots are tiny tinted pixels, but zooming in makes the snapshots discernible.
Photos also can be uploaded through Facebook, where by signing on as followers, consumers can enter a contest to win the Airstream, a 16-foot-long model valued at $34,000. The campaign is called the Million Smile Mission, underscoring the goals of surpassing both a million portraits and followers.
In a similar campaign last year to promote new chocolate cupcakes, Little Debbie wrapped a Smart car to resemble a cupcake to appear at product-sampling stops nationwide, then gave it away. The campaign, which also was advertised on Facebook, increased the fan base from about 5,000 to more than 500,000.
When pages on the social network garner more than 10,000 viewers, Facebook provides data about the number of times posts are viewed, and David Griner, a social media strategist at Luckie, drills into that data.
''When we post something at 9 o'clock at night, it performs really well because it hits a good cross-section of our fan base, like moms that have put kids down and go online,'' Mr. Griner said. ''And younger folks in their 20s are really active around that time, too.''
Little Debbie appears to have the most ambitious social network marketing strategy in the snack-cake category, dwarfing the Hostess Twinkies Facebook page, which has 5,400 followers, and Entenmann's , which has 22,600.
Other food brands have drawn phenomenal interest on Facebook. Oreo, from Kraft, with more than 13 million followers, is the third most popular food brand, behind Starbucks, with 16.8 million, and Coca-Cola, with 16.7 million.
Little Debbie was introduced with a single product, the Oatmeal Creme Pie, in 1960, and now produces about 75 varieties, some seasonal. The best seller is the Swiss Cake Roll, followed by the Oatmeal Creme Pie and Honey Buns, according to the company.
O. D. McKee, a co-founder of McKee Foods, named the brand for his granddaughter, Debbie McKee, the redhaired girl still featured on packages. (Today that girl, Debra E. McKee-Fowler, is an executive vice president at the company.)
McKee Foods, a privately held company, reports annual revenue of $1.2 billion, though it does not report revenue for Little Debbie specifically. Its other brands include Sunbelt and Heartland, both of which make granola and cereal bars.
Snack cakes are consumed by 51.2 percent of Americans, with Little Debbie varieties combined consumed by 28.4 percent of the population, Hostess Cupcakes by 11.7 percent, and Hostess Twinkies by 10.7 percent, according to Simmons Market Research Bureau data from 2005.
Little Debbie spent $2.95 million on advertising in 2009, compared with $4.6 million by Hostess, according to the Kantar Media unit of WPP.
Mr. Anthony, the marketing director, who began as a forklift operator at the company when he was in college 36 years ago, said that while Little Debbie snacks are popular to pack in children's lunchboxes, they are consumed primarily by adults.
''Without giving out too much proprietary research, suffice it to say that it's a popular perception that children are the biggest consumers of sweet snacks like these, but it's not true in our case,'' he said.
Evidence of such adult devotion was made plain on Nov. 2, when Jeri Morris-Long wrote this on the Little Debbie Facebook page: ''You are not going to believe this but I have eaten a Little Debbie Nutty Bar that is frozen every morning for breakfast for at least 30 years.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 12, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Advertising column on Thursday, about a new marketing campaign for Little Debbie snack cakes, misstated part of the name of the campaign. It is the Million Smile Mission, not Million Mile Mission.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A commercial for Little Debbie snack cakes, meant to build interest in a 20-city tour to promote the brand. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); BAKED GOODS (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%)

COMPANY: NATIONWIDE MUTUAL INSURANCE CO (58%); GENERAL MILLS INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (57%)

TICKER: GIS (NYSE) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (58%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (58%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (58%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (58%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); ALABAMA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



402 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Giving; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Foundations With a Limited Life

BYLINE: By DEBORAH L. JACOBS

 BODY:
TRADITIONALLY people who set up private foundations -- either during their lifetimes or through an estate plan -- envisioned an entity that would carry on their philanthropy for generations. But lately, some founders or their immediate successors are spending their full endowments and closing down. Other donors are creating new foundations with a limited life span.
What brought about these changes? Endowments were battered by the recent financial crisis. And for some founders, the administrative burden and cost of running a foundation have come to outweigh the initial thrill of giving like a Carnegie. 
Demographics are also at play. Baby boomers don't presume, as past generations did, that their offspring will share their charitable interests. They are also more realistic than past generations about the difficulties of getting children and grandchildren, who are scattered geographically and may have differing interests, to work together toward a charitable goal.
And more prominent philanthropists have been outspoken advocates of giving while living. Through their own actions they have shown how foundations that frontload their grants can address urgent problems today.
The Atlantic Philanthropies, founded by Charles F. Feeney, a founder of the Duty Free Shoppers Group, plans to spend its assets and close by 2020. Its latest report, ''Turning Passion Into Action: Giving While Living,'' published in June, profiles other philanthropists who have already taken that step, or intend to. They include Bill and Melinda Gates, whose foundation plans to close within 50 years after its current trustees die.
Another, lesser known, example is Tim Gill, the software entrepreneur who founded the desktop publishing company Quark. The Gill Foundation, which he started in 1994, is scheduled to end 20 years after his death. And John Hunting, who inherited substantial shares in Steelcase, the office furniture company, and started the Beldon Fund in 1982, later decided to end it. In 1998, he devised a 10-year plan for dispersing the foundation's assets before closing it last year. He redesigned the foundation's Web site (www.beldon.org) to offer guidance to other foundations that want to follow suit.
Still, Richard L. Fox, a lawyer with Dilworth Paxson in Philadelphia and author of ''Charitable Giving: Taxation, Planning and Strategies'' (Thomson Reuters, 2010), hardly sees a groundswell of short-lived private foundations. Most families that retain him to set up these entities want something far more permanent.
Yet, he said, he appreciated the appeal of limited-life foundations: less worry about mission drift -- that grants will stray from the donor's intent with each succeeding generation -- and the possibility that control over the foundation might someday shift to people outside the family.
The Foundation Center, with the Council on Foundations, has tried to chart patterns from those that have closed. Their 2009 report, ''Perpetuity or Limited Lifespan: How Do Family Foundations Decide?'' based on answers from 1,074 family foundations, showed that 12 percent of foundations surveyed planned to have a limited life span; 25 percent were undecided.
Both groups were dominated by foundations set up during the last 20 years and whose founder was still alive, rather than a situation where heirs were wrestling with how to carry out a relative's wishes. Typically, the study showed, the decision to limit a foundation's life span was not made at its founding, but later. Of those that decided to shut, most made the decision in 2007 or 2008, the researchers found.
For the Quixote Foundation, based in Seattle, the decision to shut was part of a strategic plan that followed the death of its founder, Stuart Hanisch, in 2002. His son Erik and daughter-in-law Lenore, who run the operation, intend to spend seven more years on that endeavor, giving the foundation a life span of 20 years.
The endowment, which stands at about $14.8 million, has been used to finance projects involving environmental issues, election integrity and media reform, among other things. ''All of these seemed to need more effort -- there was a sense of urgency'' and the chance to shape future policies, said Erik Hanisch.
Harriet Barlow, a trustee of the Harold K. Hochschild Foundation, which plans to shut in two years, says that money used to build an endowment is, in effect, out of circulation and ''is not nearly as effective in sustaining the common good as money that's in circulation.''
While shutting a foundation tends to be an afterthought for most philanthropists, Victoria B. Bjorklund, a lawyer with Simpson Thacher & Bartlett in New York, encourages clients to think about the issue when they create their foundations.
They might want the entity to end when a specific event occurs, perhaps when the last of the founders dies, and to specify where the money will go if it does shut. The simplest way for a private foundation to close is to give all the money to a public charity, said David Scott Sloan, a lawyer with Holland & Knight in Boston. The recipient may be a single institution, like a hospital or school.
Mr. Hunting of the Beldon Fund wanted ''to make sure that grantees weren't left dangling in the wind'' and took measures to help nonprofits that had become dependent on his grants raise money from different sources. He has offered matching grants, as well as money to help train staff as fund-raisers. He also granted a one-year salary subsidy so an organization could hire a new executive director who was especially good at raising money.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 12, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article in the special Giving section on Thursday about philanthropic foundations that are closing or have limited life spans referred incorrectly to ''Turning Passion Into Action: Giving While Living,'' a report by the Atlantic Philanthropies. It is the foundation's latest report, published in June; it is not its latest annual report.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ALL IN THE TIMING: John Hunting started the Beldon Fund in 1982, but in 1998 he devised a 10-year plan to wind it down. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM BIRD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOUNDATIONS (91%); CHARITIES (91%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); BABY BOOMERS (77%); FAMILY (76%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); CHARITABLE GIVING (72%); PUBLISHING (65%); WRITERS (65%); DESKTOP PUBLISHING (64%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (64%); OFFICE FURNITURE MFG (63%); OFFICE FURNITURE (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (56%)

COMPANY: STEELCASE INC (53%); FOUNDATION CENTER (50%)

TICKER: SCS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS337215 SHOWCASE, PARTITION, SHELVING & LOCKER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS337214 OFFICE FURNITURE (EXCEPT WOOD) MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS337211 WOOD OFFICE FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (57%); MELINDA GATES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



403 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: The Risk-Taking Edge Of West Coast Women

BYLINE: By PAMELA RYCKMAN

 BODY:
When Deborah Perry Piscione moved to Silicon Valley after a career in media and foreign relations on the East Coast, it wasn't the weather or wealth that amazed her. It was the women.
''Back east, my whole network was men,'' she said, ''but here there's this big group of incredible, fearless women. They rise a lot more quickly in their careers, and they support each other. They've made their own money and they take risks. There's such a disconnect between the two coasts.''
On the West Coast, Ms. Perry Piscione made contacts through a series of influential women and, within 18 months of her arrival, raised $5 million from a single female investor to become co-founder of a production company, Desha Productions, and its accompanying Web site, BettyConfidential.com, an online magazine for women. 
Ms. Perry Piscione sees West Coast businesswomen opening their Rolodexes and, perhaps more important, their wallets for one another, and she says she believes their East Coast counterparts have something to learn. ''There are all of these women who made tons of money and now are not doing anything with it,'' she said. East Coast women may have attended top business schools and reached the apex of corporate America, but Ms. Perry Piscione said, ''they're not making their mark.'' They are losing relevance, she said, in the ''new economy.''
With that in mind, she has joined with Janet Hanson, the former Goldman Sachs and Lehman Brothers executive who founded 85 Broads, a global network of professional women, to organize what they are calling ''Alley to the Valley,'' an invitation-only event this week for 50 women. Twenty-five self-made women from the East Coast, many with net worths of more than $100 million, are traveling to the Rosewood Hotel on Sand Hill Road in Menlo Park, Calif., the heart of Silicon Valley, to meet with 25 of their West Coast counterparts and talk about thinking and investing more entrepreneurially. The event begins Thursday night with a kickoff dinner at the Atherton, Calif., home of Linda Law, the founding partner of Law & Associates, a real estate development company, and an active investor in start-ups.
Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer of Facebook, will deliver the keynote speech to a group that is expected to include Theresia Gouw Ranzetta, a partner at Accel Partners, and Sue Siegel, a partner at Mohr Davidow Ventures, both of whom were entrepreneurs before becoming venture capitalists. Among those Ms. Hanson has invited from the East Coast are Barbara Byrne, who is a vice chairwoman of Barclays Capital and was vice chairwoman of Lehman Brothers; Maria Cirino, who was a successful serial entrepreneur before becoming a co-founder of .406 Ventures in Boston; and Pauline Brown, who recently resigned as a managing director at the Carlyle Group, a private equity firm, to pursue entrepreneurial and socially oriented projects. No men will be allowed in the room.
''We're bringing together some of the most successful, financially independent women in the world and asking them to calculate a solution for female entrepreneurs today,'' Ms. Perry Piscione said. While women are starting businesses at unprecedented rates, she said, too few are high-growth businesses and too few attract venture capital. ''Alley to the Valley'' organizers want to increase access to investment funds for female entrepreneurs and introduce prominent East Coast women to what they believe is a huge money-making opportunity.
''East Coast women will meet serious investors who will share their networks,'' Ms. Perry Piscione said. ''Maybe they'll become angels or superangels. Maybe they'll structure their own funds. We're providing the entry point to learn about entrepreneurship and put their money to work in a different way.''
The event will take place in the Rosewood ballroom, where all 50 women will sit facing one another around a U-shaped table. Attendees have paid $1,500, not including the cost of the hotel and airfare, to take part in discussions on topics like finding innovative ways to back entrepreneurs, managing multiple angel investments, and avoiding the biggest mistakes female entrepreneurs make. A few entrepreneurs -- including Christina Brodbeck, who was a founding team member at YouTube before becoming co-founder of TheIceBreak, a coming Web and mobile game that helps users develop relationships -- will recount their experiences and advise on how entrepreneurs and investors can collaborate.
If Silicon Valley women will be the masters of this gathering, they say they believe it is because they understand intimately both the substantial risks and spectacular benefits of creating new enterprises. Their entrepreneurial ecosystem has enabled women to attain wealth and clout early in their careers, they believe, and consequently they are more willing than East Coasters to gamble on start-ups.
''It's a culture of risk-taking,'' said Ms. Siegel, the venture capitalist. ''Entrepreneurship is so embedded here. It's what everyone talks about. If you don't participate, you're on the outside. When I did a counseling event at my son's school, every single junior in his high school class knew what a venture capitalist was.''
Conversely, many East Coast women are entrenched in the corporate realm and lack the networks and knowledge base to invest in new businesses, said Cindy Padnos, a former entrepreneur who is founding managing director of Illuminate Ventures, a venture capital firm in Oakland, Calif. Most Goldman Sachs partners are wildly successful, Ms. Padnos said, but they are rarely entrepreneurial. ''Most people coming out of the corporate model, even in finance, have no understanding of the high-tech business model,'' she said.
In addition, Ms. Hanson said, women who have succeeded on the more corporate East Coast tend to be more fiscally conservative, perhaps because they have had to work longer, and sometimes harder, to make money. Many spent decades fighting for parity as the only woman in a particular department on Wall Street. ''It takes longer to make it in finance,'' Ms. Hanson said from her office in Greenwich, Conn. ''Compensation is still reasonably obscene here, but it's not a windfall, like if you were employee No. 5 or even 500 at Google. In that case, you're willing to back other start-ups because you see the enormous potential.''
East Coast women may be highly philanthropic, but otherwise ''their money is managed by outsiders,'' Ms. Hanson said. ''There's no passion around directing it. Instead of giving $100,000 to my favorite charities, maybe I should give $50,000 to charities and invest $50,000 in two start-ups I'm really excited about.''
The event is scheduled to conclude Friday evening with a call to action in which participants set goals and action steps to integrate East Coast women into West Coast investing networks and to improve market conditions for female entrepreneurs. In the coming year, Ms. Perry Piscione and Ms. Hanson plan to track dollars invested and deals done as a result of these new connections.
Despite the financial setbacks of the last three years, Ms. Hanson is betting that there are still many East Coast women with considerable capital who are ready to redeploy part of it. ''Rather than licking our wounds and wondering how much our 401(k)s are down today,'' she said, ''we need to do something new. We need to partner with the West Coast. It's a cultural, entrepreneurial revolution. It's the gold rush, and we want in.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Deborah Perry Piscione, founder of BettyConfidential.com, is hoping to draw East Coast women into venture capitalism. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); WOMEN (89%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (75%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (74%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); REAL ESTATE (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%); ACCEL MANAGEMENT CO INC (51%); MOHR DAVIDOW VENTURES (51%); FACEBOOK INC (51%); 406 VENTURES LLC (50%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (54%); FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (50%)

PERSON: SHERYL SANDBERG (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010



404 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: Obama Warns North Korea in Speech

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- In a Veterans Day speech at a United States Army base in central Seoul, President Obama said Thursday that America remains committed to defending South Korea, and warned North Korea that it faces continued isolation unless it fulfills its commitments to give up nuclear weapons. 
While Mr. Obama is in South Korea for a Group of 20 meeting on fixing the stricken global economy, relations with North Korea are also expected to be on the agenda, particularly in talks with the host nation. The United States and its allies are seeking ways to get North Korea to return to six-party talks aimed at convincing the North to drop its weapons program.
Mr. Obama will meet later Thursday with the South Korean president, Lee Myung-bak, whose country's relations with the North have become even more tense since the sinking in March of a South Korean warship, the Cheonan, apparently by a North Korean torpedo.
There are signs that there could be movement afoot as to the approach of the United States and its allies toward the reclusive regime of the North Korean dictator, Kim Jong-il. Earlier this week, Mr. Lee dropped demands that the North apologize for the Cheonan's sinking as a precondition of talks.
In a strongly worded statement made before thousands of soldiers and Marines gathered on a chilly morning, Mr. Obama called North Korea a starving nation whose economic failures were visible even from space, where at night ''the brilliant lights of Seoul'' can be seen giving way ''to the utter darkness of the North.''
''But there is another path available to North Korea,'' Mr. Obama said. ''If they choose to fulfill their international obligations and commitments to the international community, they will have the chance to offer their people lives of growing opportunity instead of crushing poverty.''
During the speech, Mr. Obama also honored the 37,000 Americans and far larger number of South Koreans who died fighting the North during the 1950-53 Korean War. He also led the audience in a standing ovation for 62 veterans of that war who attended the speech at the Yongsan base, in the center of this city of gleaming skyscrapers and modern highways.
''Gentlemen, we are honored by your presence,'' Mr. Obama said. ''We are grateful for your service. And the world is better off because of what you did here.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY BASES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); DISARMAMENT (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); LEE MYUNG-BAK (74%); KIM JONG IL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010



405 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
DISPUTES ON BEEF AND AUTOS
Hold Up Korean Trade Pact
Aides to President Obama and President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea were scrambling to reach agreement on a revised free-trade pact that they hoped would show their commitment to expand commerce ahead of the G-20 conference of leading nations. Negotiators were working furiously to resolve last-minute sticking points concerning South Korean imports of American beef and automobiles. PAGE A17
National 
AFTER HOLDING ONTO SEAT,
Reid Must Rally Democrats
The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, scraped his way to re-election last week. But with his Democratic caucus reduced, and Republicans set to take over the House, Senate Democrats will be instantly on the defensive, tasked with protecting their legislative accomplishments over the last two years. PAGE A22
COUNTING ALASKAN WRITE-INS
Election workers began sifting through more than 230,000 ballots cast in the Alaska Senate race, with an unanswered question: Will Senator Lisa Murkowski become the first write-in candidate elected to the Senate since 1954? PAGE 22
HONORING VIETNAM VETERANS
Several states have established a day to honor or ''welcome home'' Vietnam veterans. The recent outpouring of support, veterans and others said, stems in part from the public embrace of troops fighting in Afghanistan and Iraq. Many of today's troops return to heroes' welcomes, often captured by local news media. PAGE A20
GRANDPARENTS PICK UP SLACK
The economic recession continued to batter families this year, with the number of stay-at-home mothers declining and a sharp rise in the number of children living with their grandparents, according to a new Census Bureau report. PAGE A24
OVERRUNS FOR NEW TELESCOPE
A panel reported that the James Webb Space Telescope, the planned successor to the Hubble Space Telescope, designed to peer to the edges of the universe and beginning of time, is running about one-third over its $5 billion budget and more than a year behind schedule. PAGE A21
New York
STATE'S BLACK DEMOCRATS
Face Imminent Loss of Clout
Despite a sweep of statewide offfices by Democrats in last week's voting, what once seemed like a new golden age for the state's black political establishment could be on the verge of an abrupt collapse. PAGE A27
PICKING AN OUTSIDER
In choosing Cathleen P. Black as Joel I. Klein's successor as chancellor of New York's public schools, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg made a pointed choice to go outside the worlds of academia and education to take the idea of the outsider-chancellor to a new level. PAGE A32
Business
LAWSUITS CAST DOUBT
On Drugs' Wide Use
A civil trial in Manhattan is one of a handful of bellwether cases against Merck representing litigation involving about 1,400 people across the country who say they developed jawbone ailments after taking Fosamax, a drug used by millions of American women with thinning bones. Merck won an earlier case; but in another, a judge proposed to reduce a plaintiff's jury award. PAGE B1
DELAYS FOR DREAMLINER
Boeing halted test flightsof its 787 Dreamliner, a day after an onboard fire forced an emergency landing, reinforcing expectations that the long-awaited plane faces more delays. Analysts said they doubted that Boeing, which is counting on the jet to vault past Airbus in total sales, would meet its plan to deliver the first 787 by February. PAGE B1
F.C.C. INVESTIGATES GOOGLE
The Federal Communications Commission said that it was investigating whether Google had violated laws when it collected Wi-Fi data as part of its Street View photo project. News of the investigation, which has been under way since spring, came just two weeks after the Federal Trade Commission halted its own inquiry into the Google project without taking action. PAGE B2
GAP LOOKS TO CHINA
With sales in the United States sluggish, Gap Inc., one of America's best-known apparel brands, is joining the rush to enter China's fast-growing consumer market. PAGE B3
Sports
COWBOYS NEW COACH
Hopes to Salvage Season
Jason Garrett, the Cowboys' interim coach, oversaw his first practice after the firing of Wade Phillips, who was dismissed after the team's 1-7 start. PAGE B15
GIVING THE CAVALIERS HOPE
It has been four months since LeBron James broke hearts in Cleveland by fleeing to Miami. The quest to move on has been hastened by the Cavaliers' surprisingly solid start (4-3) and the thrill of watching J. J. Hickson, the Cleveland Cavaliers' stringy, pogo-stick forward, blossom. PAGE B15
Arts
TITLE INSURANCE CONCEPT
Spreads Into Art Sales
Though standard in real estate transactions, the concept of title insurance, which guarantees that a seller is the free and clear owner, has been resisted by the art world. But a major publicly traded insurance company, Argo Group, showed confidence in that fledgling market, announcing that it had bought ARIS, a small insurance firm that has been selling art title insurance since 2006. PAGE C1
AGENTS MOVE TO BROOKLYN
It used to be unthinkable that a decent literary agent would work anywhere but Manhattan. But many literary-agent refugees from Manhattan have crossed the East River, along with tiny boutique agencies that were founded in Brooklyn, not to mention the scores of writers, new independent bookstores and small but renowned publishers that are based there. PAGE C1
CHRONICLING WAR'S EFFECTS
Mike Hale writes that ''Wartorn: 1861-2010,'' an HBO documentary about post-traumatic stress disorder, sometimes starts to feel prim and preachy. But it also has its share of quietly devastating, haunting scenes, echoes of the nightmares that veterans are bringing home with them from Iraq and Afghanistan. PAGE C4
Home
INDOOR PLANTS
For the Inept
For many people who love houseplants but have a penchant for killing them off, the key to raising them is simply finding plants hardy enough to withstand abuse. PAGE E1
Thursday Styles
MARC JACOB'S PUSH
For Omnipresence
The designer Marc Jacobs has opened several stores in the West Village. Like most of Mr. Jacobs's ideas, the move was a superficially controversial one, and part of his push for ubiquity. Jon Caramanica, Critical Shopper. PAGE E1
Skin Deep E3
Op-ed
GAIL COLLINS PAGE A35
NICHOLAS KRISTOF PAGE A35

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); VETERANS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (86%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); BEEF (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); CHILDREN (74%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); GRANDPARENTS (71%); VIETNAM WAR (71%); FAMILY (69%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (67%); WAR & CONFLICT (66%); CENSUS (66%); BUDGETS (64%); LITIGATION (61%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); LEE MYUNG-BAK (73%); HARRY REID (70%); CATHLEEN BLACK (58%); LISA MURKOWSKI (54%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010



406 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: Deal to Reduce Trade Imbalances Expected, U.S. Says

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN and SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- Obama administration officials said Thursday that they were close to securing a compromise agreement to help reduce vast trade imbalances, a step that could ease conflict among the major world economies over commerce, currency and monetary policies.
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said he believed that the world's leading economies, which will meet in Seoul on Friday, would agree that they should monitor and seek to reduce acute trade surpluses or deficits that threaten economic and financial stability.
China and Germany, among others, sharply criticized an earlier American proposal to set numerical limits to such imbalances. The new compromise appears devised to eke out a modest agreement on principles that each country would adhere to voluntarily.
While the agreement is unlikely to lead to bold new steps by individual countries, Obama administration officials say an accord on broad goals may help calm fears that a flurry of recriminations over who is responsible for trade imbalances could lead to a competitive devaluations or trade war. 
''I think it overstates the level of disagreement about the challenges we have ahead,'' Mr. Geithner told reporters on the way from Singapore to Seoul for the Group of 20 summit meeting. ''We expect we'll see broad support for the type of cooperative framework the ministers of finance first introduced two weeks ago.''
A senior Obama administration official, speaking in Seoul, said the advance draft of a joint communique under consideration by the member nations would adopt a set of ''indicative guidelines'' that set common standards for assessing trade balances and prompting diplomatic discussions about them when they grow too large.
As with all Group of 20 communiques, this one relies on peer pressure and the perception of shared long-term interests; it is not legally binding. But the group plans to ratify calls for the International Monetary Fund to a play a stronger and more prominent role in monitoring the trade imbalances and, when necessary, publicizing them, a process that still must be worked out.
Word of the possible compromise came as American officials scrambled to cool tensions that had flared over the United States Federal Reserve's decision to pump $600 billion into the economy to stimulate growth, which China, Germany, Brazil and other major exporters fear is intended to push down the value of the dollar and give the United States an advantage in global trade.
President Obama, in a letter to the Group of 20 released Wednesday, appealed for calm, while also imploring other world leaders to shift global economic demand away from its historical reliance on American consumption and borrowing.
''We all now recognize that the foundation for a strong and durable recovery will not materialize if American households stop saving and go back to spending based on borrowing,'' Mr. Obama wrote. ''Yet no one country can achieve our joint objective of a strong, sustainable and balanced recovery on its own.''
In an opinion article for the Asian edition of The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Geithner, joined Tharman Shanmugaratnam, the finance minister of Singapore, and Wayne Swan, the treasurer of Australia, in warning that a ''two-track recovery will dominate the global economy for a long time to come'' and would require new forms of cooperation.
Together, Mr. Obama's letter and Mr. Geithner's article laid out a strategy that combined an appeal to reason, an avoidance of confrontation and more than a little humility. The benefit of their approach, they said, would be higher overall growth in the long term.
It remained to be seen how a vague commitment to reduce imbalances would affect China and Germany, which have the world's two most powerful surplus economies. Both countries rely on exports for much of their growth and have relatively low rates of consumption, while the United States has high consumption and runs a large trade deficit.
Mr. Obama's letter indirectly defended the Fed's move to try to stimulate more growth by injecting fresh monetary stimulus into the economy. The president said the world needed a robust United States recovery even though it should no longer depend on the American consumer to serve as the mainstay of demand.
''A strong recovery that creates jobs, income and spending is the most important contribution the United States can make to the global recovery,'' Mr. Obama wrote in the letter. ''The dollar's strength ultimately rests on the fundamental strength of the U.S. economy.''
A few hours after Mr. Obama's letter was released, the Commerce Department reported that American exports grew 0.3 percent in September while imports fell 1 percent. Exports through the first nine months of the year are up nearly 18 percent from the same period a year ago.
''Our renewed focus on trade promotion is helping to grow exports, which are critical to our continued economic growth,'' the commerce secretary, Gary Locke, said in a statement from Yokohama, Japan, where Mr. Obama is to travel on Friday evening for meetings of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum.
In his article with Mr. Tharman and Mr. Swan, Mr. Geithner said trade and currency adjustments now required broad collective action.
''Currency issues were once left to the United States, Europe and Japan, but that will no longer work in the new world economy,'' they wrote, acknowledging that the days in which American officials could more or less dictate global monetary policy had ended.
The three men wrote that ''the currencies of the major advanced economies are roughly in alignment with each other today'' and that the major nations should avoid currency volatility, but they added that ''emerging economies need to allow their exchange rates to reflect the substantial growth they have achieved in their economies over the last decade.''
The pair of new American statements also acknowledged the anxiety felt by fast-growing emerging markets like South Korea, the host of this year's Group of 20 meeting, over the surge of capital flows that have been entering their economies, driving up currencies, interest rates and inflation and raising the risk of unsustainable asset bubbles.
Despite the more conciliatory tone, many analysts argue that the struggle over monetary policy is unlikely to be resolved quickly.
Uri Dadush, who directs the international economics program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, said the system of flexible exchange rates that had existed since 1971 was at risk of breaking down.
''At the heart of the problem is the unwillingness of the big players -- and here I would single out the United States, Germany and China -- to deal with their own domestic problem,'' Mr. Dadush said.
He said that the United States needed to stimulate demand in the short run but curb its addiction to borrowing in the long run; that China needed to reduce its reliance on exports and allow its consumers to buy more and save less; and that Germany needed to wean itself off the fixation on frugality and productivity that helped it through reunification in 1990 but that now posed a threat to the economic integration of Europe.
Mr. Dadush's view is the mainstream one, and one shared by the United States. As Mr. Obama put it, ''Just as the United States must change, so too must those economies that have previously relied on exports to offset weaknesses in their own demand.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea opened the Group of 20 meeting on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALY SONG/REUTERS)
 Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said he believed that an accord to reduce trade surpluses or deficits was possible. (POOL PHOTO BY TOMOHIRO OHSUMI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CURRENCIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); DEVALUATION (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); MONETARY POLICY (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); TRADE DISPUTES (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (88%); LEE MYUNG-BAK (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (90%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010



407 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Giving; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: The Financial and Social Payoff of Corporate Gifts

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
Frederick W. Smith, chairman and chief executive of FedEx, doesn't publicize his own giving much, but enthusiastically supports his company's efforts, which he said in an interview pay dividends in many ways.
Q.What is your company's strategic approach to giving?
A. We know from a lot of research and communications with customers and various demographic groups, that it's good business to be a good corporate citizen. People absolutely make business decisions toward companies that have good corporate responsibility records. 
The second thing is that from a human perspective, it's important that we do it because we have the capability to do it uniquely. Our expertise is logistics and contingencies; we deal with it every day. We have 700 airplanes, 85,000 trucks, and it allows us to provide logistics support to people in need in these disasters that aren't matched by anyone else. We're 60 percent larger than the next largest company. When something happens, it affects us. We have the ability to help people.
The third thing is, our team of 300,000 folks are highly motivated when people need assistance. It makes customers feel better about the company. Keeping our ''purple promise'' is a big part of the service business.
Q.Shareholders have demanded that companies justify their corporate giving. Is that still true?
A. The evolution of thought about this has gone from the only purpose of a business is to create a return for shareholders to a broader responsibility to shareholders, communities, suppliers. That debate has not been resolved, but we know from our customer research and loyalty research that being a responsible corporate citizen, especially to younger cohorts, is enormously important. When someone is standing on a rooftop in New Orleans or marooned in China, it's hard to stand by, especially when you have the capability to help them out.
Q.Your company gives a lot of in-kind relief to countries where you are trying to expand your business. Is that deliberate?
A. We know that it is directly related to people's willingness to buy. So it's good business. The amount of money is significant, but in terms in the company, it's modest. We're approaching $40 billion in revenue. Because of our scope and scale, it's something we can do.
Q.What has been the impact of the decline in government spending?
A. First and foremost, people who run public companies have a fiduciary responsibility to manage their money. So there's an upper limit to that based on their primary legal responsibilities. Do I think the corporate giving will pick up the slack of the lack of government benefits or deal with unemployment? To some degree, but on the margins. We have increased our giving, but the best way to deal with the recession is to keep growing as a company.
Q.How has your corporate giving evolved?
A. Initially, when something happens, our folks would say, 'Can't we do something to help these people?' As we got bigger and bigger, and our capabilities became enormous, it was obvious we needed to formalize it. The most important thing that happened was the relationships with these various organizations that are in the business of helping these people. They provide that decades-old understanding, and we can provide the logistics support and financial support.
Q.Some say corporate giving is not philanthropy. Is the distinction necessary?
A. Giving of this sort is different from the disaster relief we do. With a few exceptions, there are few who can do what we do. The U.S. military can be included in that. Normally with corporate giving, our criteria for that is pretty clear. It has to be something that supports our business objectives or tends to further the goals of the corporation. We don't have a foundation. It could be to a particular university that has a corporate education program, or something to do with the quality of the health of our employees in a certain place. We do it, but we just don't throw money around for the sake of it.
Q.How do you measure success in your giving?
A. The way we finally answered it was to recognize that there were people who were much more expert in measuring than we are, those groups like the Red Cross, Heart to Heart, the Salvation Army. If the Red Cross says we need X amount of pounds of medical supplies or tents, we're relying on their people on the ground with the expertise. We preposition things for the American Red Cross. We have helped to look after United Way trucks, but they need to decide how many cups of coffee, bandages and so on.
Q.Your company spends about 1.5 percent of its pretax profits on giving, higher than the 0.9 percent average for companies. Do you expect that percentage to rise?
A. We budget every year for in-kind giving and flying in disaster relief. We sort of set a target and budget and work backward from there. But we would, on an ad hoc basis, adjust it, like in 2005 after Katrina.
Q.What are some of the latest trends in corporate giving?
A. The biggest trends we see is team member engagement. One of the things we have is FedEx Cares. We assist our folks to assist other people. They volunteer a lot of hours. That's an increasingly important part of corporate social responsibility. We've been doing it a long time. I don't think it's recession related. It's the normal idea of feeling good. For example, in a tough neighborhood in the United States, we have a facility in those neighborhoods, so we can assemble to do anything that needs to be done. That's a modest part of our corporate philanthropy, but it's increasingly something that our employees do.
Q.Some say that helping send relief supplies is a Band-Aid, and that companies should help alleviate the underlying problems, like global warming, that might cause hurricanes or other disasters. How do you respond?
A. We have very rigorous goals to reduce our consumption of fossil fuels. This year, we have a $3.5 billion capital budget for new 777 planes, which are much more efficient, and 757s that are replacing 727s. We've played a leadership role in the electrification program and electric vehicles that are recharged at night when they are not being used. We have a goal to reduce our carbon footprint by 20 percent by 2020 in our vehicle fleet. We have large solar power installations at an airport in Cologne and in Woodbridge, N.J., and use all sorts of recycled materials. We're doing all of those things for good business reasons as well as the broader interest.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fred Smith 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORPORATE GIVING (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); CHARITABLE GIVING (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); LOYALTY MARKETING (76%); COMPANY STRATEGY (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (56%)

PERSON: FREDERICK W SMITH (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (73%) LOUISIANA, USA (73%) CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010



408 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1474 words

HEADLINE: PANEL SEEKS CUTS IN SOCIAL SECURITY AND HIGHER TAXES

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES; David M. Herszenhorn contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The chairmen of President Obama's bipartisan commission on reducing the national debt outlined a politically provocative and economically ambitious package of spending cuts and tax increases on Wednesday, igniting a debate that is likely to grip the country for years.
The plan calls for deep cuts in domestic and military spending, a gradual 15-cents-a-gallon increase in the federal gasoline tax, limiting or eliminating popular tax breaks in return for lower rates, and benefit cuts and an increased retirement age for Social Security.
Those changes and others, none of which would take effect before 2012 to avoid undermining the tepid economic recovery, would erase nearly $4 trillion from projected deficits through 2020, the proposal says, and stabilize the accumulated debt.
''It's time to lay it out on the table and let the American people start to chew on it,'' said Alan K. Simpson, the former Republican Senate leader who is one of the co-chairmen, along with Erskine B. Bowles, who was White House chief of staff under President Bill Clinton. 
Their outline will be the basis for negotiation within the commission, which has a Dec. 1 deadline for submitting a final plan. It represents a challenge to both parties: to Mr. Obama and the Democrats, to show in the wake of the midterm election that they are serious about their pledges to address long-term deficits, and to Republicans, who for the most part have ruled out consideration of tax increases even as they have promised new adherence to fiscal responsibility.
Liberal groups immediately condemned the plan when news of it broke, for its Social Security and Medicare changes and for the scope of the spending cuts. The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, in a statement called it ''simply unacceptable.''
The furor on the left was not matched -- yet -- by a similar outcry from the right to the draft's proposed revenue increases, cuts to the military or other options.
The plan has many elements with the potential to draw intense political fire. It lays out options for overhauling the tax code that include limiting or eliminating the mortgage interest deduction, the child tax credit and the earned income tax credit. It envisions cutting Pentagon weapons programs and paring back almost all domestic programs.
The plan would reduce cost-of-living increases for all federal programs, including Social Security. It would reduce projected Social Security benefits to most retirees in later decades, though low-income people would get higher benefits. The retirement age for full benefits would be slowly raised to 69 from 67 by 2075, with a ''hardship exemption'' for people who physically cannot work past 62. And higher levels of income would be subject to payroll taxes.
But the plan would not count Social Security savings toward the overall deficit-reduction goal that Mr. Obama set for fiscal year 2015, reflecting the chairmen's sensitivity to liberal critics who have complained that Social Security should be fixed only for its own sake, not to help balance the nation's books.
Mr. Obama created the commission last February in the hope it would provide political cover for bold action against deficits in 2011. His stance now, in the wake of his party's drubbing, will go a long way toward telling whether he tacks to the political center -- by embracing such proposals -- or shifts to the left and leaves them on a shelf.
For Republicans, the chairmen's proposals and a similar report coming next week from a private bipartisan group will challenge their contention that the budget can be balanced by spending cuts alone. That is a claim that many conservative economists and budget analysts reject, given the scale of projected debt as the baby boom generation retires and begins claiming costly federal benefits, after a severe recession.
Mr. Bowles and Mr. Simpson said their plan was ''a starting point'' as members of the commission met behind closed doors to consider it.
That was clear from the initial reactions of the members, nine of them Democrats, seven Republicans. None embraced the package and several made clear they would not support it without big changes.
''I think every member of the commission would agree that this is not the plan,'' said Representative Jan Schakowsky, Democrat of Illinois, who is perhaps the panel's most liberal member.
The group had made no decisions before the midterm elections, to avoid politicizing the painful options. Even so, the election results -- by emboldening victorious antitax conservatives and having led to the defeat of many fiscally conservative Congressional Democrats -- are widely seen as having reduced the already slim chance that a supermajority of the commission could agree to a package of proposals by Dec. 1.
Under Mr. Obama's executive order creating the panel of 12 members of Congress and six private citizens, 14 of the 18 commissioners must agree in order to send any package to Congress for a vote in December. The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, and Ms. Pelosi, who will remain the speaker until January, have promised in writing that the Senate would vote first and, if it approves a plan, the House would vote.
''I think it's possible'' that 14 members will agree, said Senator Tom Coburn, a conservative Oklahoma Republican who worked closely with the chairmen on proposed reductions from the military and in so-called tax expenditures, the myriad tax breaks for individuals and businesses that cost more than $1 trillion a year. ''You don't know until you see what the final plan is.''
In five hours of deliberations on Wednesday, the commission did not discuss the plan's particulars much but instead talked at length about whether a lame-duck Congress would have time to write specific legislation and then vote, members said in interviews. It was unclear, they said, whether that was a sign other members thought the commission actually could reach agreement, or whether they were hiding behind concerns about legislative procedures to avoid tough policy decisions.
''At least people stayed in the room,'' Andy Stern, the former president of the Service Employees International Union, said in an interview, recalling his concerns and others' that Republicans would walk out if taxes were on the table and Democrats if Social Security and other spending programs were.
Right now the biggest issue facing the lame-duck Congress is whether to extend the Bush-era income tax cuts, which expire Dec. 31, for all taxpayers, as Republicans want, or for income below $250,000, as Mr. Obama and Democrats want. The Bowles-Simpson plan includes one option that assumes only the lower-income rates are extended and another that ends all Bush tax rates and replaces the tax code with simpler, lower rates and many fewer tax breaks.
Extending all the Bush tax cuts through 2020 would add more than $4 trillion to the debt -- coincidentally, about the same amount that the chairmen's painful options are designed to cut in the same time frame.
Their proposed simplification of the tax code would repeal or modify a number of popular tax breaks -- including the deductibility of mortgage interest payments -- so that income tax rates could be reduced across the board. Under one option, individual income tax rates would decline to as low as 8 percent for the lowest income bracket (it is now 10 percent) and to 23 percent for the highest bracket (now 35 percent). The corporate tax rate, now 35 percent, would be reduced to as low as 26 percent.
But how low the rates are set would depend on how many tax breaks are reduced or eliminated. Some of them, including the mortgage interest deduction and the exemption from taxes for employees' health benefits, are political sacred cows.
The 18.4-cents-a-gallon federal gasoline tax would rise by 15 cents between 2013 and 2015 so that transportation spending no longer requires money from the general treasury.
The plan would cut $2 from spending for every $1 in new revenues. Total spending would be about 22 percent of the nation's gross domestic product, and revenues would be held to 21 percent.
Cuts in annual discretionary spending, domestic and military, would be the largest in recent decades. Farm subsidies would be reduced. To further reduce growth in the fast-growing entitlement programs, the plan would expand on the hard-won Medicare cost savings in Mr. Obama's health care law. And it would limit malpractice awards, long a Republican goal.
Online Correction: November 10, 2010, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misstated the amount of the current federal tax on gasoline and referred imprecisely to the amount by which it would increase. It also stated incorrectly that Senator Kent Conrad was chairman of the Senate Finance Commitee.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Erskine B. Bowles, left, and Alan K. Simpson, are co-chairmen of President Obama's panel on reducing the national debt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A23) CHARTS: Proposed Cuts and Savings: Examples of the commission's proposals, which are intended to reduce deficits by $4 trillion through 2020: Spending cuts
Tax increases
 Social Security (Source: National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform) (A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); RETIREMENT AGE (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); COST OF LIVING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (77%); MEDICARE (76%); DEFENSE SPENDING (76%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); FUEL TAX (72%); INCOME TAX (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); TAX REFORM (71%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (64%); CORPORATE TAX (60%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (73%); ERSKINE BOWLES (73%); NANCY PELOSI (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010



409 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: Economic Crisis Sidelines Fate of the World's Poorest

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Last year, after a personal appeal from President Obama in which he cited his own family's experiences in Kenya, world leaders gathered at the Italian hill town of L'Aquila pledged $20 billion over three years to help millions of the world's poorest farmers grow enough food to feed themselves -- a ''landmark achievement'' organizers said in a report.
A year and a half later, barely $1 billion has come in, mostly from the United States. Canada, Spain, South Korea and the Gates Foundation recently promised around $400 million, but many donors have been shifting old aid pledges into the new fund, and counting them twice. 
After aid groups examined the numbers of the L'Aquila announcement, they found that only around $6 billion of the $20 billion would be new money, were it to materialize in the next three years.
''It was impossible to nail down solid answers,'' said Tom Hart, director of government relations with the ONE campaign, a nonprofit group that seeks increased government money for international aid. ''The announcement made it sound like something much larger than what it is.''
As the same leaders gather this week in Seoul for another conference to address the global economy, the fate of the world's poorest is on the fringes, largely sidelined by the economic crisis. World leaders will mention development in the final communiques, though probably unsupported by pledges of additional money. Efforts by South Korea to make development issues a big part of the agenda largely failed as big countries hunkered down to wrangle over other issues, like falling interest rates.
The imbalance is striking in part because Mr. Obama, whose election was greeted with euphoria across Africa, has sought to build on aggressive moves by President George W. Bush to fight AIDS and poverty, and more specifically, to help poor farmers reach the point where they can support their families.
His appointment of Rajiv Shah, the American son of Indian immigrants to lead the Agency for International Development, put an ambitious development expert at the head of a beleaguered agency that had, over the years, lost control of American aid money to a host of other government agencies. In September, Mr. Obama announced a new policy that officials said would reallocate development money from countries whose efforts are deemed less promising to those with a greater chance of success; the strategy has largely been greeted with praise within the aid community.
But the administration's development efforts have been slowed down, not only by the economic crisis but also by bureaucratic headaches of the administration's own making. The appointment of Dr. Shah did not come until a year after Mr. Obama took office because of delays in vetting candidates for the job.
Once Dr. Shah was finally in place, the process of getting the aid agency fully staffed continued to lag, critics say. Equally slow has been an exhaustive review at the State Department of diplomacy and development, which is meant to breathe new life into development efforts. That report was supposed to come out last January; it is still not out. The administration is about to drop the findings of its review -- with attendant proposals for how to spend foreign aid -- on Congress just when a Republican takeover of the House is expected to deepen partisan fighting over every dollar that Congress is asked to allocate.
''There's been some real frustration, probably with the speed with which Usaid has been staffed,'' said John Norris, executive director of the sustainable security program at the Center for American Progress, a policy group with close ties to the Obama administration. As for the delay in the development review, Mr. Norris added, ''there were a lot of turf battles.''
Administration officials say the turf battles are largely over, although the larger war to get real dollars for Mr. Obama's proposals -- domestically and internationally -- lie ahead. Mr. Obama promised $3.5 billion over three years in L'Aquila for the farmer initiative; so far he has received $813 million from Congress in the 2010 fiscal year. For the 2011 fiscal year, the White House asked for $1.6 billion; Congress has yet to act on that request.
White House officials said getting the money approved was only part of the effort. ''Just counting the dollars only tells you what a donor is spending,'' said Gayle Smith, Mr. Obama's top development aide. ''Our premise is that we're going to get far better outcomes if we combine resources with doing business differently.''
The farming program seeks to match aid money with rural agriculture needs in the developing world, Dr. Shah said in an interview. For instance, the United States has spent around $15 million in northern Ghana so far to support small farmers, most of whom happen to be women.
By working to improve crop yields, and setting up in-country processing for local raw materials, the program would help these women get more out of their farms. ''What we're doing is literally reaching hundreds of farm households, helping to dramatically increase their production, then selling their excess product in professional markets,'' Dr. Shah said. ''When I've visited these households, you see right away that the first thing they do with increased income is pay for school fees for their kids.''
Properly financed, the American part of the program could move 40 million people out of poverty in five years, administration officials said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); FAMILY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); GLOBALIZATION (66%); IMMIGRATION (66%); AIDS & HIV (65%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (57%) UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); KENYA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010



410 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: Disputes Over Beef and Autos Hold Up Trade Pact Between U.S. and South Korea

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- Aides to President Obama and President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea were scrambling early Thursday to reach agreement on a revised free-trade pact that they hoped would show their commitment to expand commerce ahead of the G-20 conference of leading nations.
As Mr. Obama and Mr. Lee prepared for a face-to-face meeting, negotiators were working furiously to resolve last minute-sticking points concerning South Korean imports of American beef and automobiles. 
People monitoring the negotiations say that if the deal is sealed, it will be the result of the direct talks between the two leaders. Mr. Obama and Mr. Lee have scheduled a joint news conference for midday Thursday in Seoul. For Mr. Obama -- who is trying to reframe his presidency around improving the American economy and who has made the doubling of exports a centerpiece of his agenda -- walking away without an agreement could prove to be an embarrassment.
The trade accord, an update of one the Bush administration negotiated and signed in 2007 and that has expired, has languished in the Democratic-controlled Congress. Mr. Obama, though, has thrown his weight behind it while calling for technical modifications that would be more favorable to American automakers and industrial unions. With Republicans soon to control the House of Representatives, some believe he will have a better chance of winning approval for the agreement.
''We're all better off if we move forward on an export agenda that is robust, bipartisan and thoughtful, and there's an opportunity for that right now,'' said Representative Peter Roskam, an Illinois Republican who met the Korean foreign minister to discuss the accord. ''There's a collapsing window to get this done. We've seen what happens when these free-trade agreements languish.''
Mr. Obama is on a 10-day, four-nation swing through Asia that he is promoting as an effort to create jobs at home. The president is also trying to repair ties with the American business community, and the South Korean deal is a priority of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, whose president, Thomas J. Donohue, has said he can round up the Congressional votes to get it approved.
In the three years since Mr. Bush negotiated the first free-trade pact, other nations, including Australia and Canada, have put similar deals in effect, and the chamber argues that the United States is falling behind.
''The landscape in Asia has changed,'' said Tami Overby, the vice president for Asia at the Chamber of Commerce, who is here to monitor the talks. ''It's much more competitive, so I think the pressure on both sides to get this deal done is greater than ever.''
Ms. Overby said the negotiators had a ''bumpy night,'' but that was not uncommon. ''It's a very typical intense Korean negotiation, where things do tend to go very much to the last minute, so this is not really unexpected,'' she said. ''It's a bit like deja vu from the original negotiation.''
The biggest sticking point is over auto imports. In Washington, the Democratic leadership has been pushing for lower nontariff barriers to American exports of automobiles to South Korea, and for an easing of restrictions on American exports of beef, which have been a source of controversy since an outbreak of mad cow disease in 2003.
While the agreement would lower or eliminate tariffs on cars in both countries, the Obama administration has pushed for reductions in other export barriers like emissions, mileage and safety requirements and tax and insurance rules.
''If we can reach the standard for a fair trade agreement that the president has set out on particularly autos, we will move forward,'' said Jen Psaki, the deputy White House communications director, who is traveling with Mr. Obama. ''We hope to continue making progress.''
Automakers have complained that the South Koreans want to impose onerous fuel efficiency standards -- stricter than those required in the United States -- as a way of keeping American cars out of South Korea. Last week, the Ford Motor Company placed newspaper advertisements calling the deal unfair. Ford said it had backed every free-trade agreement approved by Congress since 1965, but said it could not do so for this one.
The consumer advocacy organization Public Citizen, which often opposes trade pacts, and groups like it have also questioned the benefits of the deal, saying that in the short term it could cost more jobs than it would create.
Supporters say the deal would promote growth in both countries and solidify an alliance that goes back to the Korean War.
''South Korea has been our most reliable Asian ally since the Vietnam War, and Washington has not done enough to recognize that in the recent past,'' said Donald P. Gregg, the American ambassador here from 1989 to 1993.
The talks have been going on at a high level since last week, when top trade negotiators from both countries began meeting. They were joined on Monday by Ron Kirk, the United States trade representative, and his Korean counterpart, Kim Jong-hoon. Congressional staff have also been included, and three members of Congress are here for support: Senator Daniel K. Inouye, Democrat of Hawaii; Senator Thad Cochran, Republican of Mississippi, and Mr. Roskam.
Trade is a tough sell at home, especially during difficult economic times in hard-hit manufacturing communities, where workers tend to view trade pacts as drawing American jobs overseas. A survey released Wednesday by the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press found substantial skepticism about trade deals like Nafta and the policies of the World Trade Organization. The poll found that 35 percent of adults said free-trade agreements had been good for the United States, while 44 percent said they had been bad.
While most Americans say that increased trade with Canada, Japan and European Union countries -- as well as India, Brazil and Mexico -- would be good for the United States, reactions to increased trade with South Korea and China were mixed, according to the survey, which was conducted Nov. 4-7 among 1,255 adults. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus four percentage points. Republicans and Republican-leaning independents who were aligned with the Tea Party movement had a particularly negative view of the impact of free-trade agreements.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama arriving in Seoul, South Korea. He is scheduled to meet with President Lee Myung-bak on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); BEEF (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); APPROVALS (64%); JOB CREATION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); LEE MYUNG-BAK (91%); PETER J ROSKAM (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (93%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010



411 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: One Battle Won, Many Others Face Reid in Senate

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, scraped his way to re-election last week, and some members of his staff -- relieved to still have their jobs -- are calling him Harry Houdini. But with his Democratic caucus reduced, and Republicans set to take over the House, Mr. Reid may want to brush up on his magic skills: passing bills next year, or even just keeping his senators unified, may require gravity-defying tricks.
Mr. Reid can claim a numerical majority in the next Congress, and, at 53 to 47, it will be bigger than the two-seat advantage he held from 2007 to 2009. But the Republican majority in the House will put Senate Democrats instantly on the defensive, forcing them to protect their legislative accomplishments over the last two years, like the new health care law, which Republicans are insisting they will repeal and replace.
As for any new agenda, the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, has put Democrats on notice that he will not give much, if any, ground. And aides to Mr. Reid said that has him looking to focus his efforts in the months ahead on a handful of issues on which there is a possibility for bipartisan compromise: education; trade; energy -- provided that any bills are modest in scope; and perhaps cybersecurity. 
Of course, before Mr. Reid can look ahead, he must first navigate a lame-duck session set to begin next week and try to help Democrats get out of the box they seem to have locked themselves in on the expiring Bush tax cuts. Almost any deal to extend all of the Bush-era rates will look like surrender, but some Democrats said Mr. Reid might be able to claim a victory of sorts if he were to succeed in blocking an extension of the lower rates on any income above $1 million.
Mr. Reid declined an interview request this week as he returned to work at the Capitol. Aides said he was not ready to answer questions about the lame-duck session or the next two years. But in his victory speech, Mr. Reid, a onetime boxer, said, ''The bell that just rang isn't the end of the fight, it's the start of the next round,'' and he acknowledged the steep challenges.
He added, ''Tomorrow morning, there will still be too few jobs for too many people, there will still be too many foreclosure signs in too many front yards, there will still be too many kids in crowded classrooms and too many students wondering how can they afford college.''
If Mr. Reid has no choice but to scale back his legislative goals, he is also under heavy pressure from members of his caucus, particularly senators up for re-election in 2012, when Democrats will be forced to defend 23 seats. On a conference call right after the elections, some of those senators immediately began pressing Mr. Reid to focus tightly on jobs and the economy and to help them build a strong record to run on.
''Not only Democrats would be better off but the institution and the country would be better off if we spent more of our time working on policies that help create jobs,'' said Senator Bob Casey, Democrat of Pennsylvania, who is among those on the ballot in 2012, and whose state just elected a Republican senator and governor.
''That's a main area where we have to show progress on,'' Mr. Casey said.
Mr. Casey noted that Mr. Reid and the Democrats had already pushed through policies to help lift the economy, including a tax break to spur hiring and aid for small businesses. But he said Democrats would do well to play legislative small ball. ''Break things up, keep it small, don't get into really big and overly complex pieces of legislation,'' he said.
That should not be hard given the limited room Mr. Reid will have to maneuver.
At the same time, Mr. Reid will often have to play defense, fending off legislation pushed through by House Republicans. Still, whatever the pressures ahead, Mr. Reid is noticeably relieved to have avoided the fate of his predecessor, Tom Daschle of South Dakota, who became a target of Republicans and was ousted in 2004. Colleagues who have seen Mr. Reid, who turns 71 next month, say he looks five years younger than he did in October.
Several Senate Democrats expressed relief that the looming battle between Mr. Reid's two likely successors, Richard J. Durbin of Illinois and Charles E. Schumer of New York, had been averted, or at least postponed.
In the curious math of the Senate, Mr. Reid's life may actually be easier with his not having 59 votes in his caucus.
Over the last two years, Mr. Reid struggled mightily to get legislation adopted -- even during the six months that his party controlled the 60 votes needed to surmount Republican filibusters. Often, bills were approved only after Mr. Reid had resorted to unsavory political deals to win the votes of specific senators or forced Democrats in the House to simply accept whatever watered-down package he could get through the Senate.
In the next Congress, aides said, he will no longer be expected to try to pick off one or two Republican votes to reach the 60 needed to overcome filibusters. Nor will he be accused of failing to push through bills that the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, succeeded in muscling through her chamber.
As the man who controls the business on the Senate floor, Mr. Reid can swerve this way and that as he tries to negotiate with Mr. McConnell and Republicans over amendments, while also trying to corral votes among Democrats, win over allies and draw opponents into the open. In a chamber where any one senator can delay legislation for days, he alternately coaxes and threatens, cajoles and castigates.
Aides say that is unlikely to change. After returning to Washington on Tuesday, he was quickly back at it, meeting separately with Mr. Schumer and Mr. Durbin on strategy, speaking by phone with Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico and chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, about developing legislation, and with Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan and chairman of the Armed Services Committee, about the prospects of repealing the ban on gay men and lesbians serving openly in the military.
He also met Wednesday with Ms. Pelosi to chart plans for the lame-duck session, including the debate on taxes and, aides said, has spoken several times with President Obama.
With Mr. McConnell taking a tough line, Mr. Reid is said to be hopeful of potential deals with the likely Republican House speaker, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, with whom he has a cordial relationship. They have talked by phone and are scheduled to have dinner at the White House next week with other Congressional leaders.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, leaving his office on Wednesday for a meeting with House Democratic leaders. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); TAX LAW (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (68%); HEALTH CARE LAW (53%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (93%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010



412 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Trade Gap Narrows; New Jobless Claims Drop

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
The United States trade deficit narrowed in September, with American exports at their highest level in the last two years, according to government figures released on Wednesday.
The deficit with China remained the largest, although it shrank slightly from the previous month.
The trade figures came out at a politically charged time for President Obama, who is joining other leaders of the Group of 20 nations at a meeting in Seoul, South Korea, that is expected to address global economic issues, including currency and trade. 
While a weak dollar has helped American exports, concerns have been rising within the Obama administration about China's trade dominance and its effect on the global economic recovery.
The administration and some lawmakers have been pressing China to allow its currency to appreciate in value, which would make American exports more competitive in the world market. But so far, China has allowed relatively small increases, and officials there say they have to worry first about job creation and stability.
The government figures, part of the Commerce Department's regular scheduled release of monthly statistics, showed that United States exports were $154.1 billion in September, the highest level in at least the last two years, against imports of $198.1 billion. That left a deficit of $44 billion in September, down from a revised $46.5 billion gap in August.
The United States trade deficit with China accounted for $27.8 billion of the total deficit in September, according to the statistics, down slightly from $28 billion in August.
The new figures showed that the overall trade deficit in the first nine months of 2010 was $379 billion, up from $270 billion in the first nine months of 2009. The overall deficit was pushed down by fewer imports of consumer goods, autos and automobile parts, and an increase in American exports.
With the trade deficit with China still close to the August record high, the incentive remains for the United States to continue to pressure China to revalue its currency, said Paul Dales, United States economist with Capital Economics. ''They want the surplus countries to run a smaller trade surplus or no surplus at all,'' he said.
''Regardless of what happens today the United States is running a bigger trade deficit with China than all the other countries put together, and it is pretty clear who the villain is,'' he said. ''I suspect U.S. officials will remain as adamant as they were before the data came out.''
But he and other economists said that the trade figures reflected just one month of data, which is often volatile.
Another backdrop to the G-20 summit meeting is the criticism by some countries of the Federal Reserve's decision last week to buy $600 billion more in government securities, a move seen as currency manipulation that will undercut their own competitiveness.
Nigel Gault, the chief United States economist for IHS Global Insight, said the narrower deficit means that trade will not be as big of a drag on third-quarter growth as first estimated, meaning that gross domestic product growth estimates could be revised up to 2.3 percent from 2 percent. And exports could accelerate, helped by growth in emerging markets with a weaker dollar.
''Trade was a huge drag on growth in both the second and third quarters,'' Mr. Gault said. ''We think that it will turn into a big plus in the fourth quarter, partly due to faster export growth.''
But seasonal variations and the fact that underlying sales growth is sluggish might reflect the easing in imports. Consumers are spending slowly, and with a high unemployment rate in the United States, trade and currency issues remain pressing concerns.
Other economic figures released on Wednesday showed that a weekly gauge of joblessness, new claims for unemployment insurance, fell last week by about 24,000, to 435,000. It was the lowest level in four months, according to the Labor Department.
The four-week moving average, which is intended to smooth out the volatility of the weekly claims data, declined to 446,500, a decrease of 10,000 and a level not seen since late 2008.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Balance of Trade: The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department)
 Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); EXPORT TRADE (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); JOB CREATION (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (72%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010



413 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; DEMOCRATIC INFIGHTING; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: Opposition to Pelosi Grows

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
The speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi, looks ahead to the new Congress in an op-ed column in USA Today on Wednesday, but she continues to face a small rebellion within her own party about returning as Democratic leader. 
On Tuesday, two lawmakers - Representatives Marcy Kaptur of Ohio and Peter A. DeFazio of Oregon - urged that leadership elections scheduled for next week be put off until December to give Democrats more time to consider what went wrong on Election Day. And two Illinois lawmakers from the Chicago area -- Representatives Mike Quigley, a more liberal lawmaker, and Daniel Lipinski, a moderate -- joined those who said they would prefer someone else at the helm.
That means that more than 15 House Democrats have raised concerns to varying degrees about Ms. Pelosi's hanging on to the party's top spot. It is not a large number, but it is still surprising given the power Ms. Pelosi has wielded -and would wield as minority leader.
Allies of Ms. Pelosi said she had retained a strong core of support in the Democratic caucus and would be easily re-elected. Democratic officials say those who have gone public represent a much broader spectrum of House Democrats who are uneasy about Ms. Pelosi's remaining as leader after the crushing losses on Election Day.
Still, no one has stepped forward to challenge Ms. Pelosi, and the main Democratic leadership fight for the moment continues to be the effort by Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina to unseat Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland from the party's No. 2 slot.
Democrats will have about 200 people voting in their party elections, counting Congressional delegates, meaning that a majority will be just over 100 if all vote.
In her op-ed, Ms. Pelosi said the midterm election results ''reflected the genuine frustration of the American people, who are justifiably angered by the continued high unemployment rate.''
''While Democrats are also disappointed at the rate of job growth,'' she wrote, ''it does not diminish what we have accomplished.''
She also said: ''Democrats will continue to put forward innovative ideas, engage in entrepreneurial thinking and work to create the jobs for middle-class prosperity. Republicans and Democrats must work together, with President Obama, to prepare for our nation for the 21st century while creating clean energy and infrastructure jobs. As we go forward, we welcome Republican ideas about job creation.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); JOB CREATION (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (92%); STENY HOYER (58%); JAMES CLYBURN (58%); DANIEL LIPINSKI (58%); PETER A DEFAZIO (58%); MARCY KAPTUR (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010



414 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: A School System, From Klein to Black

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Klein Resigning as Chancellor of City Schools'' (front page, Nov. 10):
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg called Cathleen P. Black, his choice for chancellor of the New York City school system, ''a superstar manager.'' 
The question is not about her ability as a manager. The question is about her ability as a manager of issues and people involved in education. In this area, everything I have read says she is not qualified.
Yes, the city schools need a manager with business acumen, but I would posit that that's not enough. They also need a manager with expertise and experience in education.
While Ms. Black, in Mr. Bloomberg's words, knows ''the skills our children will need to succeed in the 21st-century economy,'' she should be working in concert with a chancellor who is an educator and who knows the strategies required to teach those skills.
Marlene K. Gussin Douglaston, Queens, Nov. 10, 2010
The writer is a retired teacher in the New York City public schools.
To the Editor:
Ask teachers in New York City if the school system improved under the leadership of Joel I. Klein, and they will tell you ''No!'' Constant test preparation, accountability, data collection and top-down management have not made the children in our public school system smarter, more independent, more creative, more inquisitive or, most important, more eager to learn.
Replacing one non-educator chancellor with another doesn't make sense. Our school system needs a seasoned educator at the top -- someone who understands how children learn, how they think, how they behave, how they enjoy life. There are many capable candidates to choose from.
Bill Liebeskind New York, Nov. 10, 2010
The writer is a teacher in the New York City public schools.
To the Editor:
It is a source of amazement to me that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg insists on hiring a schools chief who has no expertise in how people learn, or curriculum and instruction.
The New York State Education Department should not issue a waiver for Cathleen P. Black, as required for non-educators. Why should we demand less of our leaders than we do of our teachers?
Is it not possible to find a charismatic leader who is a clear and determined communicator, and who also understands the history of public education in America, what cognitive science has to say about how people learn, and the role that community and school leadership play in the effectiveness of any given school?
This is a highly specialized position, and we are hiring a leader with no experience in education -- yet again. How can this be good for the children of New York City?
Janice Koch Fulton, Md., Nov. 10, 2010
The writer is professor emerita, Department of Curriculum and Teaching, Hofstra University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); CURRICULA (89%); CHILDREN (89%); WRITERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: CATHLEEN BLACK (90%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010



415 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Giving; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1934 words

HEADLINE: The Pledge

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
WITHOUT a doubt, the biggest event in philanthropy this year was the Giving Pledge, a commitment by 40 of the wealthiest Americans to give away at least half of their fortunes, about $600 billion.
The goals of the pledge, which was organized by Bill and Melinda Gates and Warren E. Buffett, were to stimulate discussion about philanthropy among the ultrawealthy and unleash a wave of me-tooism among others that would bring about ''the Second Great Wave of Philanthropy,'' in the words of Sean Stannard-Stockton, a blogger and philanthropic consultant.
Now, about three months later, the pledge has not yet visibly inspired new major gifts or attracted additional signatures -- Mr. Buffett said he expected more soon -- but has surely created discussion and debate, about the wealthy, their giving and what it says about our society.
Indeed, the Giving Pledge and the attention it has attracted come at a time of economic weakness, high unemployment, raging political debates about whether to extend tax cuts or allow them to expire, the seemingly uncontrollable cost of health care -- and the increasing income gap between the signatories and a vast majority of Americans. 
''It can look like it's totally a P.R. thing, like they are royalty,'' said Ellen Remmer, chief executive of the Philanthropic Initiative, explaining why there has been a mixed reaction to the pledge. ''You have to remember, the reason we've had this golden age of philanthropy is because we've had this incredible concentration of wealth, and the pledge is a reminder of that.''
Pledge founders and signers and their supporters marvel that anyone would find fault with it. ''I hardly know what to say,'' Mr. Buffett said by telephone. ''Philanthropy is a tradition in America.'' Americans give away about $300 billion a year, he said, or the equivalent of 2 percent of gross domestic product. ''It doesn't seem to have done any harm in the country so far.''
Mr. Gates said the pledge and the discussions about it would improve the practice of philanthropy. ''We will never be able to measure how much the group gets people to do more giving or do it in a better way,'' he wrote via e-mail. ''However, I think the impact is likely to be quite positive.''
In fact, Mr. Gates said, the pledge is a tool for addressing income disparity because it is a mechanism for the redistribution of wealth.
Mr. Stannard-Stockton said he was baffled by the criticism of the pledge. ''Even if only one additional person took it up, at the levels of net worth we're talking about, that could be 450 million more dollars that would be out there doing something good,'' he said.
Pablo Eisenberg, a senior fellow at the Center for Public and Nonprofit Leadership at Georgetown University -- and normally an acerbic critic of big-league philanthropy -- also said the pledge was likely to inspire more giving.
''What concerns me is that no one has said what the pledge is going to do, who it will serve and how it will be accountable,'' Mr. Eisenberg said.
A big portion of the money pledged will probably flow into foundation endowments rather than being donated immediately to areas like education and social services. ''Basically, it will increase the number of mega-foundations, and I worry that will hurt our democracy because of the influence these institutions will exert,'' he said.
The pledge has already played into the emerging debate about the influence that wealth has in the country today and the fears that philanthropy is being used to bend public policy, whether it is the Koch brothers' support of conservative causes, the financier George Soros's donations to Democratic causes or the Gates Foundation's grants to promote charter schools.
''There's something in the American DNA that is suspicious of enormous concentrations of wealth, even when directed toward the public good,'' said William A. Schambra, director of the Bradley Center for Philanthropy and Civic Renewal at the Hudson Institute. ''True, we are proud of our charitable impulse in the broadest sense, but we think of that in terms of writing a check to the local Red Cross or Boys and Girls Club, not billionaires doling out millions and perhaps influencing the political agenda.''
Even Charles Munger, Mr. Buffett's longtime business associate, has expressed discomfort with the pledge and its implications. ''You get a bunch of very intelligent people sitting around trying to do good, I immediately get kind of suspicious and squirm in my seat,'' he told an audience at the University of Michigan.
Perhaps the most prominent wealthy critic of the pledge is Peter Kramer, a German shipping magnate and philanthropist who supports a Unicef program that, among other things, builds schools in Africa.
Because the United States relies more heavily on philanthropy to support social services that in Europe are generally provided by the government, wealthy philanthropists have a greater impact on public policy, he said.
''These guys have so much power through their wealth that they, instead of the government elected by the people, can decide what's good and what should be promoted and subsidized,'' Mr. Kramer said. ''That can be dangerous.''
Mr. Gates has long countered such concerns by noting that the $35 billion or so in assets of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, perhaps the largest in the world, is small compared with various government budgets, as is ''philanthropy as a whole, including religious giving.''
Mr. Schambra, however, said the Gates Foundation had successfully leveraged government money for policies it preferred.
One of its first education programs involved support for school districts that agreed to establish small high schools, usually by breaking up larger ones, in the belief that smaller schools would foster closer and more beneficial relationships between teachers and students and thus reduce dropout rates.
Many districts around the country bought into that vision, attracted by the dollars the foundation would provide. Then, in late 2008, Mr. Gates walked away from the program, having concluded that many of the newly smaller schools ''did not improve students' achievement in any significant way.''
Discussion of and debate over the superwealthy and their philanthropy are not new. The industrial tycoons who spawned the first great wave of philanthropy, men like Andrew Carnegie, John D. Rockefeller and Andrew W. Mellon, became known as much for their charitable giving as for their business success. Carnegie's book ''The Gospel of Wealth,'' published in 1889, inspired others to philanthropy.
As with the multimillionaire philanthropists of today, their giving called attention to the income disparities of the day and the laws that permitted such power to accrue -- and they drew criticism from many.
Bernard Marcus, the co-founder of Home Depot and a pledge signatory, said he saw no grounds for the current criticism. ''All this money is going for charity to help people -- what kind of numbskull would find something wrong with that?'' he asked in a telephone interview. ''Would they rather we bought yachts and built mansions?''
Mr. Marcus and his wife, Billi, are making gifts to help Atlanta, their hometown, develop as a medical center that will rival Houston and New York. The Marcuses have donated heavily to bring biotechnology, particularly nanotechnology, to Atlanta, and their gifts have helped generate jobs and innovative research.
''I'm very politically active,'' he added, ''but that has nothing to do with my charity.''
Many signatories have already committed their wealth to specific projects. Over the last 15 years, for instance, Lorry I. Lokey, the founder of Business Wire, has committed more than $500 million, a majority of his fortune, to educational institutions including the elementary school he attended, Alameda School in Portland, Ore., and the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology in Haifa.
He has even bequeathed his three homes -- his only luxuries, he said -- to his foundation. Giving like Mr. Lokey's or the Marcuses' is what most people think of when they think of philanthropy.
But such perceptions seem naive after a bitter political campaign season that exposed the influence of major philanthropists dispensing donations to tax-exempt groups that engaged in aggressive campaigns for and against various candidates.
One of the pledge signers, Kenneth Langone, an investor who amassed a fortune backing Home Depot, attended a secretive meeting of billionaires in Aspen, Colo., in June,where participants committed to support political action that promoted conservative causes, like rolling back environmental and health care legislation, according to an invitation to another such gathering scheduled for January.
It was sent by the billionaire Charles Koch, who together with his brother, David, convened the Aspen meeting.
The letter suggested that donations to college and universities could also be used to advance a conservative agenda, ''fashioning the message and building the education channels'' to help combat ''climate change alarmism,'' ''socialized health care'' and other evils the Kochs see in current public policy.
Nothing in the Giving Pledge would prevent Mr. Langone from donating his money in such a way. Mr. Langone declined to be interviewed.
Mr. Buffett said he did not regard donations of the kind the Kochs advocate as philanthropy. Yet donations to college and universities are the epitome of philanthropic gifts.
Alfred E. Mann, the founder of the MannKind Corporation and a pledge signer, said he thought concerns about philanthropists having undue influence on policy were overblown. ''I hope we do,'' Mr. Mann said, adding, ''Congress passes laws that often don't make any sense and create disincentives for improving our country.'' He cited the health care bill passed earlier this year as an example.
Mr. Mann said he had worried about whether the pledge would draw attention to income disparity, observing: ''The differential between the wealthy and the poor is too great. I think the country has gotten too materialistic, and compensation in areas like entertainment and athletics and in corporations have been outrageous.''
Marc Benioff, the billionaire founder of SalesForce.com, was not asked to sign the pledge. He has made a $100 million gift to the Children's Hospital at the University of California, San Francisco, the capstone of 20 years of gifts to support causes as wide-ranging as a monastery in Bhutan and Room to Read, a nonprofit devoted to literacy.
The pledge, he said, was a good idea ''very poorly executed.'' He added: ''Philanthropy should be about impact. I noticed a lot of the pledges were to multigenerational trusts and not to immediate philanthropic work. That's not going to help anyone.''
Despite those comments, Mr. Benioff disagreed with other criticism of the pledge. ''What we should be talking about here is a generation of entrepreneurs who built businesses that created jobs, sparked economic growth and created solutions for complex problems,'' he said. ''Now they're giving away their wealth -- why are we being critical of that?''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 12, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article in the special Giving section on Thursday about the Giving Pledge, whose signers promise to give away at least half of their large fortunes, misidentified the university children's hospital to which Marc Benioff, the billionaire founder of SalesForce.com, gave $100 million. It is the University of California, San Francisco -- not the University of Southern California.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTOS (F1)
Donor Names: 1. Paul G. Allen
2. John Arnold
3. Michael R. Bloomberg
4. Eli and Edythe Broad
5. Warren Buffett
6. Barry Diller and Diane von Furstenberg
7. John Doerr
8. Larry Ellison
9. Bill and Melinda Gates
10. Barron Hilton
11. Jon and Karen Huntsman
12. Joan and Irwin Jacobs
13. George B. Kaiser
14. Elaine and Ken Langone
15. Gerry and Marguerite Lenfest
16. Lorry I. Lokey
17. George Lucas
18. Alfred E. Mann
19. Bernie and Billi Marcus
20. Thomas S. Monaghan
21. John Morgridge
22. Pierre and Pam Omidyar
23. Bernard and Barbro Osher
24. Ronald O. Perelman
25. Peter G. Peterson
26. T. Boone Pickens
27. Julian H. Robertson, Jr.
28. David Rockefeller
29. David M. Rubenstein
30. Herb and Marion Sandler
31. Roger Sant
32. Walter Scott, Jr.
33. Jim and Marilyn Simons
34. Jeff Skoll
35. Patrick Soon-Shiong
36. Tom Steyer
37. Jim and Virginia Stowers
38. Ted Turner
39. Sanford and Joan Weill
 40. Shelby White (F11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); MAJOR GIFTS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (89%); MELINDA GATES (89%); WARREN BUFFETT (89%); L JOHN DOERR (78%); WALTER SCOTT JR (59%); DIANE VON FURSTENBERG (59%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); BARRY DILLER (56%); LAWRENCE J ELLISON (50%); JEFF SKOLL (50%); HERB SANDLER (50%); RONALD PERELMAN (50%); PETE PETERSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



416 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(T Magazine)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; travel

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: They Must Be Giants

BYLINE: MONICA KHEMSUROV


HIGHLIGHT: For today's travelers, big is the new buzzword.

 BODY:
'If you think big,'' says the tag line for the 1,000-acre Baha Mar resort about to break ground in the Bahamas, ''think bigger.'' Sound ridiculous in a recession? It's more of a harbinger than you'd imagine, at least in the travel world: led by Las Vegas's CityCenter and the Marina Bay Sands Singapore, a new wave of mega-scale complexes that were conceived during the boom have recently opened their doors, with several more in development, from the Alps to Abu Dhabi. ''I think it's the future,'' says Andy Cohen, executive director of the architecture firm Gensler, which worked on CityCenter and has a similar mixed-use project brewing in Shanghai. ''Whether it's sports, entertainment or retail, the ability to have all that variety in one place is key. People want choice.''
In flush times, developers with access to cheap capital realized the power of the grand gesture to lure travelers, even to remote areas. They could create entire destinations from scratch, usually with the support of local governments, then profit from the outsize buzz. ''It's a model that started 15 years ago in Vegas and Macao,'' says David Scowsill, president of the World Travel and Tourism Council, ''and since then it's just spread.'' The principle has worked equally well for the world's two largest cruise ships, both Royal Caribbean's, which use the spectacle of sheer magnitude to dispel the notion that there's nothing to do at sea.
Despite the current appetite for ''boutique'' experiences, travelers may discover that more is more after all. Beyond offering almost limitless choices, these massive playgrounds are often startlingly innovative. ''We can create major amenities, like sky parks, that are only economically feasible in these circumstances,'' says the Marina Bay Sands architect Moshe Safdie, referring to the project's 133,000-square-foot aerial garden. Experienced globe-trotters interpret this as better value, while inexperienced tourists - who Scowsill says make up a substantial portion of mega-resorts' clientele, especially in the East - like feeling insulated from the outside world, with everything they could possibly need at arm's reach. ''With these big properties, there's a settling feeling,'' Cohen says. ''You understand it, it's exciting, it's a known entity.'' And if nothing else, the new giants have the lure of escapism on their side. Right now, too much may be the only thing that seems like enough. 
LARGE AND IN CHARGE
North America The starchitect-heavy CityCenter (citycenter.com) opened last December on the Las Vegas Strip with 5,900 hotel rooms. LA Live (lalive.com) created a whole new neighborhood in downtown Los Angeles. Setting sail next month, Royal Caribbean's Allure of the Seas (allureoftheseas.com) joins Oasis of the Seas as the world's biggest cruise ships. To come in the Bahamas: Baha Mar (bahamar.com), with six hotels and the Caribbean's largest casino.
Asia The Marina Bay Sands complex (marinabaysands.com) in downtown Singapore has attracted international attention with its triple towers, massive sky park and more than 2,500 hotel rooms. The Shanghai Tower, set to open in 2014, will be the tallest tower in the Far East, with hotels stacked on top of cultural sites.
Europe The golf and spa resort Costa Navarino (costanavarino.com) opened in Greece this summer with two Starwood hotels. And that was Phase 1. Elsewhere on the Continent, Andermatt (andermatt-swissalps.ch) in the Swiss Alps and Budapest's Dream Island (dreamisland.hu), pegged by some as the Vegas of Hungary, are in development.
Middle East A 317-acre golf course is, for now, the main attraction on Abu Dhabi's Saadiyat Island (saadiyat.ae), but by 2020 it will be joined by nine five-star hotels and four museums, including a branch of the Louvre. On the beach of Oman, the Salam Yiti (omran.om/yiti.htm) trio of luxury hotels and residences is scheduled to be up and running by 2013. 

        
Cocoa Beach
        
Shelf Life | On the Case
        
Sydney Sips 
        
Bag of Tricks
        
Plug My Ride

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESORTS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); CRUISES (76%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (75%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (66%); MARINE VESSELS (64%) Abu Dhabi; bahamas; Costa Navarino; Greece; Hungary; las vegas; Oman; Royal Caribbean; Shanghai Tower; Singapore; Starwood; T Travel Winter 2010; World Travel and Tourism Council; Travel

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); SINGAPORE, SINGAPORE (93%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%) NEVADA, USA (94%); ALPS (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SINGAPORE (93%); BAHAMAS (93%); CHINA (90%); GREECE (74%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



417 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: When a Bedbug Find Is a Dog's Main Meal Ticket

BYLINE: CARA BUCKLEY


HIGHLIGHT: Bedbug-sniffing dogs are given treats when they signal the presence of bedbugs. For some dogs, this is their only way to get fed. Does this give them an incentive to issue false alerts?

 BODY:
Bedbug-sniffing dogs have been lauded for their radar-like ability to detect bedbugs that are hidden from human sight. But there have been growing concerns about "false positives" - when a dog incorrectly signals that bedbug are present - within the pest-control industry, and from consumers, too. 
In some cases, dogs are fed only when they signal the presence of bedbugs. A natural question arises: wouldn't that give the dog an incentive to give a false alert?
The answer, experts say, is it depends. There are varying schools of thoughts about when and how a bedbug sniffing dog should get fed. 
Some trainers indeed only feed their dogs after they've detected bedbugs, but also hide live bedbugs daily inside the dog's home so that the dogs get regularly fed, as soon as they've located the vermin. This technique is used by Bell Environmental Services, based in New Jersey. Glenn Waldorf, a director with the company, said that the dogs Bell works with have to hunt for bedbugs and must alert to them in order to get fed. The company's trainers also put out other insects, such as beetles; if the dog alerts to incorrect insects, it will not get fed. 
Other companies, such as Assured Environments, based in Lower Manhattan, bowl-feed their dogs twice daily but reward dogs that have alerted to bedbugs with treats. 
"If they're starved, and so hungry, there's more of a chance of false alerts," said Susa Lavoie, Assured Environments' head canine trainer and handler. "We also feed them regularly because we don't want them scavenging in apartments." 
Pepe Peruyero, a dog trainer who runs the J&K Canine Academy outside of Gainesville, Fla., is pushing for the industry to embrace regulations to standardize and track dogs' training and accuracy, and ensure that handlers are also properly trained. Various organizations offer such certifications, but Mr. Peruyero said that many are run by trainers who sell the dogs, presenting a conflict of interest.

        
In the War on Bedbugs, a New Attack Strategy
        
Bedbugs Spread Like Weeds, and Vice Versa
        
Law to Require Landlords to Come Clean on Bedbugs
        
Bedbugs Close Building at John Jay College
        
How Closing the Subway Would Alter New York

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BED BUGS (94%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (91%); DOGS (91%); PET CARE SERVICES (78%); PEST CONTROL SERVICES (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (68%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (67%); WAR & CONFLICT (63%) bedbug-sniffing dogs; bedbugs; Animals and Wildlife; Health and Hospitals; Housing & Economy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



418 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Freakonomics)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: Interstate Migration Has Fallen Less Than You Think

BYLINE: JUSTIN WOLFERS


HIGHLIGHT: One of the exceptional things about the U.S. is how mobile our workers are. It means that worker shortages in North Dakota won't last long, as workers will move there from jobless Nevada. There's been a lot of concern that the housing crisis has halted this important adjustment mechanism. According to the Census Bureau, the number of people moving across state lines has plummeted in recent years. Problem is: It's just not true.

 BODY:
One of the exceptional things about the U.S. is how mobile our workers are. It means that worker shortages in North Dakota won't last long, as workers will move there from jobless Nevada. There's been a lot of concern that the housing crisis has halted this important adjustment mechanism. According to the Census Bureau, the number of people moving across state lines has plummeted in recent years. Problem is: It's just not true.
But you've got to be a true data hound to figure out just what is going on. Fortunately, my Penn colleague (and fellow Aussie economist) Greg Kaplan, in a recent paper with Sam Schulhofer-Wohl, has done the necessary detective work. It's a fun story of just how deeply you need to dig before you can really trust even Census data. And Census data are among the best we have.
The interstate migration data come from the Census Bureau question asking whether you have moved in the past year, and if so, where from. But about one-in-ten people don't answer the question. Census Bureau statisticians impute answers for these folks, but how they do this imputation has changed. What they currently do makes a lot of sense: They find someone with similar characteristics who lived nearby, and impute answers based on whether that person had moved, and where from. But here's the problem: Prior to 2006, their imputations were typically based on people who lived a bit further away. Consequently, they were likely to impute that if you had moved, you had moved from a bit further away. This artificially made it a bit more likely that they would record you as having moved across state lines. Because interstate migration is still relatively rare, even a small number of extra moves across state lines had a big effect.
Bottom line: Much of the observed decline in interstate migration is due to a change from a bad imputation procedure, to something more realistic. The graph below shows how much this matters. The blue line is the official Census statistics. You can see just why macroeconomists were so worried about a dramatic decline in interstate migration. The red line shows the interstate migration rate among those people who actually answered the question about whether they had moved. And when you focus on the real data, interstate migration is slowing a little, but there's nothing dramatic here - it's just part of a longer-run trend.
I'm all for the Census Bureau improving their imputation techniques. But this time it led them to publish time series that are problematic in ways that are so hidden that no policy analyst could possibly have guessed what was going on. That's a real concern. And despite their detective work, the authors still don't know what caused the sharp shift around 1999.
Hat tip: Andrew Gelman.

        
The Myth of Multitasking
        
Would You Retire for a Buyout?
        
Does It Pay to Be Optimistic?
        
Why We Should Exit Ultra-Low Rates: A Guest Post by Raghuram Rajan
        
Unemployment Vs. Global Warming

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CENSUS (95%); LABOR SHORTAGES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STATISTICAL METHOD (75%); TRENDS (70%) census data; employment

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



419 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Liberals and the Deficit Commission

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: The Simpson-Bowles recommendations put the left's pragmatism to the test.

 BODY:
My take on Alan Simpson and Erskine Bowles' deficit reduction proposal closely aligns with Ramesh Ponnuru's comments - which is to say, I'm largely favorable, with some caveats surrounding our shared hobbyhorse of pro-family tax reform. And having used this week's column to gripe about Republican policy unseriousness, I'm heartened that the deficit proposal has been greeted respectfully, not only by right-of-center journalists and economists, but by some actual Republican politicians as well.
Jonathan Chait writes that this is just because Republicans are so crazy, they effectively held the commissioners hostage:The fair thing, it seems to me, would be to craft a solution that meets halfway between Republican and Democratic priorities. Of course a plan like that wouldn't pass, because it would violate the GOP's prime directive to oppose tax increases in any and all circumstances, and Democrats wouldn't jump out to endorse a proposal that couldn't get any Republican support.
Anticipating this dynamic, the commissioners crafted a plan that's tilted, overwhelmingly, toward Republican priorities. About three-quarters of the savings come from spending cuts. And the one-quarter that comes from increased revenue comes through an overhauled tax code with lower marginal rates and corporate income tax rates - that is, something that is a fairly good deal for conservatives on its own terms.To Chait's immense credit, he also says: "My provisional view is that the plan is probably supportable. The long-term deficit really is a big problem." (This is not the consensus view of the liberal commentariat, to put it mildly.) But I want to press him a bit on the specifics. One of Chait's long-running themes is the idea that on size-of-government issues, conservatives are ideologues and liberals are pragmatists: That is, conservatives believe in smaller government as an end unto itself, whereas liberals only believe in bigger government when it's accomplishing something meaningful for the common good. And one of his secondary themes is that the real "essence" of American conservatism isn't deficit reduction, but rather "opposition to the downward redistribution of income" - whereas liberals, of course, see downward redistribution as precisely the kind of welfare-enhancing thing that government ought to do.
These are both disputable premises. But if we were to concede them, then it suddenly becomes much harder to justify Chait's claim that the Bowles-Simpson plan is "tilted, overwhelmingly, toward Republican priorities." Yes, it's tilted toward spending cuts, and away from tax increases. But look at the way it cuts spending and raises taxes. It means-tests Social Security benefits for high earners and raises the cap on taxable income, while also adding a larger benefit for the poorest seniors. Its hypothetical discretionary spending reductions don't come from anti-poverty programs, for the most part: They come from cutting the defense budget, cutting the federal workforce, cutting farm subsidies, etc. It raises tax revenue by reducing tax credits and deductions that almost all overwhelmingly benefit the affluent. (This would be especially true in the scenario I'd prefer, in which the child tax credit and the earned-income tax credit stick around.) It would cap revenue at 21 percent of G.D.P., which would be higher than any point in recent American history, and well above the average for the last thirty years. And it does all of this, as Chait himself notes, while assuming that Obamacare - the capstone of the liberal welfare state - would remain essentially unchanged.
If you accept Chait's vision of a close-minded, Ayn Randian right and a pragmatic, non-ideological left, you would expect conservatives to be furious over the means-testing and loophole-closing, and liberals to be delighted to have a more redistributionist welfare state. Yet conservative reaction has been muted and respectful (with a notable exception, admittedly) while liberals have been flatly dismissive. Which suggests that maybe, just maybe, the American left has more of an ideological commitment to ever-rising government spending than Chait wants to admit.

        
The Canadian Example
        
Does America Need a Majority?
        
Was It Worth It?
        
From 'Grand New Party' to the Tea Party
        
Small Government or Flat Government?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); POLITICS (76%); TAX REFORM (74%); FAMILY (72%); WRITERS (71%); INCOME TAX (70%); CORPORATE TAX (65%) conservatism; Domestic Policy; liberalism; the deficit

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



420 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: Schnipper's To Open a Branch Near the Original Shake Shack

BYLINE: GLENN COLLINS


HIGHLIGHT: The Midtown burger joint will open on the north side of East 23rd Street next spring, a stone's throw from Madison Park

 BODY:
Last July, Danny Meyer's Shake Shack parachuted a new outpost of its premium-burger empire into Times Square only three blocks from Schnipper's Quality Kitchen, which had already been dispensing premium burgers in the neighborhood for 18 months. Now Schnipper's is returning the favor. 
Escalating Manhattan's quality-burger wars, Schnipper's has signed a lease in 1 Madison Avenue on the north side East 23d Street, virtually across the street from the original Shake Shack in Madison Square Park. 
Andrew Schnipper, the company's chief operating officer, denied that revenge played a part in the location of its first brand extension. "It's not lost on us that Shake Shack is across the park," he said, "and I suppose to some extent we're competition." He added: "But people near Madison Square Park love burgers. And there are long lines at Shake Shack. And we're indoors. We're not shooting to capture their overflow, but it could happen." Mr. Schnipper said the 4,800 square-foot space is planned to open in May with 125 seats. "We welcome them to the Madison Square Park neighborhood," said David Swinghamer, the chief executive of Shake Shack. "Along with Eataly, SD26 and the new restaurants that have opened recently, it's just indicative of what's happening in this growing, exciting area." 
The new Schnipper's outpost will not offer breakfast, as the mothership does, but the restaurant will be open from 10:30 a.m. to 11 p.m. "Basically, it will be our same menu, though we'll tweak it a bit," he said. Schnipper's offers a hamburger for $5.50 and shakes for $5.99. At Shake Shack, a Shackburger costs $4.75 and a shake is $5.25. Although some had predicted that the hyper-busy Shake Shack at 44th Street and Eighth Avenue would cannibalize traffic in Schnipper's at 41st Street and Eighth Avenue, "Shake Shack has had no impact at all on our business, and we love what they do," Mr. Schnipper said. Mr. Swinghamer of Shake Shack commented that "whenever I walk by Schnipper's, they're doing quite well - and we are too." Currently there are five year-round Shake Shacks, and two seasonal stands at Citi Field and Saratoga Race Course. And more Schnipper's locations are on the drawing board. "The plan is to expand in New York," Mr. Schnipper said, "and possibly beyond. Our concept works really well in this economy."

        
Upper East Side Shake Shack Is Open 
        
Danny Meyer Helps Ralph Lauren Make Burgers on the Left Bank
        
Shake Shack Is Coming to NoLIta
        
Burger Bound, From Corner to Shack
        
Tabla Is Closing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (65%); BRANDING (54%) burgers; Madison; Schnipper's Quality Kitchen; Shake Shack; Union Square Hospitality Group; Restaurants

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (51%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (51%); C (BMV) (51%); 8710 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



421 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Backdating Scandal Ends With a Whimper

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The S.E.C. and the Justice Department investigated more than 100 companies over whether the dates of stock-options awards had been manipulated, but in the end, only five executives received prison terms.

 BODY:
Before Lehman Brothers imploded, before Bernard L. Madoff's arrest and before the global economy's near-collapse, there was the backdating of stock options.
On Wednesday, a federal judge in Los Angeles sentenced Bruce E. Karatz, the former chief executive of KB Home, to five years of probation. His case is likely to be the last criminal trial relating to backdating, a scandal that ensnared dozens of executives over allegations that the dates of stock-option awards had been manipulated to enrich recipients. 
When the first cases emerged in 2006, they looked like low-hanging fruit for federal prosecutors. The Securities and Exchange Commission and the Justice Department investigated more than 100 companies. Internal investigations by companies led to scores of financial restatements and dozens of executive dismissals. But on the criminal front, the government had mixed results, winning several trials but also losing a number of prominent cases. In all, 12 executives across the country were received criminal sentences, five of them prison terms. The others were sentenced to probation.
"These prosecutions went out with a whimper rather than a bang," said Christopher J. Clark, a criminal defense lawyer at Dewey LeBoeuf who has done work on backdating cases. "With few convictions and no substantial sentences, juries and the courts simply did not agree with the government's position that stock option backdating represented a serious financial crime."
That was not the view of several judges. Judge Jed S. Rakoff of Federal District Court in Lower Manhattan gave the longest prison term to an executive charged with conduct related to backdating. In September 2009 he sentenced James J. Treacy, the former chief operating officer of Monster Worldwide, to two years in prison for improperly accounting for backdated stock options. "I don't have any doubt the jury's verdict was correct," Judge Rakoff said at sentencing. "It is appalling; it is disgusting that this practice went on." Mr. Treacy's conviction is on appeal. 
The backdating scandal was set off in 2005 after Erik Lie, a finance professor at the University of Iowa, published a study that showed an uncanny number of cases where companies granted stock options to executives right before a sharp increase in their stocks. The S.E.C. and The Wall Street Journal then began to look at individual companies.
"I never expected my study would lead to anything," Professor Lie said. "At the time we published the paper, it wasn't clear that regulators would view the activity as illegal."
That was a major challenge for prosecutors in these cases: The practice, which involved complex accounting, disclosure and tax issues, was not necessarily illegal. It was not the backdating that was against the law, but the improper accounting of it that was illegal.
The backdating scandal has created a fugitive - Jacob Alexander, known as Kobi, the former chief executive of Comverse Technology, who fled to Namibia under suspicion of conspiracy, securities fraud and other offenses.
On the civil side, the S.E.C. filed about 50 cases. The largest one involved Dr. William W. McGuire, the former chief executive of the UnitedHealth Group, who paid $468 million in civil fines and restitution to the company. 
Irrespective of whether stock-options backdating resulted in penalties, the practice turned out to be relatively common. About 150 companies issued restatements because of allegations of backdating stock options, a list that included Apple and Cablevision. In a study published last year, Professor Lie and a colleague concluded that about 29 percent of American businesses, more than 2,000 companies, that made stock-option grants to executives from 1996 through 2005 had manipulated them.
"The corporate crime lottery was never cranked up more than it was in the backdating cases," said Larry E. Ribstein, a law professor at the University of Illinois. "Concern about justice becomes most intense when you're talking about criminal violations, and you don't really don't want randomness."
Some of the cases also were hurt by missteps by prosecutors. The case against Henry T. Nicholas III, the co-chief executive of the Broadcom Corporation, one of the highest-profile backdating trials, fell apart after the judge found evidence of prosecutorial misconduct. 
On Wednesday, Judge Otis D. Wright II criticized prosecutors in Mr. Karatz's case. He sentenced Mr. Karatz to five years probation, rejecting the government's request to send him to prison for six and a half years. Judge Wright called the government's sentencing memorandum "mean-spirited and beneath this office" for suggesting that sentencing Mr. Karatz to home detention in his "24-room Bel Air mansion" would suggest "a two-tiered criminal justice system, one for the affluent and a second for ordinary citizens."
"To invite public ridicule and scorn on this institution, I think, is unspeakable," the judge said.
He said he "lost a lot of sleep over the right thing to do," but in sentencing Mr. Karatz to probation he noted the lack of evidence that his crime had damaged KB Home and its shareholders.

        
Behind the Fade-Out of Options Backdating Cases
        
Judges Taking Tougher Line on Bank Settlements

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (93%); BACKDATED STOCK OPTIONS (91%); PROBATION (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); JUDGES (90%); SCANDALS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); VERDICTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LAWYERS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Bruce Karatz; Comverse Technology Inc; Jacob Alexander; Jed S. Rakoff; Justice Department; KB Home; Options Backdating; Securities and Exchange Commission; UnitedHealth Group; William W. McGuire; KB Home|KBH|NYSE; Financial Services

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (84%); MONSTER WORLDWIDE INC (66%); KB HOME CORP (58%); DEWEY & LEBOEUF LLP (55%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (92%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%) Justice Department; KB Home; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: MWW (NYSE) (66%); KBH (NYSE) (58%) KB Home; KBH; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (66%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (58%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (58%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (55%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



422 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: Facebook Chooses North Carolina for New Data Center

BYLINE: MIGUEL HELFT


HIGHLIGHT: Facebook plans to build its second standalone data center in North Carolina where access to inexpensive power has attracted companies like Google and Apple before.

 BODY:
Following in the footsteps of Google, Yahoo and Microsoft, which are building ever-growing networks of data centers, Facebook said Thursday that it will build a new data center in Forest City, North Carolina. This will be the second data center that Facebook is building from the ground up. Its first facility in Prineville, Ore., is currently under construction and is expected to open next year. Facebook also leases data center space -- and in some cases entire data centers -- in several other locations, including Santa Clara, Calif.
"This project continues Facebook's strategy of moving from leased data centers to owned facilities that are customized to be more cost-effective and efficient," Barry Schnitt, a Facebook spokesman, said on the company's Web site.
In an accompanying press release, North Carolina Governor Bev Perdue said that facility is expected to create more than 250 construction during the 18-month building phase and will employ between 35 and 45 full time and contract workers once it is finished. Gov. Perdue said that Facebook would invest about $450 million in the new facility, which it may expand in the future depending on business needs. 
Facebook came under sharp criticism for its choice of Prineville for its first standalone data center, because the facility will get its electricity from PacificCorp., a utility that power is largely generated from coal. Facebook has defended its choice, saying the design of the Prineville facility is highly efficient, leading to energy savings that would offset its use of coal. 
According to the Environmental Protection Agency, about half of the electricity in Forest City, North Carolina, is coal-generated, in line with the national average. Another 39 percent, or roughly double the national average, comes from nuclear power. Five percent is from natural gas, which makes up nearly 19 percent of the national average. 
Several other Web companies, including Google and Apple, have chosen locations in North Carolina with a similar power mix for some of their data centers. 
"The team we will hire here will help us provide faster, more reliable and more robust service to people around the world who rely on Facebook to connect and share," said Tom Furlong, director of site operations for Facebook, in the press release. 
Facebook will receive approximately $17 million in local subsidies and tax breaks over 10 years, according to Tom Johnson, director of economic development for Rutherford County. Facebook will also be exempt from paying state taxes on all equipment, electricity and construction materials for the data centers. Mr. Johnson said he didn't know the value of those tax breaks and that it would be difficult to obtain on Thursday because of the Veteran's Day Holiday. He said that even with the tax breaks, Facebook will become the county's largest taxpayer after the local utilities and railway. Rutherford County, with a population of about 63,000, has an unemployment rate of 14.5 percent. It's once-dominant textile industry largely vanished in the late 1990s, Mr. Johnson said.

        
Kill an Energy Hog, Save Your Job
        
Location Services Have Not Caught On, Report Says
        
Using Facebook Updates to Chronicle Breakups
        
Kleiner Perkins and Partners Create $250 Million 'Social' Fund 
        
Facebook and Microsoft Team Up on Social Search 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (86%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (86%); TAX INCENTIVES (84%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNORS (73%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (69%); WEB SITES (69%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (65%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (62%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (50%) data center; energy; Facebook; Data Centers; Energy Efficiency; Environment; Facebook.com; Company News; Internet; social networking; Technology and Society

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (90%); GOOGLE INC (84%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Facebook.com

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (90%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

PERSON: SONNY PERDUE (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



423 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Is Groupon Good for Small Businesses?

BYLINE: MP MUELLER


HIGHLIGHT: Anticipating a slow August, Jeffrey's decided to run a Groupon promotion offering $75 of food and drink for $35.

 BODY:
A few months ago, a Groupon coupon arrived in my in-box from Jeffrey's Restaurant and Bar, a long-standing premier dining destination in Austin. My immediate reaction -- after savoring the vision of bellying up to a half-priced plate of crispy oysters on yucca chips with habanero-honey aioli -- was, "Wow, will discounting be good for this brand?"
As more and more people are learning, social coupons can give businesses exposure to an affluent and educated audience. Rob Solomon, Groupon's president, told me that the company's 25 million subscribers are mostly between 30 to 50, college-educated, men and women with a household income north of $50,000. The company is active in 100 markets in North America and just announced a deal with eBay that will highlight Groupon's regional daily deals on eBay's pages. 
The two-year-old service is so popular that the term "Groupon anxiety" is now an entry in the Urban Dictionary, and Forbes has called Groupon the fastest-growing Internet company ever (be sure to see the reader comments after the article, which include some interesting first-hand experiences). While there are no upfront costs for businesses that sign on with Groupon, the businesses do have to offer their products or services at a significant discount and they do have to split what consumers pay for the coupon with Groupon, typically 50-50.
So is Groupon a good deal for businesses?
Recently, Utpal Dholakia, associate professor of marketing at the Jones Graduate School of Business at Rice University, published a research report titled, "How Effective Are Groupon Promotions for Businesses?" The study was based on interviews with 150 businesses in 19 American cities and 13 product categories that ran Groupon promotions between June 2009 and August 2010.
Mr. Dholakia concluded that Groupon promotions were profitable for 66 percent of the businesses surveyed and unprofitable for 32 percent. He found that 42 percent of the businesses said they would not run another Groupon promotion. Mr. Solomon said that Groupon's data differs from Mr. Dholokia's, noting that that 95 percent of businesses choose to work with the company again. This debate, no doubt, will continue, as will the conversation about whether discounting is a good idea for a brand, particularly an upscale one.
As it happens, one of the participants in Mr. Dholokia's study was Ron Weiss, who has owned Jeffrey's with his wife, Peggy, for 35 years. Word of mouth and positive restaurant reviews fueled the restaurant's success for years. But then, during the last two years, sales declined. In the fine dining sector, Mr. Weiss said, the average profit margin is 6 to 8 percent. If sales are off by more than 20 percent, well, you can see a bit of red running from those tournedos. In 34 years, Jeffrey's had never done any discounting other than running happy hour specials on food items in the bar. "We've been known as expensive, a once-a-year special occasion and exclusive place, and we've been trying to change that perception," Mr. Weiss said. "We've added more lower costs options to our menu, made some interior changes, painted a bigger sign on the side of our building."
The summer months in Austin can be brutally hot, and Jeffrey's affluent regulars tend to hit the eject button and evacuate the city for cooler climes. Anticipating a slow August, Mr. Weiss decided to run a Groupon promotion offering $75 of food and drink for $35. The goal was to provide new customers with an experience that would make them want to return. Mr. Weiss set no limit on the number of coupons that could be sold.
Within 24 hours, 3,000 sold. The coupons were good for 90 days, which meant that at least 6,000 people were likely to be coming through the restaurant's doors in the following 90 days. The restaurant seats 130. "We were busy beyond belief every night," Mr. Weiss said. "Over 90 percent of the people who came in were very gracious and appreciative of what we were doing and spent extra money on food and wine. We also got a tremendous number of compliments and comments from customers saying they would probably not have come in otherwise without the discount and that they would return. It looks like it was at least a break even, maybe even a little more for us."
Mr. Weiss said his servers and valet people benefited the most from the experience because otherwise it may have been a slow period. "It challenged them because we were so busy," he said, "but they did a wonderful job and got compensated for it." And what about his regulars? "Most of ours were understanding when they couldn't get in or when it was crowded or noisier," he said. "I did get one e-mail from a woman who said, 'Oh my God, Jeffrey's has sold out. I brought Oliver Stone once to dine and now you're discounting!' I tried to explain to her that this was a business decision and put it in the context of the economic downturn. What I really wanted to say was, 'Have you seen Stone's latest movie, 'Wall Street, The Money Never Sleeps?' That's selling out.'"
I talked to one regular, Lisa Jasper, who has been frequenting Jeffrey's for the last 34 of its 35 years. Yes, she occasionally spent some time waiting for her usual "diva" table in the bar, but she said she loved the energy that the crowds brought. "And," said Ms. Jasper, "the upside is I know my friends, the waiters, are cranking and it's good for Jeffrey's, which I love."
Will Jeffrey's use Groupon again? Mr. Weiss said that, with the introduction to new customers and with an economy that may be rebounding, he hopes he won't need to try discounting again. Two to three days later, another high end Austin dining icon, Hudson's on the Bend, offered a Groupon promotion, so it appears that higher end restaurants are doing what they need to do to keep business up.
Has your business tried Groupon or another social coupon service? Were you able to retain the new customers it brought in? Was it worth the price and effort?
Next week: Branded will offer some more insights about social coupons from Jere Doyle, who is president of Eversave, another social coupon company, as well as guidelines on how small businesses can best use them.
MP Mueller is the founder of Door Number 3, a boutique advertising agency in Austin. Follow Door Number 3 on Facebook.

        
Should I Charge Less or Advertise More?
        
Getting Started: The Chicken-and-Egg Question 
        
Why Recoveries Can Be as Difficult as Recessions
        
Staying Alive: Meet the Partner
        
Explaining the Power of Open-Book Management

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DAILY DEAL WEBSITES (91%); RESTAURANTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); ELECTRONIC COUPONS (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); GROUP BUYING (78%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); SALES FIGURES (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); CITY LIFE (67%); CITIES (67%) discounting; Eversave; Groupon; Groupon anxiety; Jeffrey's; Jere Doyle; pricing; Utpal Dholakia; Branded

COMPANY: GROUPON INC (91%)

TICKER: GRPN (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541860 DIRECT MAIL ADVERTISING (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



424 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Schott's Vocab)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: Dutch Disease

BYLINE: BEN SCHOTT


HIGHLIGHT: A description of detrimental currency gains catalysed by a county's exploitation of natural resources, such as gas.

 BODY:
A description of detrimental currency gains catalysed by a county's exploitation of natural resources, such as gas.
Writing for Bloomberg, David Wainer and Alisa Odenheimer reported that some Israeli leaders are concerned that the country's growing gas industry might strengthen its currency, making "goods more expensive abroad":
Investors may already be bidding up the shekel, which is trading close to a two-year high against the dollar, in anticipation, said David Lubin, chief economist for emerging markets at Citigroup Inc. in London.
Emerging market countries including Brazil and Turkey are struggling with strengthening currencies as near-zero interest rates in the U.S., Europe and Japan spur record inflows into developing-nation stock and bond funds. In addition to the interest-rate differentials, Israel's economy may be undergoing a long-term shift to its current account and exchange rate because of the gas finds, Lubin said.
"The prospect of either substituting gas imports or exporting gas has the potential to make a very positive contribution to Israel's balance of payments," he said. That can strengthen the exchange rate, "which in turn might create some Dutch disease risks for the real economy."
The term "Dutch disease" was coined by The Economist magazine to describe a surge in income from new natural-gas fields in the Netherlands during the 1960s that triggered a currency gain and eroded other exporters' earnings. The term has since been applied to similar situations from Venezuela to Russia to describe how natural resource finds can hurt industry.

        
Coca-Cola Drought
        
Acmetal
        
Costa Fortune
        
Yanbianese
        
Mugabenomics

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXCHANGE RATES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); BOND FUNDS (71%); BONDS (71%) currency; economy; energy; gas; Israel; The Netherlands

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (84%); COCA-COLA CO (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (84%); C (BMV) (84%); 8710 (TSE) (84%); KO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



425 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: A Republican For Higher Taxes

BYLINE: WILLIAM D. COHAN


HIGHLIGHT: David Stockman, Reagan's budget guru, thinks Congress should let the Bush tax cuts lapse.

 BODY:
David Stockman has never been one to shy away from a roaring economic-policy debate. The former boy-wonder budget director in the first Reagan administration and the architect of Reagan's supply-side economic policies, Stockman has been very busy lately rejecting the tax-cutting recommendations of Republicans in Washington and arguing that we must get our fiscal house in order or watch our way of life continue its decline. As an "imperialist power," he says, America is in danger of being at "sundown." Stockman, who turned 64 on Wednesday, has always been ahead of the curve on tax and fiscal issues, and it appears that he is ahead of it again this time, too.
Starting with a much-discussed Op-Ed article in The Times last summer, and then more recently on "60 Minutes," "This Week" and "Parker Spitzer," Stockman has been calling for Congress to take serious and immediate steps to start closing the $1.25 trillion fiscal 2011 budget deficit through a series of unconventional actions, beginning with allowing the Bush tax cuts to expire, as they are scheduled to at the end of the year. One of his more cogent arguments has been that since about half of us don't pay income taxes anyway, letting taxes rise on the other half would be "progressive" (in tax parlance, this means it would hit hardest those with greater means to pay).
Stockman has also been talking about cutting military spending, cutting farm subsidies, cutting health-care spending, cutting Medicare payments and Social Security payments for the wealthiest Americans and for whom their financial impact is minimal - despite being rightly owed the money - in order to bring the deficits down and to show the world we are again serious about grappling with our proclivity toward fiscal mismanagement. "If you think you can continue this fiction indefinitely by borrowing money to hand to people so they can keep spending and that nothing will go wrong in the global currency market, the global fixed-income market, the monetary system, break-out commodity inflation - all the possible bad things that can happen - if you want to ignore all that, then spend a couple more years borrowing money and paying it back to taxpayers, because that's essentially what your doing," he told me on Wednesday. "These are deficit-financed tax cuts."
Not only is Stockman absolutely right about the need to reduce drastically our budget deficits - and on Wednesday the leaders of President Obama's bipartisan deficit commission floated a plan to reduce the deficit by $200 billion - he should be applauded for his courage to recognize how dangerous it is to our economic and national security to continue to rely on others (the Chinese, the OPEC nations, sovereign wealth funds and the like) to finance our fiscal irresponsibility. 
The deficit stems from our twin desires to live beyond our collective means and to act as policeman to the world, including by financing two hugely expensive wars of our own choosing. "This is not 1981," Stockman said on "This Week." "We've had a debt spree for 30 years. The economy has been badly injured. It is sunk under the weight of $50 trillion of debt that we've created publicly and privately. The recovery is over. It was weak. It was tepid. What we have now is day-to-day, 1-percent to 2-percent growth, if we're lucky. And so therefore government has to focus on paying its bills and not micro-managing or stimulating the economy." 
He concedes - as he and Reagan once argued - that raising taxes might curb some economic activity and result in lower tax revenues in the short term. "If you raise taxes on paper by $100 billion, maybe you'll get $90 billion or $85 billion," he said. "But it's just common-sense fact that when you raise the rates, you get more revenue. Normally, it's a bad thing to do. But we are in such dire shape that we have no choice but to accept the negative trade-off of some harm to the economy to start paying our bills."
Not surprisingly, few Washington power players agree with Stockman, despite his track record for prescience. Most Democrats, including the former governor of a large northeastern state I spoke with this week, believe it to be the absolutely wrong time to take money out of working people's pockets in the form of higher taxes or to cut entitlements. The economy is starting to show signs of life, they argue, so why snuff it out and send everything reeling again? Stay the course by extending the tax cuts, for at least another two years, until the economy is cooking along. If the price to preserve the tax cuts for the middle class is to also extend them for the rich, so be it. Budget deficit reduction can wait for another day.
The newly empowered Republicans, meanwhile, are still mesmerized by the tax-cutting mantra Stockman, Reagan and supply-side economists popularized a generation ago. "The two parties are so locked in to their dogmas," Stockman told me. "The Republicans think they won the election because the American public is violently opposed to taxes and that's where they put their flag in the ground. As they dig in, the Republicans have moved to the right and the Democrats have moved to the left. The need for consensus, though, on some kind of package of spending cuts and tax increases, is more urgent by the hour. But the political tide is going in the opposite direction." 
The conventional wisdom these days - especially given the recent comments of President Obama's top political adviser, David Axelrod - is that the lame-duck session of Congress should vote to allow the Bush tax cuts to be extended and that somehow things will get better through a combination of extreme and unconventional monetary and fiscal stimulus programs. Only a few people, like Stockman and some members of the deficit commission, are wondering if the time hasn't come to try something new.

        
Sailing the Wrong Way with QE2?
        
Should We Create Jobs or Balance the Budget?
        
Checking the Math on Health Care
        
Self-Image and Party Politics
        
Is Obama the 'Boss'?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (92%); BUDGETS (92%); TAX LAW (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); NEW ISSUES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); INFLATION (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); INCOME TAX (66%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%); MEDICARE (50%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (50%); CURRENCIES (50%) David Stockman; deficit; taxes; Cohan, William D; Budgets and Budgeting; Taxation; United States Economy; House of Representatives; Republican Party; William D. Cohan

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives; Republican Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%) Cohan, William D

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



426 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: For Sale: A $160,000 Apple Computer

BYLINE: NICK BILTON


HIGHLIGHT: A $160,000 Apple computer from 1976 is up for auction at Christie's, alongside rare manuscripts and books.

 BODY:
True computer nerds, do I have a deal for you!
Christie's, the tony auctioneer, is hawking a snazzy computer that it hopes will sell for between $159,800 and $239,700. You're probably wondering what kind of computer is worth close to a quarter million dollars? Let me tell you about its specs first.
This machine is loaded with only the best: It's got three capacitors (yes that's right, three), a whopping 8 kilobytes of random access memory, a printed circuit board with 4 rows A-D, whatever that means, and an Apple-1 motherboard.
So why would something that could barely power a game of Pong be worth so much? Well, this is one of the very first computers ever made by Apple, and is considered the first personal computer. What separated this computer from others was the fact that the motherboard came pre-assembled, whereas home computer owners of the past had to fit and solder the parts together themselves.
The Apple-1 computer was built and sold by Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak, Apple's co-founders, in 1976 for $666.66 - the strange price was put into effect because Mr. Wozniak liked repetitive numbers. (An inflation calculator determines that price is equivalent to $2560 in today's dollars.) It's estimated that only 200 of these computers were produced and sold before Apple moved onto the next model, the Apple II.
According to the auction Web site, this version of the Apple computer is number 82 of those made, and was hand built by Steve Wozniak and then "despatched from the garage of Steve Jobs' parents' house - the return address on the original packaging present here." (The Christie's catalog uses a British spelling of dispatched. )
The version for sale through Christie'ths includes "the original packaging, manuals, cassette interface and basic tape, early documentation and provenance, and a commercially rare letter from Steve Jobs."
The computer is part of a Nov. 23 auction in London of rare books and manuscripts that will quicken the heart of any rich geek. It includes a book by Charles Babbage, a collection of Alan Turing's published papers, an Enigma cypher machine and the patent specifications for an ENIAC, the first electronic digital computer.

        
Bill Campbell on Coaching RockMelt and Google vs. Apple
        
Apple Invites Developers to Submit Mac Apps
        
Will the Verizon iPhone Cripple Verizon?
        
Apple Looks to a New Computing Era
        
The Race to Dominate the Smartphone Market

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (91%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); ART DEALERS (89%); SMARTPHONES (89%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (78%); CIRCUIT BOARDS (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (75%); ELECTRONIC CAPACITORS (71%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); WEB SITES (64%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (60%) antique; Apple; auction; Jobs, Steven P; Wozniak, Stephen; Auctions; Computers and the Internet; Apple Inc; Christie's; Apple Inc|AAPL|NASDAQ; Consumer Electronics; Personal Computing; Silicon Valley

COMPANY: APPLE INC (94%); GOOGLE INC (51%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Apple Inc; Christie's

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (94%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (51%); VZC (LSE) (51%); VZ (NYSE) (51%) Apple Inc; AAPL; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (94%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (94%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (94%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (94%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (51%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (90%) Jobs, Steven P; Wozniak, Stephen

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



427 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Veterans Day Roundup

BYLINE: BERNIE BECKER


HIGHLIGHT: From Korea to Arlington, Germany to Ohio, a roundup of Veterans Day events.

 BODY:
Elected officials and other notables marked Veterans Day all around the world on Thursday, with President Obama making an appearance in South Korea and his wife, Michelle, surfacing in Germany. 
Back in the states, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Representative John A. Boehner -- who will likely be the top two in the presidential succession line come January -- both appeared at Arlington National Cemetery to mark a day once called Armistice Day in the U.S. (Why? The armistice that halted World War I was signed on Nov. 11, 1918.)
Here, then, is a roundup of some of Thursday's Veterans Day events:
-- The president -- speaking at an army base in Seoul, where he was for a G-20 summit -- called supporting veterans one of his highest priorities and gave special acknowledgments to Korean and American soldiers who fought in the Korean War roughly six decades ago. 
"Each of these men served their nation with incredible courage and commitment," Mr. Obama said of a group of Korean War veterans who had traveled to Seoul. "They left their homes and their families and risked their lives in what's often been called 'the forgotten war.' So today, we all want you to know this: We remember. We remember your courage. We remember your sacrifice. And the legacy of your service lives on in a free and prosperous Republic of Korea."
-- At Arlington, Mr. Biden congratulated Mr. Boehner for his likely ascension to House speaker and signaled that he, the president and the "soon-to-be speaker" were fully committed to ensuring that veterans get the assistance they need. 
"Ladies and gentlemen, our veterans' strength must be matched by our nation's support," the vice president said at an event that was also attended by, among others, Eric Shinseki, a retired general and the secretary of veterans affairs. 
"Our soldiers today are fighting different wars than their fathers and grandfathers fought," Mr. Biden added. "They're suffering different wounds. But our obligation remains the same, to train and equip those who we send into harm's way and to give them every bit of care that they've earned and deserve when they return home."
In addition to his appearance at the cemetery, Mr. Boehner, an Ohio Republican, issued the following statement: "Today, we pause to pay proper respect to the heroes who have donned the uniform of our country and - along with their families - sacrificed so much so that we may enjoy the blessings of freedom. As we keep faith with our former defenders, we also pray for our sons and daughters overseas in Iraq, Afghanistan, and around the world standing guard in defense of our freedom." 
-- For her part, Michelle Obama made a surprise appearance at Ramstein Air Base in Germany, according to the Associated Press, where she helped serve the fare at a special Veterans Day meal. Mrs. Obama -- who was on her way back home after traveling through Asia with the president -- also met with wounded service members at a nearby medical center. 
She told the group at Ramstein that she missed her daughters, Malia and Sasha, terribly. "But it is a thrill to be here with you guys, because we are so grateful to all of you," she added, according to the A.P. "Not just our servicemen and women, but their kids, wives, husbands and parents."
-- And finally, former President George W. Bush made a Veterans Day appearance of his own at the National Museum of the U.S. Air Force in Ohio. According to the A.P., Mr. Bush again refused to criticize Mr. Obama, his successor, but did bring up his recently released memoir. 
"I've really come to praise the veterans, not to sell my book. But if I sell a couple of copies, that's OK, too," said Mr. Bush, who also commented that he does miss being commander-in-chief, even if he doesn't long for Washington.

        
Administration Economic Adviser Blasts Boehner on Stimulus
        
Happy Birthday, Mr. President
        
Obama and Boehner Spar on Tax Cuts
        
Welcome to Your New Home: The Obamas at the White House
        
Blogtalk: Bush 'Appeasement' Uproar

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VETERANS (90%); KOREAN WAR (90%); FAMILY (87%); ARMIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); WORLD WAR I (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ARMED FORCES (74%); CEMETERIES (71%) barack obama; George W. Bush; joe biden; john boehner; michelle obama; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF TWENTY (G20) (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN BOEHNER (89%); JOE BIDEN (89%); MICHELLE OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); ERIC K SHINSEKI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



428 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Arctic Drilling Poses Untold Risks, Study Concludes

BYLINE: LESLIE KAUFMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Uncertainties about sea ice, storms, equipment and the potential for an effective spill response in the remote region loom large, a Pew study says.

 BODY:
Now that the moratorium on deepwater oil and gas drilling has been lifted by the Obama administration, the battle for the Arctic is heating up again.
The suspension on deep-sea drilling was of course a reaction to the disastrous blowout in the Gulf of Mexico that produced the biggest offshore oil spill in the nation's history, gushing from April to July. The moratorium was lifted last month, about six weeks before a Nov. 30 expiration date. 
As soon as it was lifted, my colleague Cliff Krauss reported last week, Royal Dutch Shell began lobbying eagerly to get final approval for it long-delayed plans to drill in Alaska's Beaufort Sea. The petro-giant is paying for national advertising as part of a campaign to convince the public and the government that it is taking the kind of safety precautions that would prevent the kind of catastrophe that unfolded in the gulf from happening in the Arctic.
Yet the Arctic is well known to be more fragile ecologically than the gulf. And on Thursday, the Pew Environmental Group released a detailed report brimming with charts and maps that explores the question of how well the government and industry would be equipped to deal with a blowout and spill there. The report concludes, not so well. And here are some word-for-word highlights on why:
 The Arctic Ocean is a unique operating environment, and the characteristics of the Arctic OCS [outer continental shelf] - its remote location, extreme climate and dynamic sea ice-exacerbate the risks and consequences of oil spills while complicating cleanup. Oil spill contingency plans often underestimate the probability and consequence of catastrophic blowouts, particularly for frontier offshore drilling in the U.S. Arctic Ocean.
 The impact of an oil well blowout in the U.S. Arctic Ocean could devastate an already stressed ecosystem, and there is very little baseline science upon which to anticipate the impact or estimate damage. Oil spill cleanup technologies and systems are unproved in the Arctic Ocean, and recent laboratory and held trials (including the Joint Industry Project) have evaluated only discrete technologies under controlled conditions.
So the researchers concluded that far more study is needed of the Arctic marine ecosystem. Modeling should be devised to project the trajectory of oil flow in sea ice conditions should a spill occur, they added. 
And deployment exercises should be conducted to determine how effective a spill response would be in such a remote, sparsely populated region "before introduction of new offshore oil spill risks," the report said. (The study includes a detailed critique of Shell's planning scenarios in the Chukchi and Beaufort Seas.) 
In other words, the study's message is that the Arctic is not ready for such deepwater drilling operations.
That conclusion did not go down well with Arctic drilling proponents. "I disagree with Pew's insistence on an unspecified moratorium on Arctic development, because the perfect set of conditions simply never occurs," Senator Mark Begich, Democrat of Alaska, said in a statement. "I'll continue to push the Obama administration for responsible Arctic development now to help meet America's energy, national and economic security."

        
 Deadline Slips on an Oil Spill Report
        
On Our Radar: A Debate Challenge for Charles Koch
        
Britain Will Let Chevron Drill Deep in North Sea
        
New Drilling Rules but No Word on Moratorium
        
On Our Radar: Hardball on Drilling Ban

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); OIL SPILLS (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (86%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); MARINE BIOLOGY (77%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (77%); REMEDIATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); LOBBYING (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (72%); HISTORY (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); APPROVALS (55%) arctic; Arctic sea ice; Beaufort Sea (Geo); blowout; Chukchi Sea; deepwater horizon accident; deepwater oil drilling; Gulf of Mexico; offshore oil and gas industry; oil spill; Pew Environment Group; Royal Dutch Shell; Begich, Mark; Offshore Drilling and Exploration; Royal Dutch Shell Plc; Arctic Regions; Beaufort Sea; Royal Dutch Shell Plc|RDS.A|NYSE; Business; Politics and Policy; Science

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: Royal Dutch Shell Plc

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (83%); RDSA (AMS) (83%); RDS.B (NYSE) (83%); RDS.A (NYSE) (83%) Royal Dutch Shell Plc; RDS.A; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (83%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%) Begich, Mark

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); ARCTIC OCEAN (94%) ARCTIC (99%); UNITED STATES (92%) Arctic Regions; Gulf of Mexico

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



429 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 118 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading: Bernanke, Unsung Hero

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Links from around the Web.

 BODY:
 Ben S. Bernanke, unsung hero: No credit for a man whose predecessor got no blame. Taiwan's standard of living surpassed Japan's this year. An animated rap video take on the Chinese-American currency battle. (Warning: Some PG-13 language is involved.) The United States government is trying to deport the wrong people: An increasing share of cases in which Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) has sought to remove individuals from the United States are being rejected by the immigration courts. Tim Harford's list of economists on Twitter. The pharmaceutical lobby spent a lot of money trying to get Democrats re-elected this year. Nearly 70 percent of taxpayers filed their taxes electronically in 2010.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); LOBBYING (87%); DEPORTATION (86%); LIVING STANDARDS (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (66%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); TAIWAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



430 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Guidance on Dodd-Frank's Diversity Clause

BYLINE: KEVIN ROOSE


HIGHLIGHT: A part of the financial overhaul proposed by Representative Maxine Waters requires banks and other federal contractors to ensure diversity, but it does not offer concrete guidelines.

 BODY:
As Wall Street scrambles to comply with the regulations of the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul, one little-noticed provision has executives scratching their heads.
The statute, included in Section 342 of the bill, creates 20 Offices of Minority and Women Inclusion at the various regulatory agencies, including the Treasury, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the 12 Federal Reserve banks and the newly created Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
Once established, the offices are charged with monitoring the diversity at the agencies as well as at any contractors or subcontractors, including law firms, accounting firms and investment banks. These contracts, totaling in the billions a year, are typically awarded to private firms for services like debt issuances and sales of government assets, as well as more general advisory services.
Section 342 was proposed by Representative Maxine Waters, Democrat of California, who argued that putting diversity regulators in the agencies would help to correct racial and gender imbalances at Wall Street firms, as well as in the subcontracting process.
"Qualified minority- and women-owned businesses continue to be excluded from contracting opportunities made available by the government's historic intervention at banks and other financial institutions," Ms. Waters said in a floor speech in 2009.
According to the bill's text, if an agency's compliance director concludes that a contractor has not made "a good faith effort to include minorities and women in its work force," the agency head is authorized to cancel the contract, refer the matter to the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs or take other unspecified remedial actions.
The clause also requires the agencies to recruit at historically black universities and women's colleges, sponsor job fairs in urban communities and submit detailed yearly reports summarizing their diversity efforts to Congress.
Republican lawmakers criticized the provision when it was introduced, calling it another example of big-government social engineering.
"The problem with this clause is that it's largely redundant," said Lawrence Z. Lorber, an employment law specialist at the law firm Proskauer Rose. "Most of these firms and agencies are already covered by multiple nondiscrimination laws. If you require more extensive disclosure of diversity practices, what you'll get is a lot of very long reports essentially saying the same thing."
Mark A. Calabria, director of financial regulation studies at the Cato Institute, called the provision "a wild card."
"The language of the clause is so vague that it could do nothing at all," Mr. Calabria said. "But in the hands of a regulator who really wanted to make an issue out of diversity hiring, it could have a substantial impact."
While Section 342 would require investment banks and other contractors to ensure "fair inclusion and utilization" of minorities and women, it does not define the term, nor does it offer concrete guidelines for firms seeking to comply with the regulations. Also unclear is how the clause's requirements will differ from existing affirmative action laws, like those enforced by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
The Dodd-Frank bill gives agency administrators until late January to appoint compliance directors who will develop standards for their agencies.
Several large banks declined to comment on their Section 342 compliance plans, and a Fed spokesman said only: "We're currently working on setting up these offices according to the requirements of the Dodd-Frank bill."
For guidance, banks and their compliance officers are looking to a similar clause in the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008, which requires Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Home Loan Banks to submit finely detailed reports on the progress of their diversity efforts. Some suspect that Section 342 will impose similar requirements.
Karen L. Corman, a partner at Skadden, Arps who specializes in labor law, said that investment banks, law firms and other affected companies would have to find ways to take "meaningful views" of their work forces in the coming months, but believed it was unlikely that the regulations would result in quotas or other hard-line remedies.
"Until these regulations come out, we don't know what the standards and remedies are going to look like," Ms. Corman said. "Firms clearly need to review their diversity profiles and minority outreach programs to make sure everything's within a range of acceptability. But beyond that, there's not a lot of guidance."
Despite the uncertainty around Section 342, some executives are looking forward to increased scrutiny of Wall Street's hiring and subcontracting processes.
"No legislation is perfect," said Jack Foster, managing director at CastleOak Securities, a minority-owned boutique investment firm. "But this is a good step forward for giving firms like us a chance to compete."
At the very least, said Susan Ganz, president of the Financial Women's Association of New York, a professional organization for women in banking and business, "it's an opportunity to have the conversation about diversity in the financial sector. And maybe it will lead to action."
Section 342 of the Dodd-Frank Act 

        
The S.E.C., Whistle-Blowers and Sarbanes-Oxley 
        
The Diplomacy of Cross-Border Bankruptcy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (91%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ACCOUNTING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); WOMEN (78%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); CONSUMER LENDING (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (75%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); POLITICS (72%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (71%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (69%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (68%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); LABOR FORCE (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (63%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (63%) Dodd-Frank Act; Maxine Waters; Offices of Minority and Women Inclusion; Section 342; Waters, Maxine; Banking and Financial Institutions; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection A; Hiring and Promotion; Financial Services; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (72%); PROSKAUER ROSE LLP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%); OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (57%); BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (72%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (72%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: MAXINE WATERS (90%) Waters, Maxine

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



431 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Names Transition Team

BYLINE: NICHOLAS CONFESSORE


HIGHLIGHT: Governor-elect Andrew M. Cuomo names the people who will help him put together his administration and tackle the state's financial problems.

 BODY:
Andrew M. Cuomo announced on Thursday who would lead his formal transition efforts as well as the membership two committees of transition advisers, encompassing a wide cross-section of business, labor and political leaders.
In a press release, Mr. Cuomo said that his lieutenant governor-elect, Robert Duffy, the Rochester mayor, would be the chairman and director of his transition team. Joining Mr. Duffy as co-chairs will be Congresswoman Nydia Velazquez; Joanie Mahoney, the Onodaga County executive; H. Carl McCall, a former state comptroller; and Felix Rohatyn, the financier who helped lead a bailout of New York City during the 1970s fiscal crisis. 
Mr. Cuomo also named members to a "Council of Economic and Fiscal Advisers" that he said would help guide his thinking on the budget both during and after the transition. 
A second group, called the Committee on Economic Development and Labor, will help Mr. Cuomo recruit individuals to the executive branch. That group includes among its 31 announced members all four leaders of the Legislature: Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver and Brian Kolb, the minority leader, as well as John L. Sampson and Dean Skelos, the Democratic and Republican leaders in the State Senate.
A spokesman said that the committees would meet for the first time next week.
A full listing of the announced members:The Council of Economic and Fiscal Advisors includes: Ken Adams, President & C.E.O., Business Council of New York State Mario Baeza, Founder & Executive Chairman, Baeza Group Founder Pat Barrett, former Republican Chairman; C.E.O., Avis Byron Brown, Mayor of Buffalo Jim Chanos, President and Founder of Kynikos Associates Derrick D. Cephas, President & C.E.O., Amalgamated Bank Kenneth Chenault, C.E.O. & Chairman, American Express Glenn Dubin , Co-founder & C.E.O., Highbridge Capital Management Alexis Herman, former U.S. Secretary of Labor Denis Hughes, President, AFL-CIO Ken Langone, Founder, Chairman & C.E.O., Invemed Associates LLC Marc Morial, President, National Urban League Felix Rohatyn, Special Advisor to Chairman and C.E.O., Lazard; former Chairman, Municipal Assistance Corp Rossana Rosado, C.E.O., El Diario Peter J. Solomon, Solomon Company, L.P., former New York City Deputy Mayor of Economic Policy and Development Martin Sosnoff, Chairman and C.E.O., Atalanta Sosnoff Bob Wilmers, C.E.O., M&T Bank Deborah C. Wright, President and C.E.O. of Carver Bancorp Frank Zarb former Chairman of the NASDAQ stock exchange The Committee on Economic Development and Labor includes: Haejin Baek, President, Barclays Structured Finance Ruben Diaz, Jr., Bronx Borough President Jamie Dinan, C.E.O. York Capital Garry Douglas, Plattsburgh Chamber of Commerce Hazel Dukes, President, NAACP New York Rob Dyson, Chairman and C.E.O., The Dyson-Kissner-Moran Corp.; President, Dyson Foundation James Francis, Founder and C.E.O., Paradigm Asset Management; Member, NYC Partnership Barbarlee Diamonstein-Spielvogel Jim Gerace, President, New York Region, Verizon Barry Gosin, C.E.O., Newmark Knight Franks; Partnership for NYC Board Hakeem Jeffries, New York State Assembly John Johnson, President, Watertown Daily Times Brian Kolb, Minority Leader, New York State Assembly Kevin Law, Long Island Association John Liu, New York City Comptroller Edward Mangano, Nassau County Executive Howard Milstein, C.E.O., N.Y. Private Bank & Trust and Emigrant Bank Dean Norton, President, Farm Bureau Peter Rivera, New York State Assembly Van B. Robinson, President, Syracuse Common Council Lisa Rosenblum Senior Vice President, Cablevision. Asheesh Saksena, Senior Vice President, Time Warner Cable John Sampson, Conference Leader, New York State Senate Sheldon Silver, Speaker, New York State Assembly Dean Skelos, Minority Leader, New York State Senate Rob Simpson, C.E.O., CenterState Corporation for Economic Opportunity Jay Snyder, Principal, HBJ Investments, LLC; N.Y.S. Commission for Public Authority Reform Elinor Tatum, Publisher & Editor-in-Chief, Amsterdam News Peter Ward, President, New York Hotel & Motel Trades Council, AFL-CIO Danny Wegman, C.E.O., Wegmans Sandra Wilkin, Founder & President, Bradford Construction Corporation; President of the Women's Builder Council

        
The Concession Call That Still Hasn't Happened
        
Cuomo Already at Work on Transition
        
An Election Breakdown, the Day After
        
Buffalo, 11:27 A.M.
        
Amid Criticism of the M.T.A., a Show of Support

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICS (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); BAILOUTS (75%); BUDGETS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); COUNTIES (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (65%) Andrew M. Cuomo; Albany; Government & Politics

COMPANY: DYSON-KISSNER-MORAN CORP (60%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (53%); CARVER BANCORP INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS COUNCIL OF NEW YORK STATE (54%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (53%); CARV (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332311 PREFABRICATED METAL BUILDING & COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3448 PREFABRICATED METAL BUILDINGS & COMPONENTS (60%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (53%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (51%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (51%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (94%); KENNETH I CHENAULT (76%); NYDIA VELAZQUEZ (58%); ROBERT G WILMERS (56%); GLENN DUBIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



432 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: For 'Rock Band,' Final Gig at Viacom

BYLINE: THOMAS KAPLAN


HIGHLIGHT: Viacom plans to get out of the console video-game business by selling Harmonix, the maker of the popular music video game "Rock Band."

 BODY:
4:15 p.m. | Updated 
The show is over for Rock Band - at least at Viacom.
Rock Band may have been a hit among video game critics and a source of considerable buzz, but as a business, it has been a dud for the media conglomerate, which said on Thursday it was in talks to sell Harmonix, the maker of the music video game.
"Harmonix has and will continue to create terrific video games, but for us, it is about focus," said Philippe Dauman, Viacom's chief executive, in a conference call with analysts. "The console games business requires an expertise and scale that we don't have."
The announcement came as the company reported third-quarter earnings that surpassed the expectations of Wall Street analysts, as its flagship MTV has enjoyed a renaissance as a cultural tastemaker and an upswing in ratings. In the quarter, revenue rose 5 percent, to $3.3 billion. Excluding $260 million in write-offs on the value of Harmonix, Viacom earned 75 cents a share, above the average of 70 cents a share forecast by analysts polled by Bloomberg.
The gains at Viacom were almost solely due to its cable networks, which in addition to MTV include Nickelodeon, Comedy Central, VH1 and BET. Its film unit, Paramount Pictures, reported only a modest 1 percent increase in revenue, to $1.23 billon. In cable, revenue grew 8 percent, to $2.1 billion, which included a 7 percent gain in advertising revenue, to $1.17 billion, and a 10 percent jump in fees from distributors, to $799 million.
The increase in advertising bodes well for the direction of the media economy, and other media companies, like Time Warner and the News Corporation, have also reported recent gains in advertising.
"From our vantage point, the economy is improving," said Mr. Dauman. "With the noise of the election season behind us, I believe that barring a disruptive event, the pace of economic recovery will accelerate."
The growth in revenue from affiliate fees, the payments that distributors like cable and satellite companies pay to carry channels, inevitably raised questions about how long those gains can continue, given the increasing ability of consumers to watch high-quality video online. The threat of customers' shutting off their cable service, a phenomenon known as cord cutting, is perhaps the most salient issue right now for major media conglomerates.
Mr. Dauman, echoing the comments of other media executives recently, said: "We don't see cord cutting as affecting our business. The economy, obviously, holds down the growth in distribution. As the economy recovers, we expect to see the number of television subscribers in the U.S. grow at a better clip than it has over the last year and a half or so."
Mr. Dauman said ratings at MTV were up 28 percent over the previous year as it rode the hit reality show "Jersey Shore," the highest-rated series ever for the network. And the enduring position of two Comedy Central shows, "The Daily Show" and "The Colbert Report," in the cultural firmament has placed the company once again at the center of the mass culture.
"Right now, we have the most talked about, blogged about and tweeted about shows, artists, personalities and cultural phenomena," said Mr. Dauman.
As for video games, the Rock Band franchise has not suffered for lack of attention. Viacom bought Harmonix in 2006 for $175 million in cash, and two weeks ago, released Rock Band 3 to positive reviews. But in the third quarter, Harmonix reported a loss of $65 million before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.
Those results did not come out of the blue, considering Harmonix has been identified for some time as a drag on Viacom's earnings.
"Being in the video game space was never strategically necessary to begin with," said Frederick Moran, an analyst for the Benchmark Company. "And since Rock Band as a product has matured, it now makes even less sense."

        
Flush With Cash, Will Apple Go Shopping?
        
Thwarted Ambitions for a Financial Tycoon

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POP & ROCK (91%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (91%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY REVENUES (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (74%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); CABLE TELEVISION (73%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (55%) Activision; Electronic Arts; Harmonix; Rock Band; Ubisoft Entertainment; Viacom; Computer and Video Games; MTV Networks; Viacom Inc; Viacom Inc|VIA.B|NYSE; Media; Technology; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: VIACOM INC (92%); NEWS CORP (65%)

ORGANIZATION: Harmonix; MTV Networks; Viacom Inc

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (92%); NWS (NASDAQ) (65%); NWS (ASX) (65%) Viacom Inc; VIA.B; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (92%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (65%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (65%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (65%)

PERSON: PHILIPPE P DAUMAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



433 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: On Deficit Proposals, a Failure of Will and Not Ideas

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Blue-ribbon panel after blue-ribbon panel has advocated some variation of the same set of fiscal policy reform ideas. If there is so much wonkish agreement, why hasn't anything changed?

 BODY:
Forgive me if my expectations are low that Congress will soon adopt any of the latest recommendations for getting the country's fiscal house in order. But we've seen all these ideas before.
Yesterday, President Obama's deficit reduction commission released some of its major proposals for reducing federal spending and raising tax receipts. The blueprint is generally five-pronged:1. Enact tough discretionary spending caps and provide $200 billion in illustrative domestic and defense savings in 2015.2. Pass tax reform that dramatically reduces rates, simplifies the code, broadens the base, and reduces the deficit.3. Address the "Doc Fix" not through deficit spending but through savings from payment reforms, cost-sharing, and malpractice reform, and long-term measures to control health care cost growth.4. Achieve mandatory savings from farm subsidies, military and civil service retirement.5. Ensure Social Security solvency for the next 75 years while reducing poverty among seniors. [Specific tools include a higher retirement age.]Will anything come of these proposals?
It's hard to say. As Bruce Bartlett and others have documented, this is not nearly the first blue-ribbon, presidentially appointed panel tasked with coming up with ideas for fixing what fiscally ails us. In fact over the last several decades there have been at least a dozen such commissions.
Even today, President Obama's National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform is not the only deficit-savior game in town. The Bipartisan Policy Center has its own Debt Reduction Task Force, led by a former Senate Budget Committee chairman, Pete Domenici, and a former White House budget director and Federal Reserve vice chairwoman, Alice Rivlin.
Then there is the Pew-Peterson Commission on Budget Reform. And the U.S. Public Interest Research Group (U.S. PIRG) and the National Taxpayers Union have also recently released their own helpful list of potential fiscal reforms.
Many of these task forces, panels and commissions tasked with saving the nation's fiscal future have, not surprisingly, come up with the exact same brilliantly obvious ideas. Generally they involve simplifying the tax code and broadening the tax base, as well as making health care expenditures more efficient and cutting various other categories of discretionary spending.
So why are we still in the same mess?
Because the country's budget woes are not a failure of wonkish ingenuity, but a failure of political willpower.
The fact that the government is, and has been, spending more than it brings in through taxes is well known, and thanks to a massive, intricately detailed report published regularly by the Congressional Budget Office, we also know just about every possible combination of spending cuts and/or tax increases that will add up to a more balanced budget.
The problem is that just about every potential solution to the long-term fiscal crisis involves severe short-term political pain, in the form of fewer services or higher taxes. And the people in charge of selling these ideas -- members of Congress -- know that their careers are aligned on the short-term time-frame, not the long-term one.
So the question becomes: How do you get politicians elected on a short-term basis to think about the long-term good of the country, given that short-term and the long-term goals appear to be at odds?
A few months back I wrote about how some other countries have tried to realign the incentives of their politicians to force them to think about broader horizons. Does delegating fiscal responsibilities to unelected technocrats, who are not subject to the whims of angry voters, help? What about docking the pensions of retired politicians who voted for something fiscally foolish when they were in office?
Alas, the lesson from other countries seems to be that the best way to make politicians care about long-term problems is to collapse the long-term into the short-term. That is, have a crisis, in which that far-off fiscal doomsday is pushed forward to today.
And indeed, if you look at countries that have overhauled their political systems to promote long-term fiscal thinking, you'll see that they seem to have done so either because a crisis was imminent, or one was fresh in their minds. And many of the public economists I've spoken with, at the Tax Policy Center and elsewhere, say that American politicians may similarly be unlikely to enact major fiscal reforms until the end seems nigh here as well.
Until then, we can look forward to more well-meaning commissions.

        
Getting Today's Politicians to Think About Tomorrow's Problems
        
What We're Reading: Dirty Money
        
Another View on the States' Budget Plight
        
The Next Global Problem: Portugal
        
Will the U.S. Become the Next Ireland?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX REFORM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); TAX INCREASES (76%); RETIREMENT AGE (73%); AGING (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (68%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (53%) budget deficit; fiscal policy; Fiscal Policy Council; politics; Federal Budget (US)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); PETE DOMENICI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



434 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 292 words

HEADLINE: Deutsche Bank Chief Says Capital Rules Must Be Global and Fair

BYLINE: SEWELL CHAN


HIGHLIGHT: If Basel III standards are not put into effect evenly around the world, warns Josef Ackermann, "it would create an uneven playing field."

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea - Josef Ackermann, chief executive of Deutsche Bank and head of the Institute of International Finance, said on Thursday that the financial regulatory overhaul under way in much of the world, through the Dodd-Frank overhaul in the United States and the Basel III bank capital requirements, had to be put into effect in a fair way. 
"We all know we need a more robust financial infrastructure, and I think we all very much support what is being decided now in the Basel committee," Mr. Ackermann said here at the G-20 Business Summit, a gathering of top executives running concurrently with the Group of 20 meeting. 
The key question, Mr. Ackermann said, is whether countries "are going to implement it on a global scale." If the Basel III standards are not put into effect evenly, he added, "it would create an uneven playing field."
Mr. Ackermann also said that derivatives had been depicted too broadly as dangerous financial instruments.
"We should not kill these products before we understand the impact on the real economy," he said. "Many of these products are very useful, they are creating wealth and prosperity in the world."
He also called for global convergence on accounting standards and for clear definitions of systemically important financial institutions. And he expressed worry about countries going their own way on taxing the financial sector for the costs of bailouts. 
"We are running the risk of a competitive situation where certain countries are now trying to get money back form the financial system," he said, "and by doing this are actually jeopardizing the contributions of the financial system to real growth in the economy."

        
Barclays Chief Says Basel III Is Fair 
        
Bankers Say Regulatory Crackdown Must Move Slowly

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); BAILOUTS (73%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%) Basel III; capital; Deutsche Bank; G-20; Josef Ackermann; Financial Services

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (92%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCE (84%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (92%); DBK (FRA) (92%); DBK (BIT) (92%); DBETN (JSE) (92%); DBA (ASX) (92%); DB (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%)

PERSON: JOSEF ACKERMANN (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (74%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



435 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Schwarzman Takes on an Old Foe: Accounting Rules

BYLINE: SEWELL CHAN


HIGHLIGHT: At the G-20 summit, the Blackstone Group chief found time to take aim once more at one of his favorite subjects: mark-to-market accounting.

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea - Stephen A. Schwarzman, the chairman and chief executive of the Blackstone Group, is not happy about the Basel III regulations that leaders of the world's biggest economies are set to endorse on Friday. 
In a closed-door discussion at the G-20 Business Summit that included Vikram S. Pandit, the chief executive of Citigroup, and Thomas J. Donohue, president of the United States Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Schwarzman was critical of how the Basel III standards would enshrine mark-to-market accounting rules. 
Mark-to-market accounting, long one of the private equity magnate's bugbears, requires financial companies to value certain assets as though they had to be sold on the open market immediately. The rule -- put in place in the United States on the eve of the financial crisis -- has been criticized by many banking executives, who say that it greatly magnifies paper losses and makes companies look weaker than they really are.
"I'm not a bank, I'm a user of banks," Mr. Schwarzman said, "but because we use them so much I think about them a lot." 
He continued: 
Basel III has a lot to do with capital. Having more capital ostensibly to absorb losses, but one thing that people don't spend much time thinking about is mark-to-market accounting. If you look at a financial institution, they're pretty simple, they have a certain amount of leverage. If you have 3 percent of equity capital, your assets in a normal year will go up 10 percent and down 10 percent, and if you have only 3 percent, capital you'll be busted on a mark-to-market. It's not hard math. If you have 6 percent, you'll still be busted. If you have 10 percent, maybe you'll make it, but with nothing left. So it seems to me that the argument is much more interesting regarding how you mark the movement of assets.
Now, in the United States, we eliminated mark-to-market accounting in 1937, and why did we do that? We completely bankrupted our system before, and for some reason, somebody who liked something called transparency decided to have mark-to-market accounting come back, around the turn of the last century. So it in no way surprises me that we had a catastrophic collapse as a result of implementing mark-to-market accounting.
"When you have an asset that goes up and down" and "it's money good in any case," he continued, "to have that market, sometimes it's not a deep market, crash that asset, and destroy the capital of the banking system and create a panic, seems to me to be on its face completely unwise, but we're still doing it." 
Mr. Schwarzman, who is not known for being shy, added: " So just to keep people awake I thought I would put that on the table."

        
Where Wall Street Trades in Political Currency
        
Citi's Pandit Finds More Love (for Banks) Abroad

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); EXECUTIVES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (90%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%) Blackstone Group; Citigroup; Mark-to-Market Accounting; Stephen Schwarzman; United States Chamber of Commerce; Vikram Pandit; Financial Services; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (83%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); BX (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%)

PERSON: VIKRAM PANDIT (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (74%) UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



436 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: Citi's Pandit Finds More Love (for Banks) Abroad

BYLINE: SEWELL CHAN


HIGHLIGHT: Citigroup's chief executive is apparently a fan of "Quantum Leap." On the sidelines of the G-20 summit meeting, he says he's stumbled on a parallel universe where banks are loved, not shunned.

 BODY:
Mark Lennihan/Associated PressSEOUL, South Korea - Vikram S. Pandit, the chief executive of Citigroup, isn't feeling the love.
At a gathering here of top executives in the G-20 Business Summit, a parallel gathering alongside the meeting of leaders from the Group of 20 economic powers, Mr. Pandit suggested that the environment for financial companies in the United States was rather frosty
"I kind of feel like I'm living in parallel universes," Mr. Pandit said in a forum that included Peter Sands of Standard Chartered Bank and Stephen A. Schwarzman of the Blackstone Group. "I'm here in Korea and I feel this warmth and need and the sense of trying to have a dialogue with each other, but then when I get back to my real universe, it's cold in that universe." 
Mr. Pandit raised concerns about the new Basel III bank capital standards that the G-20 leaders were expected to endorse on Friday. Like many in the financial industry, he warned that the new standards, which will require banks to hold more and higher-quality capital, could dampen or distort economic growth without necessarily improving financial stability.
"We can all agree that higher capital ratios were in order, lower leverage, and I think we can all agree that higher-risk areas should require capital, and I think those are all the things that Basel is trying to address," he said. "In some ways it's done a pretty good job, but the real question comes around: Have we gotten it right in terms of calibration of risk? Have we gotten it right in terms of how we measure risk?" 
Mr. Pandit also said he believed the Basel process had left vulnerabilities, saying that the use of pro-cyclical capital buffers required improvement. " I don't think we've really addressed some of those things," he said.
He added: "We expect and we hope to see a lot more dialogue in getting to the right kind of calibration."

        
Schwarzman Takes on an Old Foe: Accounting Rules
        
Where Wall Street Trades in Political Currency

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%) Citigroup; Peter Sands; Standard Chartered; Stephen Schwarzman; Vikram Pandit; Financial Services; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); STANDARD CHARTERED AUSTRALIA LTD (57%); STANDARD CHARTERED BANK ZIMBABWE LTD (57%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (57%); STANDARD CHARTERED BANK (THAI) PCL (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); BX (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (57%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (57%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

PERSON: VIKRAM PANDIT (93%); PETER SANDS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



437 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: November 11, 2010

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Much Ado About Debt

BYLINE: JANIE LORBER


HIGHLIGHT: Today's top political stories from The Times and around the Web, plus what's on tap Thursday in Washington.

 BODY:
From Today's Times:
 President Obama's fiscal commission set off a political firestorm on Wednesday when it outlined an ambitious and provocative package of spending cuts and tax increases aimed at erasing nearly $4 trillion from projected deficits through 2020. The Times's Jackie Calmes has the details Obama administration officials have begun spreading the word that U.S. troops will be in Afghanistan until at least the end of 2014. The Times's Elisabeth Bumiller describes this retooled message as effectively a "victory for the military" in its tug-of-war with the administration's civilian leaders. The aim is to convince Afghans that the United States is not walking away next summer and to warn the Taliban that aggressive operations against them would continue. Secretary of the Treasury Timothy F. Geithner said he believed that the leaders of the world's largest economies, meeting in Seoul at the G-20 Summit, would agree to try to reduce vast trade imbalances that threaten global economic and financial stability. Counting all of the write-in ballots in Alaska's Senate race could take as many as five days. Even then, the final outcome could be determined in a courtroom as a result of a lawsuit filed Tuesday by the Tea Party-backed Republican nominee, Joe Miller 
From Around the Web: The Web has lit up with reaction to the fiscal commission's recommendations. The Atlantic's Andrew Sullivan rounds up the commentary. Among the contentious ideas presented in the bipartisan panel's draft proposal is a public health insurance option, a notion that proved one of the most divisive issues in last year's health care debate, The Wall Street Journal notes. It's never easy for lawmakers to think about supporting policy changes opposed by older Americans, like Medicare benefit cuts and an increased retirement age for Social Security. But members of the new Congress may find it even harder than usual. Retirees are the No. 1 financial supporters of at least 26 new House members when compared to other interest groups including the mining industry, lawyers and advocates for women's issues, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. John Boehner, the man poised to become speaker of the House, has become increasingly popular since Republicans won back the majority last week, according to a new USA Today/Gallup poll released on Wednesday. Even though 40 percent of Americans still say they do not know him well enough to have an opinion, more now rate him positively than negatively, a shift from three prior 2010 readings, including one taken in mid-October 
Washington Daybook:
 President Barack Obama is in Seoul today for the G-20 Summit. He will celebrate Veterans Day there at an event with the leaders of South Korea, China and Germany. Back in Washington, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. hosts a Veterans Day breakfast at the White House. At 11 a.m. Mr. Biden will attend and speak at the wreath-laying at the Tomb of the Unknowns at Arlington National Cemetery in Virginia, one of a number of commemorative events scheduled today at memorials in and around Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); TAX LAW (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); TALIBAN (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); RETIREMENT AGE (67%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); LITIGATION (65%); MEDICARE (64%); SUITS & CLAIMS (52%); MINES & MINING (50%) The Caucus

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOE BIDEN (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (70%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



438 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: Waving the Flag

 BODY:
Who says Congress can't get its work done? On Sept. 30, the House of Representatives passed the All-American Flag Act on an enthusiastic, bipartisan (we assume) voice vote. If the Senate steps up, the federal government will be required by law to buy only flags entirely made in the U.S.A., down to the last fiber. 
The legislation closes a loophole in the Buy American Act of 1933, which, with some exceptions, requires the federal government to buy American-made things but allows flags with up to 50 percent foreign content to be classified as domestic-made. According to the Department of Commerce, China exported $2.5 million worth of American flags to the United States last year.
This could be a win for the truly red, white and blue. But it might not. Representative Bruce Braley, the Iowa Democrat who sponsored the bill, doesn't know whether any federal government agency buys imported flags. ''There is currently no inventory of how much money the federal government is spending on flags from China,'' said Caitlin Legacki, a spokeswoman for Mr. Braley.
Now that the House has taken this step to protect the livelihood of American workers, lawmakers shouldn't stop there. The economy needs another stiff dose of fiscal stimulus to shake off the current stagnation. The Republicans are refusing to go along. Congress needs to extend unemployment benefits by the end of this month or two million workers will be cut off starting Dec. 1. Republicans and conservative Democrats say they're opposed. Republicans haven't even embraced President Obama's proposal to grant tax breaks for business investment.
If lawmakers -- from both parties -- are looking for something to rally around, these should be their next legislative priorities. There is nothing more all-American than putting millions of Americans back to work.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (66%)

PERSON: BRUCE L BRALEY (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



439 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: National Greatness Agenda

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Elections come and go, but the United States is still careening toward bankruptcy. By 2020, the U.S. will be spending $1 trillion a year just to pay the interest on the national debt. Sometime between now and then the catastrophe will come.
It will come with amazing swiftness. The bond markets are with you until the second they are against you. When the psychology shifts and the fiscal crisis happens, the shock will be grievous: national humiliation, diminished power in the world, drastic cuts and spreading pain. 
Nothing in this past election has averted this disaster. The Republicans talk about cutting deficits, but a party that campaigns to restore the $400 million in Medicare cuts included in the health care law is not serious about averting a fiscal meltdown. Some Democrats, meanwhile, don't even bother to pretend. Look at the way many Democrats completely rejected the draft proposal unveiled by the chairmen of the fiscal commission. Nancy Pelosi, the public sector unions and many liberal commentators are not only unwilling to compromise to prevent a catastrophe, they're unwilling to even consider a compromise. They seem to regard anybody who would negotiate as fundamentally immoral and unserious.
The report from the chairmen lists some of the best ways to raise revenue and cut spending. But it comes with no enactment strategy. In this climate, asking politicians to end the mortgage deduction and tax employer health care plans and raise capital gains taxes and cut benefits for affluent seniors is like asking them to jump on a buzzing sack full of live grenades. They won't do it.
So we continue on the headlong path toward a national disaster. And along the way our dysfunctional political system will leave all sorts of other problems unaddressed: immigration, energy policy and on and on.
Yet, I'm optimistic right now. I'm optimistic because while our political system is a mess, the economic and social values of the country remain sound. My optimism is also based on the conviction that serious, vibrant societies don't sit by and do nothing as their governments drive off a cliff.
Over the past few years, we have seen millions of people mobilize -- some behind President Obama and others around the Tea Parties. The country is restive and looking for alternatives. And before the next round of voting begins, I suspect we will see another mass movement: a movement of people who don't feel represented by either of the partisan orthodoxies; a movement of people who want to fundamentally change the norms, institutions and rigidities that cause our gridlock and threaten our country.
You can't organize a movement like this around pain -- around tax increases and spending cuts. But you can organize one around a broad revitalization agenda, and, above all, love of country.
It will take a revived patriotism to motivate Americans to do what needs to be done. It will take a revived patriotism to lift people out of their partisan cliques. How can you love your country if you hate the other half of it?
It will take a revived patriotism to get people to look beyond their short-term financial interest to see the long-term national threat. Do you really love your tax deduction more than America's future greatness? Are you really unwilling to sacrifice your Social Security cost-of-living adjustment at a time when soldiers and Marines are sacrificing their lives for their country in Afghanistan?
Like the civil rights movement, this movement will ask Americans to live up to their best selves. But it will do other things besides.
It will have to restore the social norms that prevailed through much of American history: when narcissism and hyperpartisanship was mitigated by loyalties larger than tribe and self; when competition between the parties was limited and constructive, not total and fratricidal.
This movement will have to build institutions to support the leaders who make the hard bargains. As in the civil rights era, politicians won't make big changes unless they are impelled and protected by a social upsurge.
Most important, this movement will have to develop a governing philosophy and a policy agenda. Right now, orthodox liberals and conservatives have their idea networks, and everybody else is intellectual roadkill. This coming movement will have to revive the American System: a governing philosophy that believes in targeted federal efforts to arouse growth, social mobility and responsibility.
Like the chairmen's report, this movement could demand that Congress wipe out tax loopholes and begin anew. It could protect federal aid to the poor while reducing federal subsidies to the upper-middle class.
The coming movement may be a third party or it may support serious people in the existing two. Its goal will be unapologetic: preserving American pre-eminence. It will preserve America's standing in the world on the grounds that this supremacy is a gift to our children and a blessing for the earth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); TAX LAW (88%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); LIBERALISM (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); BONDS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (70%); MEDICARE (69%); HEALTH CARE LAW (69%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (64%); LIBERAL MEDIA (52%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (59%); NANCY PELOSI (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



440 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: It's Not Easy Being Bernanke

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
Can you remember when the Federal Reserve was above criticism? When politicians vied for Alan Greenspan's favor and fell all over themselves praising his wisdom?
Now poor Ben S. Bernanke, who succeeded Mr. Greenspan as Fed chairman, is being blasted from all sides. It is bad enough that his latest effort to revive the American economy has taken on a name previously used for a 40-year-old cruise ship that no longer sails -- QE2.
He is attacked by Americans for printing money and by overseas officials for trying to help American trade by undermining the dollar. Some Republicans claim to believe the country would be better off without a central bank at all.
If the stock market were falling, you can be sure the Fed would get the blame. But it has been rising of late, and in some critiques that is proof of the Fed's perfidy. The Fed is creating inflation, its critics say. 
Overseas, there is a widespread belief that the purpose of QE2, for the second round of quantitative easing, must be to depress the dollar and thus give the United States an unfair trade advantage. ''It's inconsistent,'' thundered the German finance minister, Wolfgang Schauble, in an interview with Der Spiegel, ''for the Americans to accuse the Chinese of manipulating exchange rates and then to artificially depress the dollar exchange rate by printing money.''
Oddly enough, the dollar rallied in the week after the latest plan was announced, even though the normal expectation would be for a weakening. The currency slipped after Mr. Bernanke signaled such a move was likely, but it seemed unlikely the currency was a major consideration in the Fed's decision. If the central bank does manage to kick-start economic growth, the dollar is likely to rise further.
The Fed did not deserve the praise it used to get. It presided over bubbles and huge debt creation. When things were good, it forgot the injunction of a former Fed chairman, William McChesney Martin, that the Fed's job was to ''take away the punch bowl'' when everyone was having a good time.
We would be much better off if the Fed had noticed there was a bubble inflating in housing, rather than take the doctrinaire position that there were no bubbles, or, if there were, no one could figure out if they were too big.
Some Fed officials say they have learned that lesson, and will act differently when something similar happens. Right now, we can only hope we'll get the chance to see if they will be wiser the next time. For now, there is no party at all, let alone one with spiked punch.
Yet no less eminent an economist than Martin Feldstein, a Harvard professor, former president of the National Bureau of Economic Research and chairman of Ronald Reagan's Council of Economic Advisers when the country was recovering from a severe recession in the early 1980s, is worried.
Anticipation of QE2, he wrote in The Financial Times, caused prices of commodities and common stocks to rise.
''Like all bubbles, these exaggerated increases can rapidly reverse when interest rates return to normal levels,'' he said. ''The greatest danger will then be to leveraged investors, including individuals who bought these assets with borrowed money and banks that hold long-term securities. These risks should be clear after the recent crisis driven by the bursting of asset price bubbles. Although the specific asset prices that are now rising are different from last time, the possibility of damaging declines when bubbles burst is worryingly similar.''
The threat of rising prices also was clear to Sarah Palin, the former Alaska governor, who asserted that ''everyone who ever goes out shopping for groceries knows that prices have risen significantly over the past year or so. Pump-priming would push them even higher. And it's not just groceries. Oil recently hit a six-month high, at more than $87 a barrel.''
Those worries seem excessive. The Fed is clearly more concerned about deflation than inflation, and it has a point. Inflation may be a longer-term problem, but that term is likely to be longer than you would guess from a lot of the commentary.
To be sure, some prices are up. But that could mean that markets are more encouraged about growth prospects than they were when the American recovery stalled this summer and brought on talk of a double-dip recession.
It seems that the third-quarter growth rate of gross domestic product will be revised higher from the 2 percent initially reported. Kamalesh Rao, the director of research for MasterCard Advisors SpendingPulse, which monitors retail sales, says those sales grew about 3 percent in October. ''It is not an extraordinary rate of growth, but it indicates we are coming out of that summer lull,'' he said.
Near the end of 2008, oil traded below $35 a barrel and the Standard &Poor's 500-stock index, now around 1,200, fell below 800. What has changed since then is not inflation, or inflation expectations. The Consumer Price Index for September was a little below the figure for two years earlier. The arrival of Great Depression II seems less likely now.
Nor do markets seem to fear soaring inflation. Given the record-low interest rates on United States Treasury securities, it certainly appears that investors still trust Uncle Sam, even if Ms. Palin is worried that QE2 will be followed by QE3, 4 and 5, and that no one will be willing to lend money to the United States. A Chinese bond rating agency this week cut its rating of American government debt to single-A-plus, saying that ''serious defects in the U.S. economy will lead to long-term recession and fundamentally lower the national solvency.''
It is just such a long-term recession that the Fed is seeking to avoid. I don't know if it will work, but some action seems to be needed, and the politicians show no real interest in using fiscal policy to support the economy.
The action the Fed took was to announce plans to buy $600 billion of longer-term Treasuries by mid-2011. That is smaller than the purchases of 2009, but then there was a clear emergency. To a lot of people, this sounds like simple printing of money, and we all remember hearing that inflation is the result of having too much money floating around.
At the Fed, there are promises that the action will be reversed when conditions improve, but critics who once believed everything Mr. Greenspan said now doubt everything his successor says.
These are extraordinary times. If interest rates were at more normal levels, the latest Fed action would be roughly similar to a reduction of the federal funds rate by around three-quarters of a percentage point, or so some economists believe. Then the Fed would have bought Treasury bills to accomplish that goal. It would seem like a big move, but not a particularly unusual one.
Fed officials could have simply announced they were taking aim at a longer-term rate, like the five-year Treasury note, and were determined to get the yield on that down to some level they deemed appropriate. (That is essentially what Mr. Bernanke once advised Japan to do.) That might have sounded more like the old policy. But doing that could have raised fears that the Fed would have to buy a huge quantity of notes, and had made an open-ended commitment.
If we look at this as normal Fed policy in abnormal times, then we are back to another fear being raised now, that the move will not do much good because the Fed is ''pushing on a string'' and sending liquidity into an economy that will not make much use of it. Mr. Feldstein voiced that worry with calculations of the very limited improvement in G.D.P. that we could expect.
He may be right, of course. But in every recovery I can remember, there were similar worries. Then, seemingly suddenly, the economy took off and growth recovered. There is a cumulative effect from easing credit, but no easy way to know when it will kick in.
One area to watch is the junk bond market. Rates are down and borrowing is up. But little money seems to be going to support the kind of economic activity we would like to see, in which companies buy plants and equipment and hire workers. Instead, such companies as HCA, the privately held hospital chain, and Armstrong World, the vinyl flooring company, are borrowing to pay dividends to shareholders. That money may be recycled in new investments, of course, but its economic impact is limited.
If and when we see more money being borrowed at these low rates for projects based on expectations of a better economy, Mr. Bernanke may deserve the kind of praise his predecessor used to receive.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Early this month in Georgia, Ben S. Bernanke, left, leader of the Fed, took the stage with his predecessor, Alan Greenspan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN MORTON/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EXCHANGE RATES (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); CRUISES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); BEN BERNANKE (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); WOLFGANG SCHAEUBLE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



441 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Economic View Is Rejected on World Stage

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN, SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and DAVID E. SANGER; Sewell Chan and Sheryl Gay Stolberg reported from Seoul, and David E. Sanger from Washington.

 BODY:
This article is by Sewell Chan, Sheryl Gay Stolberg and David E. Sanger.
SEOUL, South Korea -- President Obama's hopes of emerging from his Asia trip with the twin victories of a free trade agreement with South Korea and a unified approach to spurring economic growth around the world ran into resistance on all fronts on Thursday, putting Mr. Obama at odds with his key allies and largest trading partners.
The most concrete trophy expected to emerge from the trip eluded his grasp: a long-delayed free trade agreement with South Korea, first negotiated by the Bush administration and then reopened by Mr. Obama, to have greater protections for American workers.
And as officials frenetically tried to paper over differences among the Group of 20 members with a vaguely worded communique to be issued Friday, there was no way to avoid discussion of the fundamental differences of economic strategy. After five largely harmonious meetings in the past two years to deal with the most severe downturn since the Depression, major disputes broke out between Washington and China, Britain, Germany and Brazil. 
Each rejected core elements of Mr. Obama's strategy of stimulating growth before focusing on deficit reduction. Several major nations continued to accuse the Federal Reserve of deliberately devaluing the dollar last week in an effort to put the costs of America's competitive troubles on trading partners, rather than taking politically tough measures to rein in spending at home.
The result was that Mr. Obama repeatedly found himself on the defensive. He and the South Korean president, Lee Myung-bak, had vowed to complete the trade pact by the time they met here; while Mr. Obama insisted that it would be resolved ''in a matter of weeks,'' without the pressure of a summit meeting it was unclear how the hurdles on nontariff barriers to American cars and beef would be resolved.
Mr. Obama's meeting with China's president, Hu Jintao, appeared to do little to break down Chinese resistance to accepting even nonbinding numerical targets for limiting China's trade surplus. While Lael Brainard, the under secretary of the Treasury for international affairs, said that the United States and China ''have gotten to a good place'' on rebalancing their trade, Chinese officials later archly reminded the Americans that as the issuers of the dollar, the main global reserve currency, they should consider the interests of the ''global economy'' as well as their own ''national circumstances.''
The disputes were not limited to America's foreign partners. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner got into a trans-Pacific argument with one of his former mentors, Alan Greenspan, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, after Mr. Greenspan wrote that the United States was ''pursuing a policy of currency weakening.'' Mr. Geithner shot back on CNBC that while he had ''enormous respect'' for Mr. Greenspan, ''that's not an accurate description of either the Fed's policies or our policies.'' He added, ''We will never seek to weaken our currency as a tool to gain competitive advantage or grow the economy.''
Much of the rest of the world seemed to share Mr. Greenspan's assessment. Moreover, Mr. Obama seemed to be losing the broader debate over austerity. The president has insisted that at a moment of weak private demand, the best way to spur economic growth is to have the government prime the pump with cheap credit and government stimulus programs. He quickly found himself in an argument with Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany.
''You do hear the argument made sometimes: If you have a deficit, put off the action to deal with it because taking money out of the economy will reduce your growth rate,'' Mr. Cameron said at the meeting. ''I simply don't accept that.'' Even as he spoke, back home his ministers were announcing new cuts in Britain's famed welfare system.
Mrs. Merkel, reflecting a more traditional German view born of her country's history of hyperinflation before World War II, was equally adamant. ''I am not one, and Germany is not one, who says growth and fiscal consolidation are contradictory,'' she said during a lunchtime address in Seoul. ''They can go together, and it is essential to return to a sustainable growth path.''
She also suggested that it was the job of deficit countries -- like the United States and Britain, though she diplomatically avoided citing them -- to increase their competitiveness rather than put limits on countries that had figured out how to get the world to buy their goods. ''In the task ahead, the benchmark has to be the countries that have been most competitive, not to reduce to the lowest common denominator,'' she said.
The differences with Mr. Cameron and Mrs. Merkel were particularly striking because during Mr. Obama's first Group of 20 meetings -- in London, Pittsburgh and Toronto -- he managed to get all of the major economies to pursue something of a coordinated stimulus strategy.
But that consensus began fracturing at the June meeting in Toronto. While the administration had warned that rolling back fiscal stimulus programs too quickly could endanger the fragile recovery, the pressure on European nations to slash their deficits was becoming overwhelming. Ultimately the Group of 20 countries committed to cutting government deficits in half by 2013, a goal the United States insists it will meet.
But much has now changed. Mr. Cameron is following his conservative instincts and has made budget-cutting a signature issue. Mrs. Merkel is credited with avoiding spending heavily on stimulus programs and emerging with the most successful recovery in Europe.
And Mr. Obama faces new political constraints. Jeffry A. Frieden, a political scientist at Harvard, noted Thursday that the administration ''feels it does not have the domestic political support for embarking on potentially difficult cooperative measures.''
The White House decided it was smarter for Mr. Obama to return home with no free trade accord than with one in which it could be accused of making concessions at a time that the consensus on trade has been shattered, particularly within the Democratic Party.
Similarly, accusations that China has manipulated its currency for its own advantage -- and now the countercharge that the Fed is doing the same -- are part of what Mr. Frieden calls an argument over ''who will bear the burden of adjustment.''
''Will it be the creditor or debtor countries?'' he said. ''Who's going to take a hit for our debt?''
Indeed, the struggle for advantage, which ultimately may be a struggle to set the rules for a new global financial order, was the unspoken subtext of the meeting between Mr. Obama and Mr. Hu.
Mr. Hu, in the most indirect terms, told Mr. Obama that Beijing was focused on the Fed's role in pushing down interest rates, and its effect on weakening the dollar. The code words were obvious. For days Chinese officials have characterized the Fed's actions as an effort to drive ''hot money'' to developing nations, pushing up their currencies and their interest rates, and perhaps fueling inflation. Mr. Obama had hoped to make the meeting about a related subject: China's continuing refusal to allow rapid appreciation of its currency, which fuels its huge trade surplus.
At a press briefing in Seoul, Zheng Xiaosong, director general of the Chinese Ministry of Finance's international department, indirectly accused the United States of ignoring its international responsibilities. ''The major reserve-currency issuers, while implementing their monetary policies, should not only take into account their national circumstances but should also bear in mind the possible impacts on the global economy,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany talked, and disagreed, at the Group of 20 meeting on Thursday. (A1)
 President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea, with his wife, Kim Yoon-ok, helped position President Obama for a photo on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (67%); DEVALUATION (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); LEE MYUNG-BAK (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); HU JINTAO (51%); ANGELA MERKEL (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%) UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (94%); ASIA (92%); GERMANY (90%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



442 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: The Hijacked Commission

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Count me among those who always believed that President Obama made a big mistake when he created the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform -- a supposedly bipartisan panel charged with coming up with solutions to the nation's long-run fiscal problems. It seemed obvious, as soon as the commission's membership was announced, that ''bipartisanship'' would mean what it so often does in Washington: a compromise between the center-right and the hard-right.
My misgivings increased as we got a better feel for the views of the commission's co-chairmen. It soon became clear that Erskine Bowles, the Democratic co-chairman, had a very Republican-sounding small-government agenda. Meanwhile, Alan Simpson, the Republican co-chairman, revealed the kind of honest broker he is by sending an abusive e-mail to the executive director of the National Older Women's League in which he described Social Security as being ''like a milk cow with 310 million tits.'' 
We've known for a long time, then, that nothing good would come from the commission. But on Wednesday, when the co-chairmen released a PowerPoint outlining their proposal, it was even worse than the cynics expected.
Start with the declaration of ''Our Guiding Principles and Values.'' Among them is, ''Cap revenue at or below 21% of G.D.P.'' This is a guiding principle? And why is a commission charged with finding every possible route to a balanced budget setting an upper (but not lower) limit on revenue?
Matters become clearer once you reach the section on tax reform. The goals of reform, as Mr. Bowles and Mr. Simpson see them, are presented in the form of seven bullet points. ''Lower Rates'' is the first point; ''Reduce the Deficit'' is the seventh.
So how, exactly, did a deficit-cutting commission become a commission whose first priority is cutting tax rates, with deficit reduction literally at the bottom of the list?
Actually, though, what the co-chairmen are proposing is a mixture of tax cuts and tax increases -- tax cuts for the wealthy, tax increases for the middle class. They suggest eliminating tax breaks that, whatever you think of them, matter a lot to middle-class Americans -- the deductibility of health benefits and mortgage interest -- and using much of the revenue gained thereby, not to reduce the deficit, but to allow sharp reductions in both the top marginal tax rate and in the corporate tax rate.
It will take time to crunch the numbers here, but this proposal clearly represents a major transfer of income upward, from the middle class to a small minority of wealthy Americans. And what does any of this have to do with deficit reduction?
Let's turn next to Social Security. There were rumors beforehand that the commission would recommend a rise in the retirement age, and sure enough, that's what Mr. Bowles and Mr. Simpson do. They want the age at which Social Security becomes available to rise along with average life expectancy. Is that reasonable?
The answer is no, for a number of reasons -- including the point that working until you're 69, which may sound doable for people with desk jobs, is a lot harder for the many Americans who still do physical labor.
But beyond that, the proposal seemingly ignores a crucial point: while average life expectancy is indeed rising, it's doing so mainly for high earners, precisely the people who need Social Security least. Life expectancy in the bottom half of the income distribution has barely inched up over the past three decades. So the Bowles-Simpson proposal is basically saying that janitors should be forced to work longer because these days corporate lawyers live to a ripe old age.
Still, can't we say that for all its flaws, the Bowles-Simpson proposal is a serious effort to tackle the nation's long-run fiscal problem? No, we can't.
It's true that the PowerPoint contains nice-looking charts showing deficits falling and debt levels stabilizing. But it becomes clear, once you spend a little time trying to figure out what's going on, that the main driver of those pretty charts is the assumption that the rate of growth in health-care costs will slow dramatically. And how is this to be achieved? By ''establishing a process to regularly evaluate cost growth'' and taking ''additional steps as needed.'' What does that mean? I have no idea.
It's no mystery what has happened on the deficit commission: as so often happens in modern Washington, a process meant to deal with real problems has been hijacked on behalf of an ideological agenda. Under the guise of facing our fiscal problems, Mr. Bowles and Mr. Simpson are trying to smuggle in the same old, same old -- tax cuts for the rich and erosion of the social safety net.
Can anything be salvaged from this wreck? I doubt it. The deficit commission should be told to fold its tents and go away.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (86%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (84%); BUDGETS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX REFORM (74%); SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (64%); CORPORATE TAX (50%)

ORGANIZATION: OLDER WOMEN'S LEAGUE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); ERSKINE BOWLES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



443 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: China's Inflation Rose to 4.4% in October

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- Inflation in China surged past analysts' forecasts in October, raising expectations that authorities in Beijing would step up efforts to slow the country's blistering growth rate. 
Consumer prices have been creeping up for months as the Chinese economy has returned to its more typical heated pace of growth. But October's acceleration in prices outstripped expectations, with inflation jumping 4.4 percent from a year earlier, largely because of rapidly rising food prices, data released on Thursday showed. The figure represented also a sharp jump from the 3.6 percent recorded in September.
While inflation remains below the levels of 2007, when food prices rose around the world, the latest readings are a red flag for Chinese officials. Beijing is highly aware that social tensions could be set off by rising energy and food prices.
This year, a series of big labor strikes at factories in southern China were fueled by workers' complaints about unfair treatment, but also by the diminishing purchasing power of their salaries, as rents and food prices kept climbing.
Although affluence is rising, large swaths of the population still struggle to make ends meet and find budgets badly dented when household bills rise.
The jump in the October inflation rate also diminished hopes that price increases might level off quickly in response to recent government efforts to rein in inflation.
Inflationary pressures are being stoked by ample lending at home, as well as by an impending rise in capital inflows as overseas investors seek to cash in on China's buoyant growth.
Rising capital inflows have raised widespread concerns in emerging-market economies and provided an undercurrent of tension to the meeting of Group of 20 leaders in Seoul, South Korea, this week. Many policy makers have criticized the United States' latest efforts to bolster its own economy through a major asset-purchase program. The program, known as quantitative easing, could accelerate capital inflows into developing nations and lead to inflation, critics say.
On Wednesday, Beijing stepped up its efforts to damp rapid growth, once again instructing banks to set aside a greater portion of their reserves. This effectively curtails the amount banks can lend out, helping to limit loan-fueled growth. Loan growth has nevertheless remained strong this year.
Further measures to cool growth and inflation are now probable. The latest increase in the banks' so-called reserve requirement ratio and an interest rate increase announced last month suggest a newfound sense of urgency in Beijing's efforts, analysts said.
''As China has had four consecutive quarters of above-trend growth, together with a huge money overhang, we believe inflation is bound to rise further in the months ahead,'' analysts at Australia and New Zealand Banking Group said in a note on Thursday. ''Looking ahead, we think the monetary authorities will not only need to raise interest rates but will also need to allow the renminbi to strengthen further so as to dampen the effect of imported inflation.''
Beijing has permitted the renminbi to gain about 3 percent against the dollar since June. And on Thursday, the central bank fixed a key daily exchange rate for the currency at a record high of 6.6242 to the dollar.
The economy seems able to handle more tightening. Reflecting that, Moody's upgraded China to Aa3 from A1.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A vendor in Shandong Province with bundles of celery. Higher food prices pushed inflation up. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); FOOD PRICES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (69%); STRIKES (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (50%)

COMPANY: AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND BANKING GROUP LTD (60%)

TICKER: ANZ (NZX) (60%); ANZ (ASX) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (60%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (60%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (60%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (60%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (70%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); SHANDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (98%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); HONG KONG (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



444 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 2165 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Jazz
Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.
Carl Allen-Rodney Whitaker Project (Friday through Sunday) The drummer Carl Allen and the bassist Rodney Whitaker have two recent albums on the Mack Avenue label, both suggestive of an urbane twist on hard bop. Their cohort here includes Tim Green on alto saxophone, Eric Reed on piano and Rodney Jones on guitar. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set on Friday and Saturday, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway , (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; $30 and $35 cover, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. Sold out on Sunday. (Nate Chinen)20101111
Darcy James Argue's Secret Society (Friday and Saturday) Mr. Argue, a staunchly contemporary big band composer, leads his flagship with authority, leaving ample space for individual statements -- by sure-footed soloists like the trumpeter Ingrid Jensen and the saxophonist Sam Sadigursky -- but always with the full impact in mind. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village , (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; $20, $10 for members. (Chinen)20101111 
Cyrus Chestnut Trio (Friday through Sunday) Led by the industrious pianist Cyrus Chestnut, with the bassist Dezron Douglas and the drummer Neal Smith, this group draws on gospel harmony with a hard-bop tilt. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set on Friday and Saturday, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan , (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $30, $25 on Sunday. (Chinen)20101111
The ExPosed Blues Duo (Thursday) Composed of the singer Fay Victor and the guitarist Anders Nilsson, this aptly named group just released ''Bare'' (Greene Avenue), an album of scraped-out blues songs, some less obvious than others; ''Mood Indigo'' takes on the weight of a dirge, and ''Rockin' Chair,'' usually a chummy reverie, lands as a chilling lamentation. At 8 p.m., the Shrine, 2271 Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard, at 134th Street, Harlem , (212) 690-7807, shrinenyc.com; no cover. (Chinen)20101111
Joe Fonda, Billy Bang, Barry Altschul (Sunday) As a collective, these distinguished avant-gardists -- the bassist Joe Fonda, the violinist Billy Bang and the drummer Barry Altschul -- have released one potent album, ''Transforming the Space'' (CIMP), that probably only hints at the depth of their interaction here. At 8:30 p.m., Roulette at Location One, 20 Greene Street, at Grand Street, SoHo , (212) 219-8242, roulette.org; $15, $10 for students and those under 30. (Chinen)20101111
Tia Fuller Quartet (Thursday) The saxophonist Tia Fuller, who has developed her solo career between tours with Beyonce, leads a band with several of the musicians featured on her sophomore release on Mack Avenue, ''Decisive Steps'': her sister, the pianist Shamie Royston; the bassist Mimi Jones; and Warren Wolf, better known as a vibraphonist, playing drums. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village , (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; $15 for the first set ($10 members), $10 for the second set ($5 members). (Chinen)20101111
- Charlie Haden and Paul Bley (Thursday) Mr. Haden, the estimable bassist, has a good history of duologue with pianists, and Mr. Bley presents him with a worthy partner, an incorrigible explorer whose profound influence (especially on other jazz pianists) has long outweighed his drawing power. That's injustice of one kind or another, and this engagement could be seen as a corrective, though not merely that. (Through Nov. 21.) At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village , (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; $35 cover at tables, $20 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)20101111
- Jim Hall Quartet (Friday and Saturday) Jim Hall's economical style and harmonic command have made him a quietly imposing hero of jazz guitar -- and, as he approaches his 80th year, a legend. As he did here last year, he leads a responsive group with the alto saxophonist Greg Osby, the bassist Steve LaSpina and the drummer Joey Baron. At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton , (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; $30 general seating; $40 premium seating, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)20101111
Charlie Hunter Trio / Mark Guiliana's Beat Music (Monday) Charlie Hunter, a soul-obsessed and famously dextrous guitarist, reached far back for his repertory on ''Public Domain'' (Spire Artist Media), with solo reinventions of early-20th-century pop fare like ''Alexander's Ragtime Band'' and ''Limehouse Blues.'' He goes back to that well here, in a trio with Michael R. Williams on bass trumpet and Eric Kalb on drums. Sharing the bill is a more contemporary-minded band led by Mr. Guiliana, a drummer. At 7 p.m., Le Poisson Rouge, 158 Bleecker Street, near Thompson Street, Greenwich Village , (212) 228-4854, lepoissonrouge.com; $15. (Chinen)20101111
Sheila Jordan and Steve Kuhn (Tuesday and Wednesday) Ms. Jordan is what they call a musician's singer, sure of phrase and light on her feet. For this celebratory engagement, timed to lead up to her 82nd birthday, she works in a duo with Mr. Kuhn, a sensitive pianist and longtime coconspirator. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan , (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $25. (Chinen)20101111
Mahavishnu Project (Wednesday) The drummer Gregg Bendian leads this free-spirited but exacting tribute band, which occasionally reaches beyond its namesake inspiration to another pillar of 1970s jazz-rock -- in this case, the music of Jeff Beck. At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Iridium Jazz Club, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street , (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; $25 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)20101111
John McLaughlin and the 4th Dimension (Saturday) Last year the virtuoso guitarist John McLaughlin recorded and toured with the Five Peace Band, a supergroup patterned after the muscular jazz-rock of the early 1970s, which he helped usher into being. He continues that exploration on ''To the One'' (Abstract Logix), a new album featuring the 4th Dimension, a four-piece band with Gary Husband on drums and keyboards, Etienne Mbappe on electric bass and Mark Mondesir on drums and percussion. At 8 p.m., Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan , (212) 840-2824, the-townhall-nyc.org; $35 to $65. (Chinen)20101111
Paul Motian Septet (Tuesday through Thursday) This luminous, melody-haunted ensemble consists of a contrasting pair of improvisers (the saxophonists Chris Cheek and Bill McHenry); a couple of welcome stabilizers (the guitarist Steve Cardenas, the bassist Jerome Harris); a pair of savvy wild cards (the violist Mat Maneri and the pianist Jacob Sacks); and a wily mastermind (Mr. Motian, on drums). (Through Nov. 21.) At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village , (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; $25 cover and a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)20101111
New Orleans Nights (Sunday) Part of the 30th anniversary festivities for the Lehman Center for the Performing Arts, this concert showcases three distinct if overlapping versions of New Orleans music: the effortlessly urbane R&B of Allen Toussaint, the sleek postbop of the trumpeter Nicholas Payton and the bluesy funk of the organist Joe Krown. At 6 p.m., Lehman Center for the Performing Arts, 250 Bedford Park Boulevard West, at Goulden Avenue, Bedford Park, the Bronx , (718) 960-8833, lehmancenter.org; $25, $30 and $35. (Chinen)20101111
- Nublu Jazz Festival (Friday through Thursday) For much of the last decade, the East Village club Nublu has promulgated a downtown mix of jazz, club music and international groove. This month a similar mix prevails at its second annual jazz festival, with groups like the Sun Ra Arkestra (Friday), Avishai Cohen's Triveni (Monday) and Fernando Otero's Electric Tango (Tuesday). (Through Nov. 20.) Times vary. Nublu, 62 Avenue C, between Fourth and Fifth Streets, East Village , nublu.net; $10. (Chinen)20101111
- Danilo Perez Trio (Thursday) The inventive Panamanian pianist Danilo Perez has a new album, ''Providencia'' (Mack Avenue), that pushes his idea of a pan-global progressivism, bursting with rhythmic energy. He leads a sturdy and intuitive working trio, with Ben Street on bass and Adam Cruz on drums. (Through Nov. 21.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan , (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $25. (Chinen)20101111
Mike Pride's From Bacteria to Boys (Tuesday) The intense and searching drummer Mike Pride brings the full measure of his concentration to this working band, featuring the alto saxophonist Darius Jones, the keyboardist Alexis Marcelo and the bassist Peter Bitenc. The band is celebrating the release of its new debut, ''Betweenwhile'' (AUM Fidelity). At 8 and 10 p.m., University of the Streets, Muhammad Salahuddeen Memorial Jazz Theater, 130 East Seventh Street, second floor, East Village , (212) 254-9300, universityofthestreets.org; $10. (Chinen)20101111
Renee Rosnes Quintet (Tuesday through Thursday) Renee Rosnes, a resourceful and highly adaptable pianist, leads a postbop band composed of the saxophonist Rich Perry, the vibraphonist Steve Nelson, the bassist Peter Washington and the drummer Bill Stewart. (Through Nov. 21.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway , (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; $30 to $35 cover, with a minimum of $10 at tables and $5 at the bar. (Chinen)20101111
The Jamie Saft Special Quintet (Friday and Saturday) A pianist and keyboardist of kaleidoscopic interests, Jamie Saft leads a group with the saxophonist Bill McHenry, the trumpeter Duane Eubanks, the bassist Dwayne Burno and the drummer Ben Perowsky. What makes it special is open to interpretation, though Mr. Saft is likely to have a firm idea in mind. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village , (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $15 cover, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)20101111
- Henry Threadgill With Zooid (Friday and Saturday) Mr. Threadgill, the unclassifiable multireedist and composer, has had a banner year: his major-label output has back into circulation, courtesy of a Mosaic Records boxed set, and he has just released ''This Brings Us To, Vol. 2'' (Pi), the second album to feature his excellent current band. The band, Zooid, featuring sympathetic improvisers like the guitarist Liberty Ellman, is finishing a three-night residence here. At 8:30 p.m., Roulette at Location One, 20 Greene Street, at Grand Street, SoHo , (212) 219-8242, roulette.org; $20, students and those under 30, $15. (Chinen)20101111
- Mark Turner Quartet (Friday through Sunday) The tenor and soprano saxophonist Mark Turner has often been reluctant to step out front as a bandleader -- his main outlet lately is Fly, a collective trio -- but for this engagement he has made an exception. Given the graceful compression and streamlined erudition of his playing, it'll be good to hear him take the lead, with active support from the pianist David Virelles, the bassist Ben Street and the drummer Paul Motian. At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village , (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; $25 cover, and a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)20101111
- Randy Weston's 'Uhuru Afrika' (Saturday) Mr. Weston, the pianist, has been one of the principal agents of an African jazz aesthetic for some 50 years, since the release of his large-ensemble work ''Uhuru Africa,'' which he revisits here with a smartly stocked band. The concert also comes on the heels of his autobiography, ''African Rhythms'' (Duke University Press), written with Willard Jenkins. At 8 p.m., TriBeCa Performing Arts Center, Borough of Manhattan Community College, 199 Chambers Street , (212) 220-1460, tribecapac.org; $25, $35 and $45 (students save $10). (Chinen)20101111
- Cassandra Wilson (Tuesday and Wednesday) The dark, debonair majesty of Ms. Wilson's singing has few equals in jazz, or really anyplace else. She's joined here by most of the musicians heard on her fine new album, ''Silver Pony'' (Blue Note), including the guitarist Marvin Sewell, the pianist Jonathan Batiste and the drummer Herlin Riley. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village , (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; $47.50 cover, $30 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)20101111
Phil Woods Quintet (Tuesday through Thursday) A few years ago the venerable alto saxophonist Phil Woods released ''American Songbook II'' (Kind of Blue), a sharp and often sparkling album featuring compatriots like the trumpeter Brian Lynch, the bassist Steve Gilmore and the drummer Bill Goodwin. Those players rejoin him here, along with the pianist Bill Mays. (Through Nov. 20.) At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton , (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; $30 cover, side seating; $40, center seating; with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)20101111

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: RANDY WESTON'S 'UHURU AFRIKA': (Saturday) Mr. Weston, the pianist, above, has been one of the principal agents of an African jazz aesthetic for some 50 years, since the release of his large-ensemble work ''Uhuru Africa,'' which he revisits here with a smartly stocked band. The concert comes on the heels of his autobiography, ''African Rhythms'' (Duke University Press), written with Willard Jenkins. At 8 p.m., TriBeCa Performing Arts Center, Borough of Manhattan Community College, 199 Chambers Street, (212) 220-1460, tribecapac.org
 $25, $35 and $45 ($10 off for students). (Nate Chinen) (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGES GOBET/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (92%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC REVIEWS (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); RECORD RELEASES (79%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (74%)

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (59%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



445 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: Weimar Film: Shadows, Yes, but Also Light

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR

 BODY:
German cinema of the Weimar years has given us some of the most famous images in film history: Cesare the somnambulist (Conrad Veidt) loping through the crooked alleys of ''The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari,'' the proud hotel doorman (Emil Jannings) reduced to a quivering washroom attendant in ''The Last Laugh,'' the robot Maria (Brigitte Helm) coming to life circled by rising rings of electricity in ''Metropolis.''
Yet these represent only a narrow sample of a vast national industry, which at its height was second only to Hollywood in the number of films it produced, some 200 to 500 a year. 
Beginning Wednesday, ''Weimar Cinema, 1919-1933: Daydreams and Nightmares,'' a four-month, 81-film program at the Museum of Modern Art will help fill in some of the gaps in our perceptions of this rich and influential body of work. Programmed by Laurence Kardish of MoMA in cooperation with the Deutsche Kinemathek and the F.W. Murnau Foundation, the series includes not only perennial classics like Fritz Lang's ''M'' (Dec. 9) and F. W. Murnau's ''Nosferatu'' (Dec. 12), but also dozens of titles that have been rediscovered and restored in recent years, many presented with English subtitles for the first time in the United States.
In the standard film histories Weimar is synonymous with Expressionism, a movement that began in painting and theater and grew to include the exaggerated shadows, wildly stylized acting and doom-laden atmosphere of Robert Wiene's ''Caligari'' (Nov. 26), which burst upon an astonished world in 1920.
But Expressionism was a short-lived novelty, taken up in a handful of films like Karlheinz Martin's long-lost ''From Morn to Midnight'' (Nov. 21 and 22) and Hans Werckmeister's science-fiction curiosity ''Algol: Tragodie der Macht'' (Nov. 29 and Dec. 2) before the public tired of its grotesque exaggerations.
Instead the lessons learned from Expressionism -- the dramatic use of dense patterns of light and shadow; the creation of complex, emotionally charged spaces through sets constructed in a studio -- were tamed and absorbed into a wide range of genres, from social satires like Ernst Lubitsch's 1919 ''Oyster Princess'' (Jan. 23 and 26) to romantic melodramas like Hanns Schwarz's 1929 ''Wonderful Lies of Nina Petrovna'' (Jan. 28 and 31).
By the mid-'20s filmmakers were leaving the studios for the streets (or at least studio sets that looked like streets), abandoning Expressionism's supernatural themes and morbid psychology for what they called Neue Sachlichkeit, or New Objectivity. Films like Gerhard Lamprecht's 1925 ''Slums of Berlin'' (Jan. 29), Karl Grune's 1926 ''Two Brothers'' (Jan. 13 and 15), Erich Waschneck's 1928 ''Docks of Hamburg'' (Jan. 16 and 20) left the fashionable salons of Berlin to seek out working-class lives.
Sound technology was first commercialized in Germany in Walther Ruttmann's 1929 montage film ''Melody of the World'' (Jan. 16 and 17). It added to the realism of semidocumentary films like Robert Siodmak and Edgar G. Ulmer's 1930 ''People on Sunday'' (Dec. 2 and 5) and to the urban clamor of social dramas like Phil Jutzi's 1931 ''Berlin Alexanderplatz'' (Dec. 1 and 5) and Slatan Dudow's 1932 ''Kuhle Wampe'' (Jan. 9), which included Brecht among its screenwriters.
Yet the revelation of the MoMA program is the large collection of comedies and musicals produced in the Weimar years. These are movies of wit, charm and lightness of touch that because they do not fit the traditional Weimar narrative of gathering fascist clouds, have largely been tossed out of the repertory.
The same year that ''Kuhle Wampe'' was depicting a shantytown for the unemployed with unsettling authenticity, a musical comedy called ''A Blond Dream'' (Nov. 20 and 22) imagined happy-go-lucky window washers living in improvised luxury in an abandoned trailer and competing for the affections of a dancer (Lilian Harvey) who dreams of going to Hollywood.
Born in England and educated in Germany, Harvey embodied the blithe spirit of the Weimar musical, appearing in topical trifles like Wilhelm Thiele's 1930 ''Three From the Filling Station'' (Nov. 19 and 27) and Erik Charell's 1931 period musical (set during the Congress of Vienna!), ''The Congress Dances'' (Dec. 23 and 26), a ravishing superproduction designed for international release and also filmed in French and English versions.
Many of these films were later remade in Hollywood. Some took longer than others: the 1933 ''Viktor und Viktoria'' (Dec. 22 and 26), written and directed by Reinhold Schunzel and starring Renate Muller as a woman who impersonates a female impersonator, became Blake Edwards's ''Victor/Victoria'' in 1982.
Schunzel was one of the lucky ones, finding refuge and a (diminished) career in Hollywood as the Nazis began their drive to control the film industry; less fortunate was his colleague Kurt Gerron, whose engagingly silly mountain musical ''A Crazy Idea'' (1932) plays on Dec. 27. Gerron was forced to make a propaganda film about the notorious ''model'' concentration camp, Theresienstadt, and was himself eventually killed in Auschwitz.
Familiar names abound on the MoMA schedule: Marlene Dietrich appears in one of her earliest leading roles in 1929's ''Three Loves'' (Jan. 1), a torrid melodrama directed by Kurt Bernhardt, who became Curtis when he landed a contract at Warner Brothers.
Robert Siodmak, celebrated for Hollywood films noirs like ''The Killers,'' can be found working out his distinctive, shadowy style in the 1931 ''Looking for His Murderer'' (Nov. 17), a lighthearted black comedy that includes Billy Wilder among its writers. Wilhelm (later William) Dieterle was best known for his Paul Muni biopics at Warner Brothers, but he began his career as an actor and director in Weimar films like ''Sex in Chains'' from 1928 (Jan. 21), a sympathetic view of a middle-class man who develops a close physical relationship with his cellmate during a prison term.
But the real pleasure of an extensive and ambitious program like this one lies in discovering names and making fresh connections. In the still largely uncharted territory of the Weimar cinema, the possibilities are endless.
''Weimar Cinema, 1919-1933'' runs Wednesday through March 7 at the Museum of Modern Art; (212) 708-9400, moma.org

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A scene from Reinhold Schunzel's ''Viktor und Viktoria,'' remade as ''Victor/Victoria.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSEUM OF MODERN ART) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM HISTORY (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); FILM (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (89%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



446 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: Battle Lines Are Drawn Over Medicaid Partnership

BYLINE: By EMILY RAMSHAW and MARILYN SERAFINI

 BODY:
A week after newly emboldened Republicans in the Texas Legislature floated a radical cost-saving proposal -- opting out of the federal Medicaid program -- health care experts, economists and think tanks are trying to determine just how serious they are, and if it would even be possible.
The answer? It is complicated. But that is not stopping some conservative lawmakers in nearly a dozen other states, frantic over budget shortfalls and anticipating new costs from the federal health care overhaul, from exploring it.
''States feel like their backs are against the wall, so this is the nuclear option for them,'' said Christie Herrera, director of the health and human services task force for the American Legislative Exchange Council, an association for conservative state lawmakers. ''I'm hearing below-the-radar chatter from legislators around the country from states considering this option.'' 
In Texas, some Republicans -- bolstered by their expanded majority in the State House -- say the strings attached to Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) are bankrupting the state, which is staring down a budget hole that some have estimated as high as $25 billion. They argue that states could provide more efficient and cost-effective care for children, the disabled and the impoverished by either giving up federal matching money altogether or getting federal officials to grant states waivers to provide health care as they see fit.
Jobless parents in Texas only qualify for Medicaid if their income is below 12 percent of poverty ($22,050 for a family of four), and working parents only qualify if their income is below 26 percent of poverty. Gov. Rick Perry ''understands the frustrations of legislators as they deal with a program that consumes 20 percent of the state budget,'' said Katherine Cesinger, his spokeswoman. ''Their options are severely limited by a federal government that continues to tie their hands when it comes to administering Medicaid.''
Opponents argue that dropping Medicaid would have such a devastating effect on the state's economy -- not to mention the health of 3.6 million Texans currently enrolled in the program -- that the idea is pure anti-Washington grandstanding.
The federal government covers 60 percent of Texas' $45 billion biennial Medicaid budget. Without that money, critics say, any health care the state could provide would be so limited that undercovered patients would flood emergency rooms, and Texans would end up paying the costs through local property taxes or higher insurance premiums.
''The real benefit of Medicaid is it's a shared expense, with the feds taking up a larger portion,'' said Regina Rogoff, executive director of the safety-net People's Community Clinic in Austin.
Speaking of a withdrawal from the program, Ms. Rogoff said: ''This will raise local property taxes, because hospital emergency rooms can't turn away patients. And it has the implication of us paying, through federal taxes, to subsidize care in other states, leaving people who live in our state without care.''
Such fears notwithstanding, the idea of dropping out of Medicaid is on the table in Texas and roughly a dozen other states, including Alabama, Mississippi, Washington and Wyoming. Options include remaking Medicaid with only state financing to give states broad flexibility in benefit and cost design, and, two, seeking federal waivers to allow states to change parts of their Medicaid programs.
''If people are in superbad poverty, that's one thing,'' said State Representative Warren Chisum, Republican of Pampa, the state's most vocal supporter of dropping out of Medicaid and a candidate for speaker of the House. ''It breaks my heart when there's someone who smokes, and who stays drunk half the time, and we're supposed to provide their health care.''
Starting in 2014, the new health law extends Medicaid to those with incomes up to 133 percent of the federal poverty level, which is $29,327 for a family of four in 2010. Some conservatives believe that if states dropped Medicaid, many low-income people could instead receive federal subsidies to buy private insurance coverage through state exchanges, another piece of federal health care overhaul that takes effect in 2014. States would then become totally responsible for Medicaid beneficiaries who require nursing homes and other long-term care, for premiums and other Medicaid costs for Medicare beneficiaries -- but everyone else would go into the exchange.
Edmund Haislmaier, senior research fellow at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research organization, estimates that Texas would save $46.5 billion from 2014 to 2019 under this model. In all, Mr. Haislmaier said, 40 states would come out ahead financially.
Others dispute that and note that switching millions of people from Medicaid to subsidized private insurance would be costly to the federal government, and may not be legal.
''The subsidies are explicitly not available for those with incomes below the poverty level,'' said Jennifer Sullivan, senior health policy analyst at the consumer group Families USA.
Judith Solomon, co-director of health policy at the nonprofit Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, said the new health care law explicitly stated that only ''applicable taxpayers'' were eligible for subsidies, ruling out anyone whose income is less than 100 percent of poverty, except for legal immigrants.
Cindy Mann, director of the federal Center for Medicaid and State Operations, said the Department of Health and Human Services was trying to determine whether Medicaid recipients dropped by their home states would qualify for subsidies.
Critics say dropping out of Medicaid would be a devastating blow to the state's medically underserved. Seven of 10 Texas nursing home residents rely on Medicaid, which also pays for more than half of all deliveries of babies in the state.
The state's share of these expenses would not shift to the federal government, said Jose Camacho, executive director of the Texas Association of Community Health Centers, but to counties and local taxpayers.
Others fear that cutting off the flow of federal Medicaid dollars could cripple the state's economy: About a million Texans work in health care, and from 2005 to 2009, a quarter of the new jobs created in the state were in that field.
Tom Banning, chief executive of the Texas Academy of Family Physicians, said that without Medicaid, or with a less-extensive replacement program, health care providers would be forced to shift their costs to the private market, driving up insurance premiums and prompting more people to forgo coverage. ''From a practical standpoint,'' Mr. Banning said, ''the downstream economic implications for Texas' health care infrastructure would be decimating.''
Opponents also say that the theory that a Democratic administration would offer Texas a no- or few-strings-attached Medicaid waiver is a pipe dream. ''A state's choice to get out of Medicaid is to get all the way out, not to pick and choose,'' said Anne Dunkelberg, associate director of the Center for Public Policy Priorities, a nonprofit group in Austin.
In the end, said Robert Reischauer, a former director of the Congressional Budget Office, the debate over Medicaid alternatives may be more about states' leveraging additional federal financing than dropping the program.
''Some states will toy with it, think about it, and reject it from the state perspective,'' Mr. Reischauer said. ''To the extent they don't, I would hope Congress and the president work together to create very strong incentives against it.''
This article was produced in partnership with The Texas Tribune and Kaiser Health News (www.kaiserhealthnews.org), an editorially independent news service of the Kaiser Family Foundation, a nonpartisan health care policy organization that is not affiliated with KaiserPermanente.eramshaw@texastribune.org

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Patients waiting to be seen at the People's Community Clinic, a 40-year-old primary-care center, in Austin on Monday.
 Regina Rogoff, executive director of the People's Community Clinic, defends Medicaid. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CALLIE RICHMOND FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CHILDREN (87%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); PARENTING (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); FAMILY (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); PARENTS (72%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (66%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (66%); PROPERTY TAX (50%)

COMPANY: CADENCE BANCORP LLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LEGISLATIVE EXCHANGE COUNCIL (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (98%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



447 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: Selling Ford Around the World, From Detroit

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
THE senior creative executive at Team Detroit, the consortium of WPP units that works on the Ford Motor account in North America, is getting a new role with a worldwide focus.
Toby Barlow, executive vice president and chief creative officer at Team Detroit, is assuming the new responsibilities of chief creative officer at Global Team Ford. He will continue to work alongside George S. Rogers, who is president and chief executive at Team Detroit, as well as the Ford Motor global client leader for WPP.
Mr. Barlow ''will be in charge of the Ford work globally,'' Mr. Rogers said in an interview during a recent visit to New York, ''and be the guy to work with the creative teams and sign off on all the global launches'' of new Ford Motor products. 
The new role for Mr. Barlow, who is 44, comes as WPP makes plans to form regional hubs next year modeled after Team Detroit, which will handle Ford campaigns in other major markets. The change also comes as Ford Motor -- one of the world's biggest advertisers, with a budget estimated at $4 billion a year -- seeks to build on its recent momentum, achieved despite the global economic slump, and keep selling more cars and trucks.
Team Detroit -- based in Dearborn, Mich., near the Ford worldwide headquarters -- was opened in 2006 by bringing together five WPP agencies that worked for Ford in Canada, Mexico and the United States: JWT, Mindshare, Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, Wunderman and Y&R.
The intent was to have a single management structure with a single profit and loss, increasing the effectiveness of WPP's efforts for Ford Motor -- not to mention being more efficient from a cost perspective for both WPP and its client.
Last spring, the three WPP agencies that handled Ford in Europe -- Mindshare, Ogilvy and Wunderman -- formed an agency named Blue Hive that is styled after Team Detroit.
The plans for 2011 call for a hub for the Asia-Pacific region, to be based in Shanghai, and a hub for Latin America, which may be in Sao Paulo, Brazil.
Team Detroit was born because WPP decided that ''we had to start doing things in a transformative way,'' Mr. Rogers said, to help Ford Motor after a spate of difficulties in competing against other large automakers.
''We'd been steeped in this world of bad karma for four or five years,'' Mr. Rogers recalled. ''We had to change the narrative.''
Under Mr. Barlow's purview, Team Detroit has created successful campaigns for the Ford division in the United States that carry the theme ''Drive one,'' introduced models like the Fiesta and Fusion, reintroduced a revamped Explorer and promoted local Ford dealers with Mike Rowe, the star of the reality series ''Dirty Jobs,'' appearing in ads as a low-key pitchman.
Team Detroit has also created popular campaigns for Ford trucks that feature the actor Denis Leary declaiming in his trademark ''rant'' style; the ads for the 2011 models were introduced last week. And for the Lincoln division of Ford Motor, Team Detroit recently created a well-received campaign with the actor John Slattery, who plays the adman Roger Sterling on the series ''Mad Men.''
Last month, the trade publication Advertising Age named Ford Motor as marketer of the year for 2010, citing the company's sales comeback under James D. Farley, group vice president for global marketing, sales and service.
''Any agency is only as good as the client lets them be,'' Mr. Barlow said in a phone interview from his office.
''We're fortunate with Jim Farley to be pushed and challenged,'' he added. ''It's a good kind of challenge.''
Mr. Barlow arrived in the Detroit area in 2006 after serving as executive creative director at the JWT New York office, where his duties included working on the Ford Motor account. His previous experience included creating ads for the Saturn division of General Motors at Hal Riney & Partners in San Francisco.
''I think I was pretty skeptical'' of the Team Detroit concept at first, Mr. Barlow said. ''You'd walk in a room and say, 'He's with Y&R; he's with Ogilvy,' and you're all sitting together. It was weird.''
As results were achieved, Mr. Barlow said, it became clear that ''the whole would be equal to more than the sum of the parts.''
In addition to tapping the resources of the WPP agencies that compose Team Detroit, Mr. Barlow can invite shops from outside the WPP empire to collaborate with him if he deems that worthwhile. For instance, Mutt Industries, a boutique in Portland, Ore., is working on a coming campaign for the Ford Explorer.
Of course, not everything Team Detroit handles has turned out well. Its work could not stem the sales decline for the Mercury line of cars sold by Ford Motor; the brand will be discontinued at the end of the year.
Still, ''the metrics we see on the Ford business, and the metrics I see in my business, are pretty darn good,'' Mr. Rogers said.
A continued focus by Ford Motor on the quality of its products ''is how to keep the momentum going,'' he added.
As 2010 comes to a close, ad spending by automakers in the United States ''is recovering,'' Mr. Rogers said. ''We see some positive momentum,'' he added, generated by, among others, General Motors and Toyota Motor.
Ford Motor spent $1.4 billion to advertise in major media in the United States in 2007, according to the Kantar Media unit of WPP, then fell 31.5 percent to $966.3 million in 2008 as the financial crisis made itself felt. Last year, Kantar Media reported, spending rose 8.9 percent from 2008, to $1.05 billion.
As for this year, according to Kantar Media, in the first six months Ford Motor spent $530.4 million, up 10.9 percent from the $478.4 million spent in the same period a year ago.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Toby Barlow, WPP's chief creative officer for Ford in North America, will do that job in the rest of the world, too. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE VAUGHN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); BUDGETS (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); WPP PLC (86%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (82%); JWT (54%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (86%); WPP (LSE) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (86%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (86%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (86%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (86%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (86%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (86%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (86%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (74%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (69%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); BRAZIL (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



448 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Names Transition Team and Panels, Spotlighting a Hope for Broad Support

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
Governor-elect Andrew M. Cuomo announced the leaders of his formal transition team on Thursday, along with two committees of advisers, each encompassing a wide array of business, labor and political leaders.
Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, said that his lieutenant governor-elect, Robert J. Duffy, would be the chairman and director of the transition team, coordinating efforts by Mr. Cuomo's other aides and advisers to hire top state officials and organize the executive branch before Mr. Cuomo's inauguration.
Mr. Duffy, the mayor of Rochester, will share the title of chairman with four other Cuomo supporters, together reflecting Mr. Cuomo's hope of building broad support behind his plans to rein in state spending. 
They are Representative Nydia M. Velazquez, whose district includes parts of Manhattan, Brooklyn and Queens; Joanie Mahoney, the Onondaga County executive and the most high-profile Republican official to endorse Mr. Cuomo; H. Carl McCall, a former state comptroller and a onetime Cuomo rival who is now an ally; and Felix G. Rohatyn, the financier who helped lead a bailout of New York City during the 1970s fiscal crisis.
''Each of them brings to the transition a wealth of knowledge and a deep understanding of the challenges facing the State of New York,'' Mr. Cuomo, the New York attorney general, said in a statement. He said that he and Mr. Duffy ''look forward to working with them to ensure that we attract the best and brightest talent.''
The choice of Mr. Duffy, who is well liked within Cuomo circles and known for his steady manner, gives Mr. Cuomo a transition director who can apply firsthand management experience to the critical task of organizing the executive branch.
It may also help Mr. Cuomo quell jockeying within his own inner circle over who will fill which of the most senior jobs in the new administration.
Mr. Cuomo has not yet named any of his current aides -- either from his campaign or from his attorney general staff -- to formal jobs on his transition team, and it remained unclear on Thursday whether he planned to do so.
Mr. Cuomo also named members to a new Council of Economic and Fiscal Advisers that he said would help guide his thinking on the budget and offer ''objective economic advice on the formulation of economic and budget policy'' during and after the transition. Aides to Mr. Cuomo said it would be modeled on the president's Council of Economic Advisers.
But where the president's council typically consists of academic economists, Mr. Cuomo -- who has been open about his desire to see the business community play a more active role in Albany affairs -- largely tapped chief executives and other prominent business leaders from New York, along with a handful of labor leaders. The goal, aides said, was to provide Mr. Cuomo with practical advice and insight from people with a ground-level view of the state's economic and financial problems.
They include Kenneth Adams, president of the New York State Business Council; Kenneth Chenault, chief executive of American Express; and Denis M. Hughes, president of the New York branch of the A.FL-C.I.O. Notably, the council also includes Ken Langone, the former New York Stock Exchange director and an antagonist of former Gov. Eliot Spitzer when Mr. Spitzer was New York's attorney general. Several members were major donors to Mr. Cuomo's campaign for governor.
Mr. Cuomo also named a second, 31-member committee to aid his search for personnel, which he has described as his most critical test in the weeks ahead. As is typical for such committees, its membership is conspicuously diverse, encompassing elected officials of both parties, civil rights leaders, Hispanic and black officials, labor leaders and others.
Some, like Peter Ward, president of the hotel trades unions, are longtime allies of Mr. Cuomo's. Others have been sharp critics, including Elinor Tatum, the publisher of The Amsterdam News, the Harlem newspaper, who made waves during the campaign with an editorial criticizing Mr. Cuomo for not campaigning enough in black communities.
The recruiting committee also includes all four leaders of the Legislature: Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker; Brian Kolb, the Assembly minority leader; John L. Sampson, the Democratic Senate leader; and Dean G. Skelos, the Republican Senate leader.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); COUNTIES (73%); BAILOUTS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (65%); LAWYERS (64%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (92%); NYDIA VELAZQUEZ (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



449 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: Resurrecting a Village By Buying Up Main Street

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
MOUNT MORRIS, N.Y. -- For several years, Greg O'Connell moved stealthily, buying building after building along a run-down stretch of Main Street here.
It was a puzzling property grab in this rural village, 25 miles south of Rochester, whose commercial district was little more than shabby, vacant storefronts. Few people knew Mr. O'Connell's name, but the ''faceless New York developer,'' as one businessman put it, was a persistent topic of speculation.
What did he want with one- and two-story buildings sagging from decades of neglect, competition with big-box stores like Wal-Mart and the loss of manufacturing jobs in the Finger Lakes? Was he a slumlord?
His intentions became clear in the last year as he took control of more than a third of downtown and began chipping away at the building facades, renovating apartments and signing up tenants. Mr. O'Connell, 68, a big, shambling retired New York City detective, wants nothing less than to bring Mount Morris back from the dead and make it a western New York version of Red Hook, Brooklyn, where he made his name and millions. 
He has snatched up 19 buildings, some at tax lien sales for $2,000, and has restored the historic look of a half-dozen storefronts, dusting off the tin ceilings and renovating the apartments on the second floor, where he has installed new bathrooms and oak floors. New businesses -- an Italian restaurant, a barber shop, an antiques store and a gourmet food shop -- are opening in long-vacant spaces, with leases from Mr. O'Connell that require the businesses to leave their lights on at night, stay open at least one evening a week and change their window displays at least four times a year.
There are plans for a gallery where local artists and artisans can display their work and get help with the business of selling the items.
''I feel like I'm 21 again, starting all over,'' Mr. O'Connell said in an interview. ''We've gotten some things up and running. We're now trying to figure out how to make it sustainable.''
Like some kind of whirlwind, he has swept up nearly everyone in his quest. He enlisted high school students to build and place flower boxes along Main Street and students from nearby SUNY Geneseo to design public-relations and marketing strategies for downtown businesses. In April, Geneseo students startled passers-by when they performed ''Waiting for Godot'' in one of his empty storefronts.
''Greg coming in started the ball rolling,'' said Harold F. Long, the tanned, white-haired mayor. ''Other businesses followed suit. And not only other businesses got involved; people in the village started to spruce up their homes.''
It is anyone's guess whether any of Mr. O'Connell's tenants, most of them first-time business owners, can survive the rough economy or the notoriously short life expectancy of a small business, not to mention the region's significant challenges.
Mount Morris sits in Livingston County at the edge of an attraction unself-consciously called the Grand Canyon of the East, a gorge with three waterfalls in Letchworth State Park. The village was still a thriving hub when Mr. O'Connell graduated from the State University of New York at Geneseo in 1964. There were lots of farms and small factories making everything from bottles to brooms. ''You could buy anything from a deck of cards to a car,'' Mr. Long recalled.
But Mount Morris began a long decline with the loss of manufacturing jobs, the construction of an expressway that bypassed the village and competition from Wal-Mart. The downtown buildings fell into disrepair, and the businesses expired.
''There wasn't anything to attract anyone to Mount Morris,'' Mr. Long said.
Mr. O'Connell, who reckons he has spent $1 million on the 19 properties and plans to spend another $1 million on renovations, says he has had a soft spot for the area ever since he attended SUNY Geneseo. He moved to New York City after graduation to join the Police Department, and did not turn his attention to Red Hook until long after he retired, in 1981.
He bought waterfront land cheaply from the city and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, and set about renovating dormant Civil War-era stone warehouses on the piers, where wild dogs and drug dealers roamed.
Today, his buildings house more than 150 small businesses and Fairway, the high-end grocery that has attracted patrons from all over Brooklyn.
Critics like John McGettrick, co-chairman of the Red Hook Civic Association, say that Mr. O'Connell has been more adept at acquiring cheap land from the government than in making good on his promises, citing a half-mile esplanade and a park that he has yet to deliver.
But Michelle de la Uz, executive director of the nonprofit Fifth Avenue Committee, said Mr. O'Connell had been a ''catalyst'' for a resurgent Red Hook.
''He was one of the early people willing to put his money where his mouth was to help realize a vision, and he included the community in the process,'' said Ms. de la Uz, whose organization recently developed 60 subsidized apartments on land bought from Mr. O'Connell.
Over the years, Mr. O'Connell, who often dresses in overalls and refers to his paper-strewn pickup as his office, bought a house on 57 acres in Geneseo and five farms in the area, and now spends most of his time there, leaving his two sons to run his holdings in Red Hook.
No doubt, Mr. O'Connell is a big shot in Mount Morris, a village of 3,500. He is a major investor in the local Bank of Castile, a corn syrup factory and the county's largest private employer, American Rock Salt, the largest operating salt mine in the United States. He has had to adjust to local customs; his workers tend to disappear during hunting and maple syrup seasons.
''Before Greg came, we couldn't wait to get out of Mount Morris,'' said Teresa Brado, who now plans to open the Rainy Day Cafe in a recently gutted brick building owned by Mr. O'Connell. ''I never realized how much a difference it makes to leave the lights on at night. And the new businesses are working together. I'm buying my lamps at the antique shops.''
Rents for Mr. O'Connell's stores run about $5 a square foot, a paltry sum by New York City standards. Carol Huffman, who rents a store for her antiques and used-furniture business, Treasure Island, said she was also paying $300 a month for the cozy, exposed-brick apartment she rented upstairs from her store.
''I'm more interested in making it active down here,'' Mr. O'Connell said. ''It's not about the bottom line, although at the end of the day when I look at acquisition and renovation costs, there's still a profit to be made on something like this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Greg O'Connell, top, and a building he bought in Mount Morris, N.Y., near Rochester, with plans to turn it into a bakery and cafe. Mr. O'Connell, of New York City, has acquired 19 buildings in the village's downtown, above, which had been mostly empty. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAX SCHULTE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); RETAILERS (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (75%); RESTAURANTS (74%); LAYOFFS (69%); GOURMET FOOD STORES (69%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (67%); MARKETING STRATEGY (65%); COMPANY STRATEGY (65%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%); INTERVIEWS (62%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



450 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Wall St. Brings Its Misgivings to the World

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- The harsh aftermath of the global financial crisis of two years ago still weighed on corporate chiefs and political leaders as they gathered on Thursday in closed-door discussions on the sidelines of the two-day meeting of the Group of 20 economic powers.
Vikram S. Pandit, the Citigroup chief executive, hinted at some frustration with the public backlash against Wall Street. 
''I kind of feel like I'm living in parallel universes,'' he said. ''I'm here in Korea and I feel this warmth and the need and the sense of trying to have a dialogue with each other, but then when I get back to my real universe, it's cold in that universe.''
He was one of the about 120 executives who took part in the Seoul G-20 Business Summit, a daylong conference here.
Stephen A. Schwarzman, the private equity magnate, for instance, shared his misgivings about financial regulatory overhauls with the German chancellor, Angela Merkel.
But in a lunch address, Mrs. Merkel expressed little sympathy with bankers' complaints about excessive regulation. ''We need a regulatory framework that encourages being risk aware, not risk averse,'' she said. ''There needs to be a mind shift away from making money to earning money, in the proper sense.''
She, however, agreed with the executives' larger point about fostering, rather than retreating from, global economic interconnectedness. ''Revitalizing trade, revitalizing foreign direct investment, revitalizing corporate financial stability -- this is the basic condition to return to a sustainable growth path,'' she said.
The South Korean government and two major business groups, the Federation of Korean Industries and the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry, began organizing the business meeting months ago.
The business executives were divided into 12 groups, most of which included a head of government who spoke at the outset and then listened in on the discussion.
''The most important players in reviving and energizing the economy are the enterprises,'' the South Korean president, Lee Myung-bak, said.
Many of the discussions also led to some unusual juxtapositions. The Australian prime minister, Julia Gillard, spoke out about greedy mortgage bankers as Thomas J. Donohue, president of the United States Chamber of Commerce and one of President Obama's most vocal critics, listened politely.
Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, the president of Spain, addressed the session on encouraging the use of renewable energy sources. South Africa's president, Jacob G. Zuma, accompanied the discussion on foreign direct investment. And the Japanese prime minister, Naoto Kan, spoke to the session devoted to revitalizing world trade. Chief executives also pushed the message of ensuring open border for trade.
''Sometimes we lose sight of the fact that the lifeblood of the global economy is in fact the free flow of trade and investment,'' said Victor K. Fung, chairman of the Li & Fung Group, a giant manager of global supply chains based in Hong Kong. ''One of the greatest threats to the global economy at this stage is the rise of protectionism,'' Mr. Fung said.
Several attendees saw the common ground that the chief executives and political leaders were pitching.
The seriousness with which the political leaders took the discussions took some by surprise.
Professor Jeffrey E. Garten, who teaches international trade and finance at the Yale School of Management, moderated a discussion on foreign direct investment with the Russian president, Dmitri A. Medvedev. He said afterward: ''He was extremely attentive. He took copious notes on what was said. For a head of state of a country that size, whose purview goes beyond economics, obviously, he was very sharp and up on the issues.''
At times, the business leaders expressed skepticism about excessive regulations, particularly in the financial sector.
Josef Ackermann, the chief executive of Deutsche Bank and the chairman of the Institute of International Finance, a global industry association, suggested that derivatives, the financial instruments that gained notoriety during the 2008 crisis, had too often been unfairly maligned.
''We should not kill these products before we understand the impact on the real economy,'' he said. ''Many of these products are very useful. They are creating wealth and prosperity in the world.''
But at other times, the politicians offered a dose of reality to the corporate chieftains. Mr. Zuma, for instance, reacted to a proposal for a nonbinding, model treaty on international direct investment by saying that however beneficial it would be, the executives were underestimating the vastly disparate circumstances that countries seeking foreign capital found themselves in.
In a 196-page report of findings and recommendations, and in a seven-page joint statement, the executives called for investments in infrastructure and energy, improvements in energy efficiency, and paying heed to issues of inequality, like the high rates of unemployment among youth worldwide and the inadequate access to health care in poor countries.
The executives did not offer real breakthroughs, though, on the trade imbalances that have overshadowed the G-20 leaders' gathering.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stephen A. Schwarzman, left, of the Blackstone Group, and Kim Seung-youn, right, chief of Hanwha, met on Wednesday. (POOL PHOTO BY HOANG DINH-NAM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (67%); MORTGAGE BANKING (66%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (64%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (63%); US PRESIDENTS (60%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); COMMERCE & INDUSTRY INSURANCE CO (53%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (66%); LEE MYUNG-BAK (59%); JACOB ZUMA (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); VIKRAM PANDIT (56%); JULIA GILLARD (50%); NAOTO KAN (50%); JOSE LUIS RODRIGUEZ ZAPATERO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); SPAIN (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); JAPAN (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



451 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: Path to Learning: In Class or Online?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
As someone who has been teaching online classes for the last eight years, I found the online experience that was described in ''Still in Dorm, Because Class Is on the Web'' (front page, Nov. 5) unfamiliar.
The article points out that most private institutions dislike online education because they pride themselves on a low student-to-teacher ratio, yet at my public college the enrollment is restricted to 25 students per class. This low student-to-teacher ratio leads to a much different online environment than the impersonal large classes that were described in your article. 
In fact, I would argue that the online experience in a small class is incredibly intimate. Students and faculty interact weekly through online discussions, and everyone knows everyone else in the class.
Students get a large dose of one-on-one interaction with the instructor that is often missing in a traditional classroom setting. Some students who would be loath to discuss their views when face to face with their professor thrive in an asynchronous discussion in which they have the time to digest what is being said and formulate their thoughts before replying. Others, however, find the high level of weekly interaction too much to take and would prefer to sit in the back row and take notes.
Online education is clearly not for everyone, but it certainly doesn't have to be the impersonal experience that you describe.
Paul Azrak Bayside, Queens, Nov. 5, 2010
The writer is a professor of economics at Queensborough Community College, CUNY.
To the Editor:
It is evident that the main reason for the significant increase in online courses is economic and not because they are superior to traditional in-person classes. Regardless of the course, an important dimension of the educational experience is lost when students ''interact'' with a computer rather than with their professor and other students.
As it is, today's students have become overly enamored with and excessively dependent on electronic gadgetry for communication and learning. This has resulted in a general decline in interpersonal skills and ''emotional intelligence'' -- skills that are crucial for success in the workplace and other venues.
It would be sad, indeed, if college administrators, because of budgetary pressures, lose sight of the advantages of the real classroom experience and continue to feed the online course mania.
Michael Klausner Bradford, Pa., Nov. 5, 2010
The writer is an associate professor of sociology at the University of Pittsburgh.
To the Editor:
Having taught a large, distance-education human development course for 13 years (initially sent out via television, in the pre-Internet days), I've found that this format is convenient and wildly popular among highly motivated, busy students trying to fit everything into a tight schedule.
Several strategies help make it work. First, online courses should be only for sophomores and higher; no freshmen allowed. This should not be the way students are introduced to college.
Second, I provide an optional ''live'' introductory meeting and ''live'' review sessions before each exam for those who want to meet me and be able to ask questions. Our three exams are sit-down sessions on campus, not online, and ID is required (for obvious reasons).
I have online discussion board check-ins at several points during the semester that give students a chance to post reflective comments and also alert me to who isn't keeping up.
I always warn my students at the start of the semester -- and remind them constantly -- to keep to the schedule, because it's not going to be fun looking at 10 hours of my face the night before the exam!
Jill Ellen Steinberg Madison, Wis., Nov. 5, 2010
The writer teaches human development and family studies at the University of Wisconsin, Madison.
To the Editor:
I've taken online courses as part of graduate work, and I've had my children take a few to bolster their high school curriculum. From my experience, I have to say we should be extremely wary of the move toward online education. Here's why:
People cheat. All the time. Sure, they cheat on campus, but it is extraordinarily easy to cheat online. The easiest way is to simply have someone else do the course for you. Another way is by searching for information while taking a test.
The education can be the same or even better online, but you must have a really great teacher, and the teacher must engage the students as much as, or more than, in a real classroom. Most online courses fail to have the give and take that real classes do; if you're confused, you can't ask the instructor to stop and explain.
If the company or university is going online to save money, you bet it will try to cut corners as much as it can. That means a noninteractive, bottom-of-the-line course, with students able to cheat easily.
We are truly on the race to the bottom if all we care about is the very expensive piece of paper that says we took X credits at X university. Why not just charge $160,000 for the piece of paper and be done with it?
Diana Lambert Cherry Hill, N.J., Nov. 9, 2010
To the Editor:
Perhaps Internet courses can deliver instruction, but I wonder if they can provide the genuine inspiration and insight that a truly good teacher offers.
College is a chance to stumble onto a completely new subject that you never knew you'd find interesting, and while Internet courses are great for topics that students already enjoy, they don't offer the window onto new worlds that a good professor can provide.
I was not an art fan when I started school, but after a semester with a particularly engaging professor, I changed my major to art history. I wouldn't have had that experience had I been sitting in front of a laptop.
Emily Keizer Eugene, Ore., Nov. 9, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID GIBSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ONLINE SCHOOLS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); DISTANCE LEARNING (89%); WRITERS (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); STUDENT TEACHER RATIO (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); COMPUTER BASED TRAINING (68%); SOCIOLOGY (68%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



452 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'EICHMANN'; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: The Logistician of the Holocaust

BYLINE: By MIKE HALE

 BODY:
''Eichmann,'' an English-language drama produced in Hungary and already shown around the world since its release in 2007, claims the moral high ground of being based not just on a true story but on ''official Israeli interrogation manuscripts.'' The filmmakers are so eager to armor themselves with facts that they open with both an encyclopedia entry (the Holocaust) and a dictionary entry (Adolf Eichmann). 
If only they had paid more attention to their story, a tepid affair centered on the jailhouse interrogation of Eichmann (Thomas Kretschmann), the logistician of the Holocaust, by a young Israeli policeman, Avner Less (Troy Garity), before Eichmann's 1961 war-crimes trial. Secondary story lines include the furor in Jerusalem surrounding the trial, which disrupts the lives of Less and his wife, Vera (Franka Potente), and scenes from Eichmann's memories of the war, which allow for the introduction of several beautiful, naked blondes.
The director Robert Young, a veteran of British television, and the writer Snoo Wilson hint at parallels between the Nazi bureaucracy of extermination and the Israeli bureaucracy of justice and revenge; rows of researchers sift through records for evidence of Eichmann's direct culpability. When Less's wife is angry because he did not tell her about his new assignment, his answer is essentially that he was just following orders.
While Less is guaranteed victory in the story, the confrontation between Mr. Kretschmann (''The Pianist,''''Valkyrie'') and Mr. Garity (''Barbershop'') is no contest. Even while playing Eichmann as Hannah Arendt's everyday murderer -- a choice that further reduces the film's level of interest or insight -- Mr. Kretschmann holds your attention through each whining complaint and bland denial. His character may be banal, but his portrayal is the only thing that keeps you watching.
EICHMANN
Opens on Friday in Manhattan.
Directed by Robert Young; written by Snoo Wilson, based on official Israeli interrogation manuscripts; director of photography, Michael Connor; edited by Saska Simpson; music by Richard Harvey; production design by Tibor Lazar; costumes by Alyson Ritchie; produced by Karl Richards; released by Regent Releasing and the Advocate. At the Quad Cinema, 34 West 13th Street, Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes. This film is not rated.
WITH: Thomas Kretschmann (Adolf Eichmann), Troy Garity (Avner Less), Franka Potente (Vera Less), Stephen Fry (Minister Tormer), Delaine Yates (Miriam Frohlich) and Tereza Srbova (Ingrid Von Ihama).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLOCAUST (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (77%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (77%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (77%); WRITERS (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); WAR CRIMES (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (64%); INTEREST RATES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (58%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); HUNGARY (90%); ISRAEL (58%)

TITLE: Eichmann (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



453 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Yes, There's a Shortfall; That's the Starting Point

BYLINE: By ROSS RAMSEY. 
rramsey@texastribune.org

 BODY:
How big is the state's budget shortfall? It depends on who's doing the math.
Start with what it would cost to keep the state running just like it's running now, only add to that the increased school enrollments, health care rolls and whatnot. Subtract that sum from the amount of money Comptroller Susan Combs predicts will be available to spend over the next two years, and you get a big negative number.
Or, instead, start with the current budget and assume no increases in spending (tell the public schools, for instance, that even though they have more students enrolling, you're giving them the same amount they got last year because times are tight). Subtract that from Ms. Combs's estimate, and you get a smaller negative number. 
Ms. Combs won't present her revenue estimate until January, and legislators don't have a starting budget yet. But House leaders, including Jim Pitts, the Appropriations Committee chairman, are talking about a shortfall in excess of $20 billion -- while Senate leaders, including Steve Ogden, the Finance Committee chairman, are insisting the gap is less than $15 billion. Gov. Rick Perry is with Mr. Ogden, bragging about what a smart guy his old friend is and how good his numbers are.
It matters politically. A big shortfall means the coming legislative session will be all about what's being cut; what programs and services won't be offered. A smaller one puts lawmakers in the position of deciding, in hard times, what they can add to current spending. The ending numbers would be the same, more or less, but the political positioning is critically different.
The arithmetic of the budget is simple: Take in this much, spend that much, and try to make sure the first number is bigger than the second.
The first number -- income -- includes federal money, taxes, fees, lottery proceeds and so on and can't, in the current ideological environment, include anything that could be characterized as new taxes. Some lawmakers have the dexterity to say fees aren't taxes. In 2003, the Legislature cut financing for higher education while giving state universities the power to set their own tuition. Tuition rose faster than a bottle rocket, but lawmakers who engineered the swap still say they balanced that budget without raising taxes.
Politicians of both parties in Texas have become expert at not-a-tax-increase ways to raise money. Allowing slot machines at racetracks, or full casino gambling, is one. Getting rid of exemptions to current property taxes or sales taxes or business taxes is another, though each seems like a new tax to anyone who was previously exempt.
The state pays part of the cost of public education, with taxpayers in various locales picking up the balance, but cutting the state's share and letting the locals pay more is under discussion this year. Like the college tuition dodge of eight years ago, it allows a lawmaker to say with a straight face that no taxes were raised -- even as it forces school boards around the state to decide whether to raise local property taxes or cut their own spending.
That 2003 Legislature was plenty conservative, but it was pre-Tea Party, which means it didn't fully share that movement's loathing for government spending. This time, with an even bigger Republican majority in the House, spending will get a harder look.
At a Capitol forum last week, the head of the conservative Texas Public Policy Foundation, former State Representative Arlene Wohlgemuth, Republican of Burleson, described a new hurdle for gambling lobbyists. Their argument to state lawmakers is that gambling would produce $1 billion or more in revenue for the state treasury. But a lot of the new Republicans elected last Tuesday don't want the state to have access to new money of any kind. It would allow more government spending, and they're against that.
That's another reason the budget's starting place is important. Some see the state's economic situation in the traditional way: that lawmakers have to find money to keep current programs and services going. The assumption, usually unstated, is that there's a financial problem but that nothing is wrong with the government itself.
Sounds like the Tea Party never happened, right?
Here's the post-Tea version: Stop feeding the thing, and watch it shrink.
It all depends on where you start.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX INCREASES (78%); SALES TAX (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); TAX LAW (73%); POLITICS (72%); GAMING (67%); CASINOS (67%); PROPERTY TAX (62%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); LOTTERIES (50%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



454 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Checking Out, And Donating, Too

BYLINE: By SCOTT JAMES. 
Scott James is an Emmy-winning television journalist and novelist who lives in San Francisco. sjames@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
The customer swiped his loyalty card at the Safeway supermarket on Market Street in San Francisco last month, and a message appeared on the display: Care to make a donation to fight breast cancer today?
When he pressed ''no,'' his cashier, wearing a pink polo shirt, smiled and asked, ''Would you like to make a donation to breast cancer?''
''I just said no,'' the man said, pointing to the screen. 
''We're required to ask,'' the cashier said.
In October, Safeway stores throughout the Bay Area, and across the nation, made their annual determined effort to raise money for research and awareness in the fight against breast cancer. The markets were awash in pink displays, and at times loudspeakers filled customers' ears with more solicitations than a public radio pledge drive.
For some, it was too much -- even if it was for a good cause. But like it or not, when charitable giving is in a free fall elsewhere, Safeway's approach can be summed up in two words: it works.
A small donation built into prices or requested at the checkout -- part of a trend called embedded giving -- appears to resonate with shoppers. An analysis by the Chronicle of Philanthropy showed that donations to the nation's largest charities dropped by 11 percent in 2009. That same year, Safeway's campaign against breast cancer collected more than $18 million, nearly the same as the previous year.
This week Safeway reported that proceeds from last month's campaign were $16.1 million -- a decline from last year, but ahead of where experts predict many charities will end up in 2010 due to the recession.
''We're still raising big money in a down economy,'' said Brian Dowling, Safeway's vice president of public affairs.
It is also good for business. A survey by Cone Inc. earlier this year showed that 85 percent of American consumers had a more positive image of companies that support worthy causes.
But feelings about the fund-raising techniques can be complex.
Holly M., who asked that her full name not be used because of privacy concerns, said that she is a cancer survivor and believed in the cause at Safeway, but that she only recently obtained a full-time job after nearly two years of unemployment. She did not appreciate being made to feel guilty at the register for not donating.
''I won't go to the cashier,'' she said. ''I use the self-checkout instead.''
A random survey of a dozen transactions in October found that 50 percent of the time Safeway cashiers asked for donations after customers pressed ''no'' on the display. Mr. Dowling said this was against company policy. ''They shouldn't be asking twice,'' he said, adding that customer complaints about the campaign are rare. ''We don't want to bug anybody.''
But critics say that concerns about pestering are emerging as the practice of embedded giving grows in popularity. Petco, Whole Foods and Target are among the many retailers doing such fund-raising.
''It makes it so easy to give,'' said Lucy Bernholz of Blueprint Research & Design Inc., a San Francisco firm that consults philanthropic organizations. ''But it has become so pervasive there is a chance of donor fatigue.''
For example, Ms. Bernholz said that when she left her office downtown it was not unusual to be solicited for money on the street, then to be approached by someone asking for help with a political cause, and later to face a retailer's plea.
''There comes a point where there is a cumulative sense of guilt and exhaustion,'' she said, eventually alienating donors.
There are also concerns about what happens to donations. Ms. Bernholz said that embedded giving was largely unregulated, and that some retailers kept a percentage of donations as a ''finder's fee.''
In the case of Safeway, 100 percent of the customer donations go to charities and causes, according to I.R.S. records. Additionally, the company donates fund-raising infrastructure and the salaries of the executives running the Safeway Foundation, the nonprofit organization that coordinates the fund-raisers (breast cancer is one of several held each year).
Among the programs that receive Safeway's donations is the I-SPY Trial, which seeks to match women with targeted treatments for breast cancer based on biological and genetic markers -- a breakthrough that could improve survival rates.
Dr. Laura Esserman, who oversees the research, said the trial was expected to take four years and cost $25 million -- one third of that paid by Safeway, money that also arrived so quickly it advanced the project by two years.
''We wouldn't be able to do it without them,'' Dr. Esserman said.
Imagine how many lives might be saved because of those two years. Maybe asking twice isn't such bad thing after all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (90%); BREAST CANCER (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); CANCER (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); LOYALTY MARKETING (78%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); TRENDS (72%); RECESSION (72%); CHARITABLE GIVING (72%); PUBLIC RADIO (72%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%)

COMPANY: SAFEWAY INC (85%); CONE INC (64%)

TICKER: SWY (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (85%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



455 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THE TIPSY DIARIES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: Spiking Coffee, Opening Eyes

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
Is it supposed to snap you to attention or slide you deeper into your buzz? Help you wind down or get you wound up? I've never really understood spiked coffee. In hitching caffeine (a stimulant) to alcohol (a depressant), it strikes me as a curiously self-canceling experience. Like wearing sun block to a tanning parlor. Or eating a Krispy Kreme on an elliptical.
That's partly why I never developed much of a taste for such drinks, though I also never saw them as particularly exalted concoctions. More often than not, when I watched a drinker add booze to brew, the infusion was a milky, messy nimbus of Baileys or a cloying slick of Kahlua, and the measure didn't matter much.
But on a recent afternoon at the Randolph at Broome, a bar in downtown Manhattan, Troy Sidle turned to a higher class of spirits, in exact proportions, for the establishment's signature ''coffee cocktails,'' which reflected considerably more ambition and thought. 
''It's an extreme challenge to balance coffee as an element, because it's so incredibly complex,'' explained Mr. Sidle, a consultant who helped develop these drinks specifically for the Randolph. ''It has acids, sugars, waxes, oils.''
''A great cup of black coffee is inherently balanced,'' he added. Monkey with it, he said, and you risk throwing everything out of whack. Across five fastidiously composed coffee cocktails, he took that chance with Bulleit bourbon, Sailor Jerry rum, Laird's apple brandy, Landy cognac and Ramazzotti, an Italian amaro, among other spirits. For sweetener he used house-made syrups and to round those out he used house-made salt solutions. He shook and strained and added orange, lemon or grapefruit peels.
And thus he traced a beverage frontier that is bound to get more attention over the next few years, as cocktail worship and coffee fetishism inevitably overlap.
The Randolph unveiled its coffee cocktails -- three of them iced, two of them hot -- about four months ago. Just last month Fort Defiance, an 18-month-old bar and restaurant in the Red Hook section of Brooklyn, brought back its two much-beloved coffee-alcohol amalgams, which it had introduced a year ago and then cycled off the menu last spring, as the weather warmed.
At the moment these two establishments represent rare bars that take pride in, and promote, drinks incorporating coffee. But St. John Frizell, the principal owner of Fort Defiance, doesn't think that will remain so for long. ''Cocktail culture and coffee culture are so similar,'' he said, noting that each presents would-be chemists with a less geeky, more sybaritic opportunity for gadgetry and potion making. ''It's a lot about machines and science.''
I found myself calling him -- and thinking about spiked coffee in general -- on the heels of all those news reports about the caffeinated malt liquor Four Loko, which helps young revelers stay awake later, so they can drink longer.
Caffeine with alcohol: how dangerous, how insidious, how ... Irish coffee. Indeed, there is a long if not entirely glorious history of caffeine and alcohol joining forces, of whiskey or liqueurs poured into after-dinner coffee by adults looking for the same sort of effect that Four Loko fans seek: an extension of the night without a surrender of the buzz.
''You want to wake up but you don't want to sober up -- not yet,'' Mr. Frizell said of the rationale behind spiked coffee. Fort Defiance sells most of its versions of these drinks around 10 or 11 p.m., not earlier and not during weekend brunch, when people craving the hair of the dog almost always opt for a bloody mary, he said.
One of Fort Defiance's offerings is the classic Irish coffee but prepared with a degree of care that the drink doesn't typically receive. ''Our Irish coffee might be the best thing we've ever served,'' Mr. Frizell said.
The coffee is really diluted espresso, made with Counter Culture beans in a La Marzocco espresso machine, and the cream that goes into it is chilled then shaken so that it thickens and gives the drink, which also includes Irish whiskey and sugar, more body.
Fort Defiance also serves a variation on this called Koffie Van Brunt, named for the street that it is on. This drink uses eight-year-old rum, in place of whiskey, and cherry liqueur, with cinnamon and orange zest sprinkled on top.
Mr. Frizell and Mr. Sidle said that most bars haven't bothered with proper coffee drinks because of the headaches of proper coffee service: acquiring the equipment; carving out enough space for it; training bartenders to be baristas as well; asking them to take the time during busy hours to make fresh cups of coffee, which is the only way really to get things right.
And many restaurants have begun paying truly serious attention to their cocktails and their coffee only in recent years. They haven't yet integrated those two impulses.
At Fort Defiance, whose identity is more bar than restaurant, Mr. Frizell determined early on that he wanted to serve respectable coffee, a decision befitting a borough that strives for the artisanal in all things. Mixing drinks with that coffee was a logical segue.
The Randolph, which opened in 2007, didn't begin serving its coffee cocktails until earlier this year. Looking for a way to bring in some extra revenue before 5 p.m., its operators decided to restyle the bar during the day partly as a coffee shop, with a full array of equipment, beans from top-tier roasters like Counter Culture and Intelligentsia, and a fully trained staff, who let customers choose between cups made through a slow-drip process, with individual filters, or French press.
The operators also became familiar with Alchemy, a bar and restaurant consulting firm in which Mr. Sidle is a partner. They asked him, Toby Maloney and the other players in Alchemy to help them develop a menu of special coffee drinks both with and without alcohol. (Among those nonalcoholic ones, don't miss the Fountainhead, made with sarsaparilla, orange peel and whipped cream, and get a few of the minuscule tartlets called pumpkin pie shots, from Dark Horse Baking, to go with it.)
From Alchemy's exertions the Cup o' Jerry was born. It's a hot drink, combining coffee with the Sailor Jerry rum and the Ramazzotti, which has orange notes. An orange-peel garnish seals the orangey deal, for a drink that's equal parts fruity and feisty.
Also intriguing, though a little on the sweet side, is the Slow Trip to New Orleans, an iced mix of coffee, bourbon and sloe gin. Like almost all of the drinks Mr. Sidle mixed for me, it manages to convey coffee flavor without letting the coffee eclipse everything else. Coffee is star but not diva, and the production is indeed a cocktail in the end.
But when would one consume it? How many people are downing spiked coffee between 11 a.m. and 5 p.m.? (For now, that is roughly the time span during which the Randolph serves coffee cocktails; as the bar turns more staffers into baristas, it will almost certainly extend that period.) The Randolph's operators say they have plenty of takers.
''There are a lot more people who don't have jobs out there than you think,'' said Dave Plate, a partner in the bar along with Hari Kalyan, adding that some of them can even afford not to work, along with the $13 that each coffee cocktail costs.
Mr. Maloney added that the announced rate of 9.6 percent unemployment ''may be lower than it actually is,'' at least judging from the traffic through bars.
For House Democrats, that helped close a chapter. But for coffee cocktails, it has apparently opened a door.
Where an Oxymoron Thrives
FORT DEFIANCE 365 Van Brunt Street, at Dikeman Street, Red Hook, Brooklyn; (347) 453-6672; fortdefiancebrooklyn.com.
THE RANDOLPH AT BROOME 349 Broome Street, between Bowery and Elizabeth, Little Italy; (212) 274-0667; randolphnyc.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Slow Trip to New Orleans, a coffee cocktail at the Randolph at Broome. (C25)
 Troy Sidle, left, a bartender at the Randolph at Broome, mixes a Slow Trip to New Orleans, one of many spiked coffees offered there, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (89%); COFFEE (77%); DRINKING PLACES (77%); TANNING SALONS (76%); RESTAURANTS (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) LOUISIANA, USA (74%); NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



456 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Prosecutions in Backdating Scandal Bring Mixed Results

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
Before Lehman Brothers imploded, before Bernard L. Madoff's arrest and before the global economy's near-collapse, there was the backdating of stock options.
On Wednesday, a federal judge in Los Angeles sentenced Bruce E. Karatz, the former chief executive of KB Home, to five years of probation. His case is likely to be the last criminal trial relating to backdating, a scandal that ensnared dozens of executives over allegations that the dates of stock-option awards had been manipulated to enrich recipients.
When the first cases emerged in 2006, they looked like low-hanging fruit for federal prosecutors. The Securities and Exchange Commission and the Justice Department investigated more than 100 companies. Internal investigations by companies led to scores of financial restatements and dozens of executive dismissals. But on the criminal front, the government has had mixed results, winning several trials but also losing a number of prominent cases. In all, 12 executives across the country were received criminal sentences, five of them prison terms. The others were sentenced to probation. 
''These prosecutions went out with a whimper rather than a bang,'' said Christopher J. Clark, a criminal defense lawyer at Dewey LeBoeuf who has done work on backdating cases. ''With few convictions and no substantial sentences, juries and the courts simply did not agree with the government's position that stock option backdating represented a serious financial crime.''
That was not the view of several judges. Judge Jed S. Rakoff of Federal District Court in Lower Manhattan gave the longest prison term to an executive charged with conduct related to backdating. In September 2009 he sentenced James J. Treacy, the former chief operating officer of Monster Worldwide, to two years in prison for improperly accounting for backdated stock options. ''I don't have any doubt the jury's verdict was correct,'' Judge Rakoff said at sentencing. ''It is appalling; it is disgusting that this practice went on.'' Mr. Treacy's conviction is on appeal.
The backdating scandal was set off in 2005 after Erik Lie, a finance professor at the University of Iowa, published a study that showed an uncanny number of cases where companies granted stock options to executives right before a sharp increase in their stocks. The S.E.C. and The Wall Street Journal then began to look at individual companies.
''I never expected my study would lead to anything,'' Professor Lie said. ''At the time we published the paper, it wasn't clear that regulators would view the activity as illegal.''
That was a major challenge for prosecutors in these cases: The practice, which involved complex accounting, disclosure and tax issues, was not necessarily illegal. It was not the backdating that was against the law, but the improper accounting of it that was illegal.
The backdating scandal has created a fugitive - Jacob Alexander, known as Kobi, the former chief executive of Comverse Technology, who fled to Namibia under suspicion of conspiracy, securities fraud and other offenses.
On the civil side, the S.E.C. filed about 50 cases. The largest one involved Dr. William W. McGuire, the former chief executive of the UnitedHealth Group, who paid $468 million in civil fines and restitution to the company.
Irrespective of whether stock-options backdating resulted in penalties, the practice turned out to be relatively common. About 150 companies issued restatements because of allegations of backdating stock options, a list that included Apple and Cablevision. In a study published last year, Professor Lie and a colleague concluded that about 29 percent of American businesses, more than 2,000 companies, that made stock-option grants to executives from 1996 through 2005 had manipulated them.
''The corporate crime lottery was never cranked up more than it was in the backdating cases,'' said Larry E. Ribstein, a law professor at the University of Illinois. ''Concern about justice becomes most intense when you're talking about criminal violations, and you don't really don't want randomness.''
Some of the cases also were hurt by missteps by prosecutors. The case against Henry T. Nicholas III, the co-chief executive of Broadcom Corporation, one of the highest-profile backdating trials, fell apart after the judge found evidence of prosecutorial misconduct.
On Wednesday, Judge Otis D. Wright II criticized prosecutors in Mr. Karatz's case. He sentenced Mr. Karatz to five years probation, rejecting the government's request to send him to prison for six and a half years. Judge Wright called the government's sentencing memorandum ''mean-spirited and beneath this office'' for suggesting that sentencing Mr. Karatz to home detention in his ''24-room Bel Air mansion'' would suggest ''a two-tiered criminal justice system, one for the affluent and a second for ordinary citizens.''
''To invite public ridicule and scorn on this institution, I think, is unspeakable,'' the judge said.
He said he ''lost a lot of sleep over the right thing to do,'' but in sentencing Mr. Karatz to probation he noted the lack of evidence that his crime had damaged KB Home and its shareholders.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bruce Karatz, top, formerly of KB Home, before sentencing Wednesday. William W. McGuire, above left, Henry T. Nicholas III, Gregory Reyes and Jacob Alexander, all of whom were touched by the backdating scandal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICK UT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BACKDATED STOCK OPTIONS (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); PROBATION (90%); SCANDALS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); JUDGES (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); VERDICTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); LAWYERS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (84%); MONSTER WORLDWIDE INC (65%); KB HOME CORP (58%); DEWEY & LEBOEUF LLP (55%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: MWW (NYSE) (65%); KBH (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (65%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (65%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (58%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (58%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (55%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



457 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; INSIDE ART; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Major Gift of Furniture To National Gallery of Art

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
The National Gallery of Art in Washington has been promised one of the most impressive collections of American furniture still in private hands, along with a group of Dutch old master paintings and watercolors by seminal American artists like Winslow Homer and Childe Hassam.
The gift --crucial for the gallery -- is coming from Linda Kaufman, widow of George M. Kaufman, a real estate developer from Norfolk, Va., who died in 2001. Under the terms of the agreement, the gallery will get the Kaufmans' holdings three years after Mrs. Kaufman's death. In the meantime, some works are already on loan to the gallery. The institution will be able to borrow others and is planning a major exhibition of the furniture collection in two years. 
While the White House and State Department also have wonderful examples of American furniture, they are not readily accessible to the public. Earl A. Powell III, director of the National Gallery, said the Kaufman donation meant the gallery would house ''one of the finest assemblages of early American furniture.''
Furniture has never been a priority for the gallery. Until now its decorative arts collection has consisted of 515 objects, whose vast majority come from the Widener family. (Peter Widener, a butcher from Philadelphia, became a multimillionaire by investing the profits from his Civil War contract to supply mutton to the Union Army, and with his wealth he collected fine furniture and art. In the early 1940s the family donated its collection to the gallery, for which his son, Joseph, was a trustee.)
So to receive the Kaufman furniture -- more than 200 objects in all -- is a bonanza. ''It gives us an opportunity to balance the scales and at a very high level,'' Mr. Powell said.
Experts in the field say the furniture alone could be worth $250 million or more.
Calling the collection ''staggering,'' John Hays, a deputy chairman of Christie's and an expert on American furniture, said it was ''a proud moment for America that such a collection would go to the nation's capital.'' The Kaufmans, he added, had supported scholarship in the field for historians and for museums.
The collection reads like a who's who of American furniture makers. There are examples by John and Thomas Seymour, John Townsend, John Goddard and Benjamin Randolph. Furniture devotees know these pieces well. They were the subject of an exhibition in 1986-87 at the gallery. Over the years the couple also lent pieces to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Philadelphia Museum of Art and the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston.
Among the collection's highlights are a Boston dressing table with japanned designs, dating to 1700-30, that is one of fewer than 40 known pieces from an unknown Boston maker; a chest-on-chest with four sculptural carved shells that was once owned by the Providence, R.I., merchant and slave trader John Brown; and an inlaid Federal sideboard made by Williams and Deming of New York for Oliver Wolcott, a signer of the Declaration of Independence.
As for the paintings, the couple started collecting Dutch old masters to complement their furniture, said Arthur K. Wheelock Jr., curator of Northern Baroque painting at the gallery. The gift includes 35 works by artists like Salomon van Ruysdael, Aelbert Cuyp, Jacob van Ruisdael and Jan van der Heyden. A majority are landscapes and cityscapes, though there is a trompe l'oeil depiction of a letter rack from 1703 by Edward Collier and ''Bearded Man With a Beret'' (around 1630), a bust by Jan Lievens. Many of these works are already in the gallery, on loan.
''While these are artists we already have,'' Mr. Wheelock said, ''This gift greatly expands our collection.''
BEAVERBROOK AUCTIONS
In September a long and expensive legal battle that was closely watched by the British and Canadian art worlds ended with an out-of-court settlement. On one side was the Beaverbrook Art Gallery, a public institution built in 1959 by the first Lord Beaverbrook. A Canadian-born press baron, he owned The London Evening Standard and The Daily Express and was a renowned collector who founded the gallery as a gift to the province where he grew up, New Brunswick.
On the other side of the dispute was the Beaverbrook Foundation, based in London. The gallery said it had title to 133 artworks, but the foundation said the art was simply on loan and ''recallable on demand,'' according to accounts of the lawsuit.
Although full details of the settlement are shrouded by a confidentiality agreement, the Beaverbrook Foundation won the title to 85 works, valued at more than $100 million, that were deemed by the court to be part of the first Lord Beaverbrook's original collection. They include works by British masters like George Stubbs, Victorian and Edwardian paintings, and works by a variety of old masters. Sotheby's confirmed that it would sell about 48 works in a series of auctions in London and New York, beginning with a sale of old master and British paintings in London on Dec. 8. The proceeds from the auctions will benefit the Beaverbrook Foundation, which supports architectural preservation, schools, the Samaritans and other causes.
By far the star of the collection is Claude-Joseph Vernet's ''Grand View of the Sea Shore Enriched With Buildings, Shipping and Figures,'' a monumental canvas from 1776 -- it measures about 5 by 9 feet -- that depicts a seascape at sunset. It will be sold in the important Jan. 27 old master painting auction in New York, where it is estimated to bring $1.5 million to $2 million.
In addition to its grand presence, the painting has unusual provenance. It was commissioned by William Petty, the second Earl of Shelburne (who later became the first Marquess of Lansdowne), after a visit to the artist's studio in 1774. The earl was well known throughout Europe and England as an important collector, and the chance to create a painting this large was a considerable challenge for Vernet, who showed it at the Salon du Louvre in Paris shortly after it was completed.
Lord Beaverbrook acquired the seascape in 1962, three years after it had been for sale at Sotheby's in London, where it was bought by Agnew, the London dealer, for $:4,000 (about $84,000, when adjusted for inflation).
George Wachter, who runs Sotheby's old master paintings department worldwide, said the Vernet ''was a killer painting.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Edward Collier's depiction of a letter rack is among the works going to the National Gallery of Art in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE M. AND LINDA H. KAUFMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (93%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FURNITURE MFG (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ART COLLECTING (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MAJOR GIFTS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); CIVIL WAR (70%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); HISTORY (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



458 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Parish Schools Pessimistic After Warning of Closings

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

 BODY:
Late into the night after learning that the Archdiocese of New York might close his 130-year-old parish school, Msgr. Howard Calkins sat at his desk in the rectory of Sacred Heart Church in Mount Vernon, making lists: Why the school should stay open; how the school could do a better job raising enrollment.
But a third list stumped him. He calculated that it would take 200 people donating $1,000 every year for 10 years to keep his school going. He came up with two or three names, then put his pen down. ''We're probably not going to make it,'' he said he told himself.
School officials and parents from Staten Island to the Catskills have been making similar calculations since Tuesday, when the Roman Catholic archdiocese announced that it would close as many as 32 schools by the end of the academic year to deal with a growing budget problem. 
Church officials offered hope that some schools could be saved if they presented a viable rescue plan before the final decision was made in January. There was talk in some parishes about starting fund-raising appeals or trying to find an ''angel,'' a deep-pocketed donor. But many Catholics seemed overwhelmed by the task at hand.
''We're going to try to raise some money, like bake sales and things, but I don't know how it's going to go with us,'' said Maggie Rivera, the mother of a fifth grader at Sacred Heart of Jesus School on West 52nd Street in Manhattan.
In round numbers, her child's school is short by the same amount as the Sacred Heart School for the Arts in Mount Vernon.
In explaining the criteria for selecting the 31 grade schools and one high school on the list of what the archdiocese called ''at risk'' schools, officials cited many considerations, including some subtle ones. Besides enrollment trends, for instance, they said they had considered the future demographic changes in certain neighborhoods, or the recruitment and fund-raising skills of some principals.
But on the matter of money they were blunt. ''These under-enrolled schools require significant financial support from the archdiocese, which cannot be sustained indefinitely,'' said Timothy J. McNiff, the archdiocese's superintendent of schools.
So as of June 2011, he said, none of the schools on the list will receive further subsidies. Any school wishing to remain in business will have to do so on its own.
For some schools, that would mean coming up with as much as $750,000 a year, archdiocesan officials said -- more than working families whose children attend schools like the two Sacred Hearts are likely to raise in bake sales.
Barbara Bortle-Gainey, president of the Staten Island Federation of Catholic School Parents, reflected the sense of resignation that several parents expressed. ''We're at a point where each school has to show that it can stand alone,'' she said. ''We need to come to terms with what's going on.''
Catholic school enrollment in New York, as well as nationwide, has fallen by more than half since its peak in the 1960s and '70s, as white Catholics left city neighborhoods.
While the New York Archdiocese has subsidized parish-based schools, and invited private donors to ''adopt'' a few dozen of them through its Patron Program, declining enrollment has touched off a downward cycle, church officials say. With each drop in enrollment, schools have been forced to raise tuition rates to compensate for lost income, which in turn has contributed to a further decline in enrollment among the low-income families who now account for most children in urban Catholic schools.
The archdiocese, which spends about $15 million on subsidies for its 216 grade schools, has shuttered dozens of schools in the past 20 years. But the current proposed round of closings would be the single largest in its history.
And while a few schools marked for closing have won reprieves in years past, school officials and parents said a combination of the bad economy and Archbishop Timothy M. Dolan's oft-repeated resolve to ''take stewardship of our finances, properties and buildings very seriously,'' as he phrased it last week in the archdiocese's newspaper, made the chances slimmer this time.
Separate from the closings, archdiocesan officials say they are developing a new way of financing the schools that remain. Instead of being mainly dependent on their home parish, those schools will be financed by clusters of parishes, or by the archdiocese at large. But until there is a self-sustaining model for Catholic elementary schools, officials said, many children will probably be forced to leap from one dismantled school to the next.
''We were in a school in the Bronx that closed, so we enrolled him here thinking it would be safe,'' said David Bollettieri, a butcher shop manager, whose son, Matthew, 9, is a fourth grader at Manhattan's Sacred Heart School. ''Now he's losing another set of friends.''
At St. Martin of Tours School in the Bronx, another school on the ''at risk'' list, enrollment has fallen so sharply in recent years that some classes have as few as six or seven students, said the Rev. John Flynn, a priest there.
Once a sanctuary of order and discipline for children growing up in a neighborhood known during the 1970s as Fort Apache, St. Martin of Tours has been threatened with closing a couple of times in the past, but always managed to receive another chance.
One big difference now, Father Flynn said, is the new reality of charter schools, five or six of which have opened in the last few years within a few miles of St. Martin. ''Many of our kids were coming here because it was safe, we were keeping them out of the gangs, and we gave them a decent education,'' he said. ''Now, their parents figure they can get the same thing in a charter school -- and it's free.''
Like dozens of other priests, principals and parent representatives, Father Flynn has asked for an appointment with Archbishop Dolan to appeal the latest effort to close his school.
He said he had a plan he hoped the archbishop would like. But he admitted that this time, ''It's going to be tough.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 17, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article in some editions on Friday about pessimism among school officials and parents after the archdiocese of New York announced that it might close as many as 32 schools referred imprecisely to the Rev. John Flynn's association with one of the schools, St. Martin of Tours School in the Bronx. While he is a priest at the school, he is not its pastor.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sacred Heart of Jesus School in Manhattan is among 32 schools in the Archdiocese of New York system threatened with closing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BENJAMIN NORMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); MOUNTAINS (77%); FAMILY (76%); TRENDS (75%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); BUDGETS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (56%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



459 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Shooting to Top The Charts Again

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GOLDFARB and MARTIN HUTCHINSON

 BODY:
J. Christopher Flowers could turn out to be the Falco of private equity. For now, the former Goldman Sachs banker can claim the investment equivalent of the Austrian pop star's only U.S. smash, ''Rock Me Amadeus,'' in 1986. Mr. Flowers is cutting new deals with a different groove to escape the dreaded one-hit wonder status. But it won't be easy.
His first big bet, in Japan's Shinsei Bank, made him a billionaire. But he followed it up with huge, cringe-worthy acquisitions of Hypo Real Estate and HSH Nordbank in Germany and the Dutch NIBC, deals that either have been wiped out or are limping. Even an attempted remix, a return to Shinsei, has struggled. 
Given that Mr. Flowers focuses exclusively on the financial sector, it may surprise some even to learn he's still dancing. Then again, investors might have expected that if anyone should have had a sense of a storm brewing, it was Mr. Flowers.
His firm is singing a slightly different tune. Hypo, like so many other banks, became a victim of the wholesale funding market. So Mr. Flowers has turned his attention to safer-style institutions like Spanish savings banks, British building societies and American thrifts. These are also considerably smaller transactions, partly a reflection that his latest $2.3 billion fund is a third as big as his last.
These deals look risky. His plan to buy a 450 million euro convertible bond in Spain's Banca Civica, introduced hours before it failed European stress tests, remains in limbo and subject to the quirky politics of Spanish savings banks. The same holds true of a $:50 million ($68.8 million) plan to invest in Kent Reliance Building Society. It's also hard to see how a small lender in New Jersey, his latest acquisition, will help Mr. Flowers scale the private equity charts.
Mr. Flowers may have fortified his ranks with industry veterans, including onetime chiefs of Westpac and Goldman. And for now he can point to a 25 percent internal rate of return, including the Hypo washout. But Mr. Flowers still has a lot of work ahead to avoid becoming a financial casualty of the crisis himself.
Progress in Peru
Peru is a worthy borrower of very long-term debt. While poorer than Mexico or Goldman Sachs -- two others recently in the market with long-dated bond issues -- the Andean nation's economy is more balanced, it has less debt and its growth prospects look bright. Global mining companies already take the country seriously; its successful $2.5 billion financing this week suggests debt investors are doing so, too.
Mexico recently sold 100-year debt at a 6.1 percent yield, while Goldman sold 50-year paper at 6.125 percent. In its fund-raising, Peru's long-term slug had a maturity of ''only'' 40 years, but it is still notable that the $1 billion issue sold at a lower yield than that paid by Mexico or Goldman -- 5.875 percent.
At first sight that seems irrational. Peru's gross domestic product was just $127 billion in 2009, according to the World Bank, one-eighth of Mexico's, and is significantly poorer on a per capita basis, too. As a company Goldman isn't directly comparable, but for illustration its $45 billion in revenue for 2009 translates into an amount per employee that dwarfs either South American economy. The investment bank's credit ratings also trump those of Mexico and Peru.
But Peru enjoys rapid growth and a balance-of-payments surplus, with a broad range of natural resources and agricultural products in high demand. Government spending surged to fight the 2009 downturn but remains below 20 percent of G.D.P.
Encouragingly, Peru's finance minister, Ismael Benavides, promised greater prudence after taking office in September. With all but one of the candidates for next April's presidential election generally committed to free markets, the electorate can choose from several plausible alternatives. Peru's government debt also stands at about 25 percent of GDP, against nearly 40 percent for Mexico.
Mexico continues to run current account and budget deficits, while its major natural resource, oil, is controlled by an unreliable public sector fiefdom. It also comes with considerable political risk, as antimarket candidates are strong contenders in elections in 2012.
As for Goldman, it is profitable and committed to free markets. But it has no natural resources and depends on a business model that stresses short-term profits. An investment here, too, carries an element of political risk. Bond buyers are rightly taking notice of Peru's quiet progress.
JEFFREY GOLDFARB and MARTIN HUTCHINSON

CORRECTION-DATE: November 19, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, the Reuters Breakingviews column last Friday, about the deal-making of the private equity investor J. Christopher Flowers misstated the release date of ''Rock Me Amadeus,'' the only major hit in the United States by the pop star Falco, to whom Mr. Flowers was compared as a one-hit wonder. It was 1986, not 1980.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: J. Christopher Flowers hasn't matched his success with Shinsei Bank of Japan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POP & ROCK (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (89%); BONDS (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); BOND ISSUES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); FUNDRAISING (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); MINES & MINING (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); KENT RELIANCE BUILDING SOCIETY (65%); SHINSEI BANK LTD (57%); HSH NORDBANK AG (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); 8303 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (65%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (57%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) JAPAN (93%); PERU (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2010



460 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 6052 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Art
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.
Museums
American Folk Art Museum: 'Eugene Von Bruenchenhein: 'Freelance Artist -- Poet and Sculptor -- Inovator -- Arrow maker and Plant man -- Bone artifacts constructor -- Photographer and Architect -- Philosopher,' through Oct. 9. Whether photographing his wife as a sweetly chaste pinup girl; fashioning plant forms from scrounged clay or little thrones from salvaged turkey bones; making delicate ballpoint-pen drawings or hallucinatory paintings rife with intimations of exotic undersea or sci-fi worlds, this self-taught, self-proclaimed multitasker (as quoted in the show's subtitle) never wavered in his sense of his own greatness. Mounted 27 years after his death, the first American museum survey doesn't quite do him justice and especially shortchanges the paintings, but it presents the fruits of his ceaseless labors with a clarity that makes them feel of a piece, and like a gift. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith)20101111 
- Asia Society Museum: 'Yoshitomo Nara: Nobody's Fool,' through Jan. 2. This Japanese artist, known for paintings and sculptures of big-eyed toddlers and friendly dogs redolent of children's books, makes over the entire museum into a homey, deceptively beguiling blend of art, life, music and make-believe that includes a wonderland of wood-scrap passages, rooms, houses and clapboard walls. But the inspirations for the raw emotions of childhood here range from punk rock to Thoreau. Take the under-10 set; don't be surprised if the kids get ideas. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street , (212) 327-9271, asiasociety.org. (Smith)20101111
Brooklyn Museum: Fred Tomaselli, through Jan. 2. Mr. Tomaselli became known in the 1990s for paintings in which pills of all sorts, including psychedelics, aspirin, anti-depressants and other prescription medications, as well as marijuana leaves and images clipped from books and magazines, were arranged into compositions of dazzling, hallucinogenic complexity and sealed under glossy, transparent coats of plastic resin. This beautifully organized, two-decade retrospective does full justice to his mind-expanding art. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson)20101111
Brooklyn Museum: 'Seductive Subversion: Women Pop Artists, 1958-1968,' through Jan. 9. Why have there been no great female Pop artists? That's the question we are invited to ask by this entertaining hodgepodge of paintings and sculptures by two dozen women who trafficked in mass culture imagery and styles but were overshadowed by the kings of Pop in the 1960s. Though it includes smart and cool works by Rosalyn Drexler, Idelle Weber, Chryssa, Vija Celmins and Kay Kurt, the show won't overturn standard histories of an era that refused to take female artists seriously. But it infectiously evokes a mood of exuberant creative optimism that affected countless artists, men as well as women. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Johnson)20101111
Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum: 'National Design Triennial: Why Design Now?,' through Jan. 9. The fourth edition of this triennial is the largest yet and the most international in its reach. It is also, hands down, the most ecology-conscious. Design as defined here isn't about how to make the House Beautiful more beautiful, but about how to keep the globe afloat and give all its occupants access to a healthy patch of it. Reduce, reuse, recycle are the imperatives embodied in the work, which includes a hand-cranked grain thresher made from repurposed materials, a light bulb fueled by dirt, and digital images of a new all-green, no-car city to be built in the desert outside Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. The architectural projects included are particularly impressive, and if not every idea in the show is strong, many are already generating winds of change. 2 East 91st Street , (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Holland Cotter)20101111
Frick Collection: 'The Spanish Manner: Drawings From Ribera to Goya,' through Jan. 9. This special exhibition in the Frick's lower-level galleries includes diverting studies and sketches by Jusepe de Ribera, Bartolome Esteban Murillo and others, followed by a scintillating room of 23 drawings by Goya. The works, among them naturalistic figure studies, anguished martyrdom scenes and mischievous grotesques, are drawn largely from New York-area institutions. 1 East 70th Street , (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Karen Rosenberg)20101111
- Guggenheim Museum: 'Chaos and Classicism: Art in France, Italy, and Germany, 1918-1936,' through Jan. 9. This unusually probing, incisive and dramatic big exhibition traces the retreat to Classical themes in modern art between World War I and World War II by artists like Picasso and Leger to others, now little-known, favored by Hitler and Mussolini. With its intense fusion of art and politics, the result is totally engrossing: a survey-style piece of investigative history with a bomb ticking away inside. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street , (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Cotter)20101111
- International Center of Photography: 'The Mexican Suitcase,' through Jan. 9. In 1939, at the start of World War II, the photographer Robert Capa fled Paris. Before leaving, he packed up some 4,500 negatives and gave them to a friend to forward to him in New York. The negatives were almost all for images of the Spanish Civil War taken by Capa; David Seymour, also known as Chim; and by Gerda Taro, who had died in action two years before. The negatives, which finally arrived in New York in 2007 after a mysterious journey, are the subject of a fascinating show that rewards the close looking it requires. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, www.icp.org. (Cotter)20101111
Jewish Museum: 'Shifting the Gaze: Painting and Feminism,' through Jan. 30. This smart, surprising look at the women's art movement as it played out in painting begins with a studious but assertive self-portrait by a young Lee Krasner and ends with Nicole Eisenman's new canvas ''Seder,'' a distinctly nontraditional depiction of that festival meal. In between are plenty of other works that grapple with feminism and Judaism, often simultaneously. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street , (212) 423-3200, jewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20101111
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Between Here and There: Passages in Contemporary Photography,' through Feb. 13. This lively little collection show gathers photographs and videos about travel of one kind or another. The trip might be Ed Ruscha's drive down the Sunset Strip, Doug Aitken's airplane flight, Richard Long's walk through the British countryside or Bruce Nauman's jerky, robotic march across the floor of his studio. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20101111
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Celebration: The Birthday in Chinese Art,' through Nov. 28. In China, birthdays are many-happy-returns-of-the-day affairs. You want to make merry, but mainly you want to live long, and the Ming and Qing dynasty objects in this show, with their symbols of immortality, reflect that sentiment. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)20101111
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'John Baldessari: Pure Beauty,' through Jan. 9. With this full-dress, lucidly installed retrospective of a prime mover -- and jokester -- in the Conceptual Art revolution, the Metropolitan Museum of Art may finally be catching up to the 21st century. And Mr. Baldessari's achievement expands as well, given the gallery of his little-known early Pop paintings and the often imposing large photo pieces toward the end. Saved from its own rigors by a love of color and a passion for film, or at least the film still of obscure B movies, it forms a remarkable line from the Pop 1960s to the appropriation-art '80s. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20101111
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Katrin Sigurdardottir at the Met,' through March 6. This Icelandic New Yorker has created a pair of fanciful, quasi-architectural constructions inspired by two of the museum's French neo-Classical period rooms. Ms. Sigurdardottir's versions are all-white abstractions of their models, made with exacting craft but with simplified details. One with skewed windows and doors in a descending spiral of abutted panels could be a Modernist set for ''Alice in Wonderland.'' At 85 percent life-size, the other, an octagonal interior viewable only through one-way mirrors, has a magical, otherworldly glow. (212) 535-7710, met.org. (Johnson)20101111
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Man, Myth, and Sensual Pleasure: Jan Gossart's Renaissance,' through Jan. 17. Do not miss the first -- and superb -- American exhibition devoted to the Flemish artist Jan Gossart, also known as Mabuse, which contains 50 of his 63 surviving paintings and 35 drawings, as well as some 40 works by his predecessors (including Jan van Eyck), contemporaries (Albrecht Durer) and a follower or two. You'll see the history of Northern European art nearly turn on a dime, from Gothic (both High and Mannered) to the Italian Renaissance's special blend of fleshy and mythological knowledge that Gossart extracted from the recently unearthed Greco-Roman sculptures he saw on an early, crucial visit to Rome. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20101111
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Masterpieces of French Art Deco,' continuing. The largest exhibition of works from the Met's extensive holdings in French Art Deco fills a large gallery to overflowing with nearly 150 examples of art, furniture, wallpaper, decorative objects and the odd painting. Far more aristocratic than its American counterpart, French Deco devoted exquisite craftsmanship, opulent materials and historicizing design to the creation of one-of-a-kind luxury items. The desks and cabinets of the incomparable Jacques-Emile Ruhlmann quietly dominate, along with vases by Jacques Dunand and silver by Jean Puiforcat. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20101111
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Miro: The Dutch Interiors,' through Jan. 17. Ever the contrarian, the Catalan painter Joan Miro rebelled by turning to the old masters. And not just any old masters: he started with the homely genre scenes of Jan Steen and Hendrick Sorgh, with their stock characters of misbehaving maids, soused guests and impish children. In this intimate show, which originated at the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam, you can compare Miro's unmoored and ambiguous versions of several Dutch paintings with the originals. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20101111
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Sounding the Pacific: Musical Instruments of Oceania,' through Jan. 23. This fascinating survey of aural sculpture covers the waterfront from a 19th-century Hawaiian ukulele to a tree-size slit-gong from Papua New Guinea. An Indonesian zither, with a delicate, balloonlike resonator of bent palm leaves, looks ethereal enough to drift away on a breeze and was used to accompany fatalistic songs that depict life as baffling and brief. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)20101111
- Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The World of Khubilai Khan: Chinese Art in the Yuan Dynasty,' through Jan. 2. The Yuan dynasty was established in the 13th century by Mongol invaders in China. No clear profile of their rule coheres in this big, understated show, but there are many fascinating objects to ponder. A much clearer picture of China's cultural response to the Mongol presence can be found in a concurrent Met exhibition (through Jan. 9), ''The Yuan Revolution: Art and Dynastic Change,'' drawn from the museum's permanent collection. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)20101111
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Tibetan Arms and Armor From the Permanent Collection,' through fall 2011. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Met's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Later Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, created this follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including five acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense; examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20101111
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Young Archer,' continuing. This life-size marble carving, of a naked boy drawing an arrow from his quiver, which is in the shape of a lion's paw, might be the earliest known sculpture by Michelangelo. Scholars disagree. On a 10-year loan from France, the legless, armless boy with a yearning expression is in the Met's bright and airy Velez Blanco Patio, where viewers may decide for themselves if it is the real thing. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20101111
- Morgan Library & Museum: 'Roy Lichtenstein: The Black-and-White Drawings, 1961-1968,' through Jan. 2. This brilliant show zeroes in on the large finished drawings that brought Lichtenstein's bold Pop Art style to full flower. It counters the notion of his anonymous touch by stressing an egalitarian mix of commercial and fine art techniques (and displaying his drawing tools). The works are free of virtuosic refinement but full of striking contrasts -- the chiseled density of graphite versus the porosity of soft-edged Benday dots and frottage, for example. Formal and physical resonance keeps pace with the pop-cultural kind, which is no mean feat. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street , (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Smith)20101111
- Morgan Library & Museum: 'Degas: Drawings and Sketchbooks,' through Jan. 23. Edgar Degas was the last major artist in a line going back to Giotto to make exacting delineation of the real world a central drive. But in his acute attention to empirical experience, stripped bare of myth, historicism and moralizing, he also was a quintessentially modern man. His suave blend of old and new is beautifully sampled in this show of 20 choice drawings and two sketchbooks. Including self-portraits, ballerinas, racehorses and a study for the cringing woman in his most mysterious painting -- ''The Interior'' (1868-69) -- it should be required viewing for Degas fans. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street , (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Johnson)20101111
- Museum of Modern Art: 'Abstract Expressionist New York: Ideas Not Theories,' through Feb. 28. This exhibition, one of two smaller shows inspired by the Modern's Abstract Expressionist extravaganza, delves into the movement's legendary intellectual forum, the Club, with a cornucopia of prints, drawings, small paintings and oddities like a rug by John Ferren and a mosaic by Jeanne Reynal, the early abstract films of Len Lye and architectural projects by R. Buckminster Fuller and Oscar Niemeyer. The prevalence of lively contextualizing material and sense of MoMA's incalculably rich holdings impress, although the very premise reinforces the members-only ambience of the larger show. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20101111
- Museum of Modern Art: 'Abstract Expressionist New York: Rock Paper Scissors,' through Feb. 28. The second accompaniment to MoMA's Abstract Expressionist show examines the objects of 10 sculptors supplemented by prints and other works on, or of, paper. Forgotten names include David Hare, Dorothy Dehner and Seymour Lipton. Other artists are in the main (David Smith, Louise Nevelson) or should have been (Louise Bourgeois, Isamu Noguchi). A prevailing period look suggests that much of the material is of historical interest. But don't miss Stanley William Hayter's 1940 plaster ''Hand Sculpture,'' whose squeezed undulations presage the directness of drip painting. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20101111
- Museum of Modern Art: 'Abstract Expressionist New York: The Big Picture,' through April 25. More generous retrenchment than expansive revision, this landmark show culls some 100 paintings, and related sculptures, prints, drawings and photographs, from the unrivaled permanent collection. Yes, a shortage of works by lesser-known artists makes it all a little too MoMA-as-usual, despite the presence of works unseen for decades. But there is something for everyone -- whether the eerily abstract photographs of Aaron Siskind, the immersive gallery of Mark Rothko's radiant canvases or the no-holds-barred ambition of Jackson Pollock, at full tilt in the show's astounding first gallery. The total illuminates, thrills and provides much useful grist -- both artistic and museological -- for the art-world mill. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20101111
- Museum of Modern Art: 'Counter Space: Design and the Modern Kitchen,' through March 14. Sometimes a kitchen is just a kitchen, but not often. This elaborate show, which draws from every department in the museum and includes some 300 design objects, examines the kitchen's complex role in everyday life (and lifestyle), product development, advertising, sexual stereotyping, at least two war efforts, contemporary art and, throughout, in the evolution of design itself. The centerpiece is a rare, nearly complete example of the cockpitlike, mass-produced Frankfurt Kitchen from 1926-27, an exemplar of the modern spirit that still looks invitingly usable. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20101111
Museum of Modern Art: 'New Photography 2010: Roe Ethridge, Elad Lassry, Alex Prager and Amanda Ross-Ho,' through Jan. 10. The four artists in this stimulating 25th-anniversary edition of the New Photography series move freely among art photography, film and editorial work. Roe Ethridge, Elad Lassry, Alex Prager and Amanda Ross-Ho appropriate images from movies and magazines, with varying degrees of distance and criticism. The installation combines photography, 16-millimeter film and sculpture, often seamlessly. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)20101111
- Museum of Modern Art: 'Pictures by Women: A History of Modern Photography,' through April 4. MoMA's photography collection is sufficiently strong in work by women that this show comes close to meeting the promise of its title. The span of 200 works by 120 artists starts around 1850 and comes up to the present, and it is packed with fantastic things. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)20101111
- Museum of Modern Art: 'Project 93: Dinh Q. Le,' through Jan. 24. The centerpiece of this moving solo show is a video about the war in Vietnam composed of documentary footage, Hollywood action film clips and contemporary interviews. In the interviews older people recall the terror created by helicopters sweeping down from the sky, but two younger men speak of their recent efforts to build helicopters that, while based on wartime models, are meant for use in farming. The small exhibition, by an artist born in Vietnam, is a swords-into-ploughshares show, with one handmade helicopter, constructed from scraps but neat as a pin, in the gallery. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)20101111
Museum of the City of New York: 'Notorious & Notable: 20th-Century Women of Style,' through Jan. 2. This sweeping, three-dimensional best-dressed list pays homage to fashionable women from the wives of robber barons to modern business executives. Their outfits, from the museum's costume and textile collection, are arranged by color on either side of a long aisle. There's jewelry, too, coaxed from private collections with the help of the National Jewelry Institute. Everything looks spectacular, though the show isn't quite as plugged in to contemporary ideas of celebrity as its title would suggest. Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street , (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. (Rosenberg)20101111
Neue Galerie: 'Franz Xaver Messerschmidt 1736-1783: From Neoclassicism to Expressionism,' through Jan. 10. In the annals of creativity and craziness, Messerschmidt holds a secure place with his series of metal and alabaster heads, some of them self-portraits, depicting extremes of human emotion, from hilarity to terror. Several examples of these ''character heads'' have been assembled for this small but potent retrospective, which also includes the artist's commissioned portraits of Central European aristocrats and Enlightenment-era intellectuals. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street , (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Cotter)20101111
New Museum: 'Free,' through Jan. 23. This group show exploring the Internet as a public art space includes plenty of engaging off-line works: sculptures that use objects found on eBay, or collages of Web-based imagery, for instance. But the art doesn't always rise to the level of the dialogue, which is heavily influenced by Lawrence Lessig's book ''Free Culture'' and the artist Seth Price's essay ''Dispersion.'' 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side , (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20101111
New Museum: 'The Last Newspaper,' through Jan. 9. Despite its dramatic title, this visually austere show is far less about the death of print journalism than about how that medium has been recycled and repurposed in contemporary art going back 40 years. As if a vote of confidence in print's future, two newspapers are being produced in the galleries during the run of the exhibition. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side , (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Cotter)20101111
Onassis Cultural Center: 'Heroes: Mortals and Myths in Ancient Greece,' through Jan. 3. This touring exhibition, organized by the Walters Art Museum in Baltimore, offers an unusually down-to-earth look at some major figures from myths and epics. It features about 90 objects from the Archaic, Classical and Hellenistic periods (the sixth through the first centuries B.C.), many of which come from major museums across North America and Europe. 645 Fifth Avenue, near 52nd Street , (212) 486-4448, onassisusa.org. (Rosenberg)20101111
Rubin Museum of Art: 'Grain of Emptiness: Buddhism-Inspired Contemporary Art,' through April 11. This show explores Buddhist influence on contemporary art via an eclectic, not-the-usual-suspects group of five artists: Sanford Biggers, Theaster Gates, Atta Kim, Wolfgang Laib and Charmion von Wiegand. Only one of them considers herself Buddhist (and at least one isn't really contemporary), but all lean heavily on the religion's symbols, tenets and rituals. Their works are interspersed with centuries-old examples of Himalayan art from the museum's collection. 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org. (Rosenberg)20101111
Smithsonian National Museum of the American Indian: 'A Song for the Horse Nation,' through July 7. Including saddles, riding blankets, clothing, beaded bags and much more, this exhibition brings to light a fascinating and ultimately sad chapter in American history: the hundred-year period during which horses were central to the lives of the Plains Indians. A highly efficient form of transportation, horses enabled Navajo, Crow, Comanche, Pawnee and others to expand their territories and flourish more than they otherwise would have. It also enabled them to make war more effectively, though ultimately not effectively enough. George Gustav Heye Center, 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan , (212) 514-3700, americanindian.si.edu. (Johnson)20101111
Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Collecting Biennials,' through Nov. 28. This permanent-collection show has works by artists who were in past Whitney Annuals and Biennials. It caps an extravaganza of new art with a humbling and diverting mix of classics, oldies and one-hit wonders. Figurative paintings from the 1950s Annuals are paired with contemporaneous Abstract Expressionism, and some big names from the 1980s (Schnabel, Condo) look refreshed. Most eye-opening is the sense that some of the most influential artists (Warhol, Hammons) barely register on the Biennial scorecard. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)20101111
- Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Modern Life: Edward Hopper and His Time,' through April 10. Mixing and matching 32 of Hopper's paintings and works on paper with the efforts of nearly 30 artists and photographers whose lives overlapped with his, this is more of a hanging from the permanent collection than it is an exhibition. Friends and mentors like John Sloan, Guy Pene du Bois and Charles Burchfield are emphasized, and some must-see Hoppers from nearby museums beef things up. The ensemble may not get to the heart of Hopper's sublimely unreal realism, but it outlines the profound, still under-appreciated vastness of his seemingly single-minded art. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith)20101111
- Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Paul Thek: Diver, A Retrospective,' through Jan. 9. Paul Thek, the subject of this ragged, moving and much-anticipated retrospective, was a star in Europe in the 1960s and '70s but had slipped through the cracks of art history by the 1980s, when he died of AIDS in his native New York City. Now his reputation is high among young artists internationally, and the Whitney has made a valiant effort to restore to view a sense of his varied, provoking, poetic and largely ephemeral work. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)20101111
Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Lee Friedlander: America by Car,' through Nov. 28. The black-and-white, square-format photographs in this exhibition were taken from the interior of standard rental cars on road trips over the past 15 years. In these pictures -- nearly 200 in all, in Mr. Friedlander's characteristically dense installation at the Whitney -- our vast, diverse country is buffered by molded plastic dashboards and miniaturized in side-view mirrors. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)20101111
Galleries: Uptown
- 'Body and Soul: Masterpieces of Italian Renaissance and Baroque Sculpture,' through Nov. 19. Museum-quality works and an emphasis on terra cotta make the past excitingly present here. The head of a gorgon newly attributed to Andrea del Verrocchio, the 15th-century Florentine sculptor, goldsmith and painter whose apprentices included Leonardo da Vinci, has an unnerving emotional realism. Equally gripping is the stylistic face-off between Jacopo Sansovino's ''Charity,'' a rippling Raphaelesque figure group made in Rome around 1513, and Andrea Riccio's fabulously restrained ''Madonna Dolorosa,'' made in Padua just a few years earlier. It's the southern versus the northern Italian Renaissance in three dimensions -- and a win-win revelation for the viewer. Moretti Fine Art and Adam Williams Fine Art, 24 East 80th Street , (212) 249-4987, andrewbutterfield.com. (Smith)20101111
Jeff Koons: 'Made in Heaven Paintings,' through Jan. 21. Whether taken as bad art, nonart or a crucial nadir in the career of an often brilliant mega-artist, painting is too strong a word for these inkjet monstrosities on canvas from 1990-91. Depicting Mr. Koons ghoulishly miming various sex acts with his then-wife, the Italian porn star and politician Ilona Staller, a k a Cicciolina, they are thoroughly repellent as both art objects and images -- all the more for being confined to the small boudoirlike spaces of a swank town house gallery. Yet Mr. Koons clearly had to do them and has been the better, more accessible artist for them. Self-debasement works in mysterious ways. Luxembourg & Dayan, 64 East 77th Street , (212) 452-4646, luxembourgdayan.com. (Smith)20101111
Galleries: Other
James Franco: 'The Dangerous Book Four Boys,' through Dec. 1. The determined multitasking of this famous actor has raised skeptical and envious eyebrows, but Mr. Franco's first New York exhibition has its moments. The sculpture, installation pieces and drawings rely on received ideas, and the single-action short videos don't get much beyond Process Art 101, despite the technical finesse. But when he works at an arty tangent to conventional film narratives, as in ''Bill and Tenn'' and ''Masculinity & Me'' especially, a genuinely personal sense of style, texture and emotional tone emerges. Clocktower Gallery, Art International Radio, 108 Leonard Street, 13th floor, Lower Manhattan , (212) 233-1096, artonair.org. (Smith)20101111
'Kunstlerplakate: Artists' Posters from East Germany, 1967-1990,' through Dec. 4. Before the Berlin Wall fell, Socialist Realism was the officially preferred style in art on the east side. But as this show of 120 posters promoting art exhibitions, print fairs and related events demonstrates, East German artists often worked in more personal styles, expressing dissent in subtle ways. Focusing mainly on the 1980s, when government censorship was loosening, the silk screens, lithographs and etchings in the show tend toward neo-Expressionist style and symbolically obscure imagery. Though not terrifically arousing visually, for students of prelapsarian East Germany it offers a gold mine of historical information. Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East , (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart. (Johnson)20101111
Out of Town
- African Art Museum of the SMA Fathers: 'Permanent Collection, Part I,' through Jan. 31. If you're looking for some visual magic -- a Yoruba dance mask with a mini-zoo on top; a brocaded body wrap from Ivory Coast that seems to float on air; a 10-foot-high figure of the 1960s Malian soccer hero Salif Keita -- this small, unorthodox museum in a stained-glass-windowed hall beside a church, on the residential campus of a Roman Catholic missionary order in a leafy New Jersey suburb, is for you. 23 Bliss Avenue, Tenafly, N.J. , (201) 894-8611, smafathers.org/museum. (Cotter)20101111
Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum: 'Rackstraw Downes: Under the West Side Highway,' through Jan. 2. This exhibition focuses on the creation of one work by a painter of exceptionally vivid, anti-picturesque scenes in and around New York City. Mr. Downes executed the work, a three-panel, panoramic view from under the West Side Highway at 145th Street, on the spot over a 15-month period ending in 2009. Dozens of drawings and diary entries in notebooks shed light on this painter's process. 258 Main Street, Ridgefield, Conn. , (203) 438-4519, aldrichart.org. (Johnson)20101111
- Anacostia Community Museum: 'Word, Shout, Song: Lorenzo Dow Turner, Connecting Communities Through Language,' through March 27. Housed in a converted movie theater in a predominantly African-American neighborhood that is a cab ride's distance from the National Mall, the Anacostia Community Museum is one of Washington's cultural secrets. Its current exhibition on the scholar Lorenzo Dow Turner (1890-1972), who documented surviving traces of African languages and customs in modern African-American culture, is both an archival homage and a well-paced drama of ideas. Smithsonian Institution, 1901 Fort Place SE, Washington , (202) 633-4820, anacostia.si.edu. (Cotter)20101111
- 'Gods of Angkor: Bronzes From the National Museum of Cambodia,' through Jan. 23. The 36 metal sculptures in this show are all from the National Museum of Cambodia in Phnom Penh, where the Sackler recently helped establish a metals conservation laboratory. Some of the Hindu and Buddhist sculptures in this compact have been beneficiaries of restorative treatment; all are resplendent examples of one of the great art traditions of Asia. Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, Smithsonian Institution, 1050 Independence Avenue SW, Washington , (202) 633-1000, asia.si.edu. (Cotter)20101111
Hessel Museum of Art: 'At Home/Not at Home: Works From the Collection of Martin and Rebecca Eisenberg,' through Dec. 19. The handmade art object -- and generally art as something to be lived with every day -- finds a strong advocate in this exhibition of 150 paintings, sculptures, photographs and derivatives or hybrids, mostly from the last decade. David Hammons, Mary Heilmann, Cindy Sherman, Richard Tuttle, Rirkrit Tiravanija, Martin Creed and Philippe Parreno serve as eminences grises to fivescore younger artists of wildly divergent sensibilities. Matthew Higgs, director of the Manhattan alternate space White Columns, chose the works and expertly corralled them in related clusters, where they talk vociferously among themselves. Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y. , (845) 758-7598, bard.edu. (Smith)20101111
- High Museum of Art: 'Dali: The Late Work,' through Jan. 9. The belief that late Dali is bad Dali, and most Dali is late, is once more disproved -- this time by a sprawling show that will not travel. It affirms that Salvador Dali was some kind of genius with supernal depictive skills and a desperate need to be current, which made him a precursor of Pop, Performance and Pictures art. His self-degrading hucksterism is evident here, along with his willingness to try anything, be it jewelry or holograms. But he is at his feverish best in his paintings, which encompass his faith in God and science, his rivalry with Abstract Expressionism and his determination to modernize Renaissance space. The show is well worth the trip to Atlanta. 1280 Peachtree Street, N.E., Atlanta , (404) 733-4444, high.org. (Smith)20101111
Last Chance
Matt Magee: 'New Paintings'; closes on Saturday. Ellsworth Kelly, Victor Vasarely, Myron Stout, Agnes Martin, the comics, textile design and bar codes -- and Richard Pettibone's miniature re-dos of blue-chip art -- seem to be among the inspirations and precedents deftly fused in these loquacious, worldly oil-on-panel abstractions. Quietly lush surfaces, reverberant titles and pristine colors that are rarely used more than two at a time (except on paper) enable Mr. Magee's efforts to hold their own against the teeming image-bank of high and low abstraction that he samples so judiciously and variously. Knoedler Project Space, 19 East 70th Street , (212) 794-0550, knoedlergallery.com/project--space. (Smith)20101111
- Gerhard Richter: 'Lines Which Do Not Exist'; closes on Thursday. This small, beautifully proportioned five-decade survey of drawings by Mr. Richter is, without even trying to be, an event; it's his first career overview in the United States since his much-praised ''40 Years of Painting'' at the Museum of Modern Art in 2002. The show presents seldom-exhibited work, most of it abstract, in a medium that would seem a natural adjunct to Mr. Richter's paintings and that contributes to his reputation for enigmatic virtuosity. Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street, SoHo , (212) 219-2166, drawingcenter.org. (Cotter)20101111
Roman Signer: 'Four Rooms, One Artist'; closes on Saturday. The Swiss artist Roman Signer calls himself a tinkerer, but mad scientist might be a more appropriate description. Mr. Wizard meets Fischli and Weiss in the this Swiss Institute exhibition, which samples Mr. Signer's performative action sculptures. In one gallery, oscillating fans move table-tennis balls around the strings of an open grand piano; others display films of outdoor experiments with hydraulics, gravity and wind. Swiss Institute, 495 Broadway, between Spring and Broome Streets, SoHo , (212) 925-2035, swissinstitute.net. (Rosenberg)20101111
C. K. Wilde: 'Tender'; closing on Saturday. The gimmick of making collages from paper currency is for the most part transcended here, with works involving the often radiant, maniacally engraved legal tender of some 40 countries, not all of which still exist. Appropriately, the imagery often touches on economics, history and politics. High points include two beautiful re-dos from Goya's ''Disasters of War.'' The collages pay tribute to the amazing color and fastidious craftsmanship typically expended on the printing of money, while repurposing them to brilliant effect. Pavel Zoubok Gallery, 533 West 23rd Street, Chelsea , (212) 675-7490, pavelzoubok.com. (Smith)20101111

CORRECTION-DATE: November 16, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An art entry in the Listings pages on Friday about ''The Mexican Suitcase'' exhibition at the International Center of Photography, at the Avenue of the Americas and West 43rd Street in Manhattan, misstated the center's telephone number for information. It is (212) 857-0000. (The error has appeared in the Listings pages each Friday since Oct. 1.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'MODERN LIFE: EDWARD HOPPER AND HIS TIME,' through April 10. Mixing and matching 32 of Hopper's paintings and works on paper with the efforts of nearly 30 artists and photographers whose lives overlapped with his, this is more of a hanging from the permanent collection than it is an exhibition. Friends and mentors like John Sloan, Guy Pene du Bois and Charles Burchfield are emphasized, and some must-see Hoppers from nearby museums beef things up. The ensemble may not get to the heart of Hopper's sublimely unreal realism, but it outlines the profound, still underappreciated vastness of his seemingly single-minded art. Above: Hopper's ''New York Interior,'' about 1921. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Roberta Smith) (PHOTOGRAPH BY HEIRS OF JOSEPHINE N. HOPPER, WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); SCULPTURE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PAINTING (90%); CHILDREN (86%); PHOTOGRAPHY (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (77%); DOGS (73%); WRITERS (72%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (70%); POP & ROCK (69%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (69%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (66%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (61%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (61%); CANNABIS (60%); RESINS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2010



461 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1614 words

HEADLINE: Looking for a Fair Fight

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON

 BODY:
CLIFTON, N.J. -- The fans in the home-team rooting section were stunned when visiting Don Bosco Prep called a timeout with about two minutes left in the first half in an attempt to regain possession of the football.
Their version of ''Friday Night Lights'' was devolving into Friday Night Spite, a rerun of the 71-0 shellacking they had witnessed the year before. And when Bosco quarterback Gary Nova hit a receiver over the middle, in full stride, for an 80-yard touchdown with no time on the clock, the Clifton High School fans responded in full-throated frustration.
The booing started. Someone yelled, ''Bush league.'' Another fan sarcastically encouraged Bosco to go for a 2-point conversion.
Instead, Bosco kicked the extra point and settled for a 48-0 halftime lead. 
''My kid is a senior, and this could be his last home game,'' said Tom Trommelen, whose son of the same name is a two-way Clifton lineman and a captain. ''It's sad to watch this. I absolutely think we shouldn't be playing this team, and I don't understand what their kids are supposed to get from it, either.''
The routine blowout was played at the intersection of contrasting scholastic sports values and capabilities, a head-on collision between private ambition and public reality.
The public versus private debate within the New Jersey high school sports community has raged for years, mainly in the north and especially in football. Don Bosco Prep and its parochial county rival, Bergen Catholic, have dominated public school teams and often left coaches and parents fuming over the blatant mismatches that run counter to what many believe to be the nature and intent of high school sports.
''They're throwing the ball with seven seconds left instead of taking a knee there?'' Ron Anello, the Clifton coach, said after the Nov. 5 game. ''Come on, these are kids out there. Why embarrass them? But they've forgotten that because to them it's a business.''
Since 1999, when Greg Toal took over as coach of a downtrodden football program at Don Bosco Prep in Ramsey, the team has lost only 10 games and become a national parochial power. Enrollment at the school has increased by 50 percent to about 900, which many believe is the result of its expanded football exposure. Bosco has captured four consecutive nonpublic state titles and won all eight games this season despite graduating a wealth of Division I-caliber seniors from its 2009 unbeaten team.
Clifton, a public school from Passaic County in Group 4, the largest state classification, has had a successful football program under Anello and entered the Bosco game with a 5-2 record.
But as Toal admitted while his 80-plus players piled onto two coach buses in the late-night chill: ''This is apples and oranges, and I've been saying for years that I would prefer to play other schools. We don't want to play anyone that doesn't want to play us.''
The feeling was quite mutual.
''This isn't a level playing field, and it's not educational,'' Anello said. ''I'll compare it to academics: we don't take a general-math kid and put him in a calculus class, do we? So why are we playing these guys?''
The answer is based on a complicated system that forces Don Bosco -- which also travels the country to play other high-profile opponents -- to schedule 70 percent of its games in New Jersey so it can qualify for the state tournament. But the format has also kept the Ironmen off the regular-season schedules of some other parochial schools that apparently want no part of them, either.
''Seton Hall should be playing us,'' Toal said of the West Orange school that has built a 9-0 record this season, mostly against public schools. ''St. Peter's Prep should be on our schedule. But that's not something we can get done by ourselves.''
Five years ago, a movement by public schools to force complete separation from the nonpublics resulted in a referendum of all schools that was defeated in a close vote. The compromise, reached shortly thereafter, was more limited competition, according to Steve Timko, the executive director of the New Jersey State Interscholastic Athletic Association.
''The system hadn't been looked at in 27 or 28 years,'' Timko said in a telephone interview. ''And I've said that when we made the changes that it would be a three-to-five-year process. During the 2011-12 season, I'll put another committee together to look at the balance of public and nonpublic, and we'll go through the thing again.''
By comparison, New York City public schools have their own league, although in some areas of New York State, including Buffalo and Rochester, nonpublics compete in public school leagues.
According to Anello and several public school athletic directors, facing a team with the aspirations and reach of a school like Don Bosco makes it difficult to argue for crossover competition between public and nonpublic schools. Bosco has become a destination school for football prodigies, drawing from several New Jersey counties and from across the state line in New York.
''Anybody who believes that they don't recruit, they got to get their head out of the sand,'' Anello said.
Toal and others at Bosco said their results speak for themselves and the players come to them -- which Anello acknowledged was also occurring.
''We're talking with one of their families last year, strike up a conversation, and it turns out they moved here from out of state so their kid could play at Bosco,'' Anello said. ''Who's moving to Clifton so their kid can play here?''
He added that the grim economy that has forced New Jersey to drastically cut state aid to public schools has exacerbated the problem and widened the gulf. His staff lost two coaches this season because of athletic department cuts. The more financial pain that public schools suffer, the more parents of talented athletes look to schools like Don Bosco Prep and Seton Hall Prep, which they believe will offer a better sports platform and education.
''Parents are out there shopping their kids, and it's out of control,'' Anello said. ''I'm a public school guy, always have been, but, hey, if you want to go to Bosco, or Bergen Catholic, fine,'' he said. ''And if you're Bosco and you want to take the best kids from all over this area, go ahead. But we shouldn't be in the position of having to have them come back here and beat the hell out of us on top of that.''
Bosco's first nonpublic state tournament game is set for Friday night against Paramus Catholic. The Clifton game was Bosco's fourth and last against public school competition this season. It won the four games by a cumulative score of 204-33. In October, when Bosco beat John F. Kennedy, 58-6, the Paterson public school dressed only 20-plus players because of injuries and other factors, according to James Fitzgerald, the athletic director.
''Anything so physically lopsided can present a danger, especially these days, with the focus on concussions,'' he said.
Two weeks later, Bosco hammered Passaic County Tech, 63-0, which left Sharon Hughes, the Tech athletic director, more concerned with her students' emotional well-being.
''You can't tell me every one of our kids didn't get on the bus that day feeling humiliated and asking themselves, 'Why are we doing this?' '' she said. ''As it is, we have kids that come from home situations that test their self-esteem enough.''
So, what is the answer? Nunzio Campanile, the Bergen Catholic coach who until this season was Bosco's athletic director and offensive coordinator, said it would be impractical for all the bigger nonpublics to play one another in sports like basketball and baseball, given the travel distances that would be required on school days.
''But football is a different animal, once a week, Friday night or Saturday afternoon,'' he said. ''I said this last year after the 71-0 Clifton game that we shouldn't be playing them. We should have a separate league for the parochial schools.''
Failing that, Anello prescribed a simpler resolution. ''The state needs to wake up and waive the 70 percent rule,'' he said. ''Let Bosco play whoever they want and still compete in the state tournament.''
Anything to avoid the annual spectacle of playing a team that, he said, could probably compete on some college levels and is not shy about demonstrating its might for those news media outlets that rank high school teams. (Bosco's football team finished last season ranked No. 1 in USA Today's Super 25 national rating.)
Although Anello bristled over Bosco's running up the score at the end of the first half, Toal argued that as a public school teacher at Hackensack High School and winner of multiple state titles at three Bergen County public schools, he had no motivation to embarrass Clifton and was just letting his team go full throttle for one half.
''It's a tough situation; it really is,'' he said.
''Tell me about it,'' Anello said outside the Clifton locker room as his unsmiling players stopped by for a handshake or a hug on their way home.
There was one consolation for Clifton in the 48-13 drubbing that crushed the team's state tournament hopes. Relegated to a consolation-round game, the Mustangs were scheduled as the host team against Hackensack on Friday night. Trommelen and the other Clifton seniors would have another home game in which to flush the Bosco debacle from their systems.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 16, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Because of an editing error, an article on Friday about the dominance of football teams from private high schools in New Jersey misidentified the location of Seton Hall Prep. It is in West Orange, not South Orange. (Seton Hall University is in South Orange.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clifton's Mustang mascot had a bench to itself after Don Bosco Prep took a 48-0 lead at halftime.
Don Bosco won its four games against public school competition by a cumulative score of 204-33.
''Come on, these are kids out there,'' Clifton Coach Ron Anello, left, said after his team's 48-13 drubbing. ''Why embarrass them? But they've forgotten that because to them it's a business.'' (B11)
 Jared Goldenberg, center, and his Don Bosco Prep teammates play for one of the top-ranked high school teams in the country. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEN SOLOMON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (89%); SPORTS (89%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); ATHLETES (77%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2010



462 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1422 words

HEADLINE: Fear of Free Trade

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI; Makiko Inoue contributed reporting from Tokyo.

 BODY:
IWAMIZAWA, Japan -- Atsushi Kono considers it the gravest threat to his family's farm in a century of rice-growing: a free-trade initiative that could dismantle Japan's sky-high protective farming tariffs, finally opening up the country to cheap, foreign produce.
In a move pitting Japanese farmers against the nation's export industries, Prime Minister Naoto Kan is pushing to join negotiations for an American-backed free-trade zone called the Trans-Pacific Partnership that would span the Pacific Rim.
The new zone would give Japanese exporters of cars, televisions and other manufactured goods greater access to the United States and other markets. But a trade agreement could dismantle the generous protections that have sustained Japanese farms for years -- most notably, Japan's 777.7 percent tariff on imported rice. 
Free trade is high on the agenda of the back-to-back summit meetings of the Group of 20 and Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum this week in South Korea and Japan, attended by leaders including President Obama and Mr. Kan.
''Japan is determined to more actively open up to the world,'' Mr. Kan told world leaders gathered at the G-20 meeting in Seoul, South Korea, on Thursday. Meanwhile, Pacific Rim trade ministers gathering in Yokohama, Japan, vowed to take concrete steps to create a vast free-trade area that would involve over half of the world's economic output.
But Japan's politically powerful agriculture industry is not cheering. The Agricultural Ministry warns that if Japan were to join the proposed trade zone, 90 percent of the nation's rice cultivation would disappear, and wheat, sugar, dairy and beef output would also be adversely affected -- costing the country about 4 trillion yen, or $49 billion, in lost production and 3.4 million lost jobs.
''This is the end of the road for my farm,'' said Mr. Kono, 60, who grows rice, wheat, red beans and cabbage on 17 acres of farmland here in Iwamizawa, on Hokkaido, Japan's northernmost main island. He would probably end up selling his land, he said, if he could find a buyer.
''But then what do I do?'' Mr. Kono said. ''I can't see a future at all.''
On Tuesday, 1,000 farmers took to the streets in Iwamizawa, fists raised against what they say is a government betrayal that will ruin their livelihoods. On Wednesday, almost 3,000 farmers rallied in Tokyo against free-trade plans.
''Farming communities across Japan will face ruin,'' said Mamoru Moteki, who heads an umbrella organization for Japanese agricultural cooperatives. ''We must prevent this by all means.''
Mr. Kan is eager for Japan to join negotiations for the American-backed Pacific trade partnership, which seeks to remove all tariffs among its members. Though preliminary negotiations involve just nine countries, including the United States and Singapore, the plan would be a building block for a wider pan-Pacific free-trade zone.
The Japanese business lobby has gone all-out in support of the drive, saying it would help exporters -- like automakers and electronics manufacturers -- regain their competitive edge. The country's exporters have been particularly vocal as their overseas earnings suffered from a strong yen, which can make Japan-made products more expensive overseas or erode exporters' overseas earnings.
Meanwhile, the high agricultural tariffs mean Japanese consumers must choose between expensive domestic produce or even more expensive imports. They pay four times the average global price for rice; three times the global average for sugar, butter and beef; and twice the global average for wheat, according to government estimates.
Not surprisingly, the Japanese public tends to back more free trade. In a recent nationwide poll by Kyodo News, 46.6 percent of respondents said Japan should join the Trans-Pacific Partnership, versus 38.6 percent who opposed it.
Although Japan has negotiated free-trade agreements with a handful of smaller trading partners, including members of Asean, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, Tokyo has always insisted that agricultural produce like rice and dairy stay exempt from the tariff reductions. Besides the high rice tariffs, Japan levies a 252 percent tariff on imported wheat, 360 percent on butter, 328 percent on sugar and 38.5 percent for beef.
Partly as a result of that rigid stance, Tokyo has yet to conclude free-trade agreements with China, the United States or the European Union, which are Japan's main export markets -- a major impediment to gaining market share, exporters argue.
''Any further delays will mean Japan will be left out of global economic growth,'' Hiromasa Yonekura, chairman of the Nippon Keidanren, Japan's biggest business lobby, told reporters at a gathering this month.
Japanese exporters are particularly wary of rivals from South Korea, which has been more aggressive in forging trade agreements with important trading partners. A free-trade agreement between South Korea and the European Union goes into force next July, while Seoul is trying to reach a similar agreement with the United States. Staying out of a pan-Asian free-trade bloc would shave at least 1.5 percent, or 10.5 trillion yen ($128 billion), from the Japanese gross domestic product and eliminate eight million jobs, according to a recent estimate by Japan's trade ministry. Exporters have threatened to shift more factories from Japan to overseas locations to get around both tariffs and the strong yen.
''To be globally competitive, we need to be able to play by the same rules,'' Osamu Suzuki, chief executive at Suzuki Motor, said during a news conference this month.
Despite the public polls showing support for a free-trade agreement, Mr. Kan is making a big political gamble in pushing to join the talks. Although farming and other primary industries, like mining, make up just 1.5 percent of gross domestic output, outdated election maps and effective organization by farmers give Japan's rural communities disproportionate political power. A sizable group of lawmakers in Mr. Kan's ruling Democratic Party have urged him to abandon his free-trade drive to placate the nation's farmers.
''If things go as is, the Democratic Party can expect electoral setbacks as serious as those of Mr. Obama in the United States,'' Masaru Kaneko, a political economist at Keio University in Tokyo, warned lawmakers at a gathering in Tokyo this week.
Partly bowing to the pressure, Mr. Kan has softened his stance, promising this week that Japan, for now, would only ''initiate consultations'' on joining the Trans-Pacific Partnership. He has also promised to overhaul the country's agricultural policy, possibly increasing subsidies to farmers.
The anger is evident in Tokachi, another major farming region on Hokkaido, where local officials warn that the entire region would lose jobs across all sectors if farms were allowed to perish. Tokachi has few manufacturers to speak of, with local factories making potato chips, sugar, cheese and butter. Even the transportation networks are maintained by farms.
But local farmers say that their sector has been weakened by a reliance on tariffs and ineffective government subsidies, which do not reward farms for innovation or productivity. High transaction costs hamper efforts to consolidate farmland and raise efficiencies, they say, leaving farms fragmented. According to government statistics, the average size of a farm in Japan was just 1.9 hectares, or 4.7 acres, in 2009, compared with 198 hectares in the United States.
Moreover, a sprawling and bureaucratic distribution system dissipates farmers' earnings. That leaves farm incomes depressed despite the heavy protection they receive and drives younger generations from farming, experts say. In 2010, the average age of Japan's 2.6 million farmers reached 65.
''As it is, Japanese farming is in crisis,'' said Masayoshi Honma, a professor in agricultural economics at the University of Tokyo. The trade partnership, he said, could perhaps ''serve as a much-needed shock therapy.''
Masatoshi Honda, 67, and his son, Koichiro -- who run a small dairy farm of about 100 cows in Tokachi -- say they are eager to expand and eventually export premium cheese and butter overseas. But entrepreneurship has not been rewarded in Japanese farming policy, they say, and farmers need more time to prepare for greater competition from overseas.
''We realize Japan can't resist opening up forever,'' said the younger Mr. Honda, 34. ''But fixing Japanese farming has to come first,'' he said. ''Everything is happening too suddenly.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Japan, which is considering a trade alliance, has a 777.7 percent tariff on imported rice, helping farmers like Atsushi Kono. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO TABUCHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); RICE FARMING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); FAMILY FARMS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); AGRICULTURAL OUTPUT (72%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (55%)

PERSON: NAOTO KAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) KANTO, JAPAN (79%); HOKKAIDO, JAPAN (78%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



463 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: For Pick to Lead Schools, One Man Left to Persuade

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
The man who will decide whether Cathleen P. Black, a publisher with no educational leadership experience, is qualified to lead the nation's largest school system is himself a career educator known for his efforts to better prepare teachers for the classroom.
But David M. Steiner, the New York State education commissioner, is also a well-regarded figure among the school reform movement, whose guiding principle is that American students are best served by a results-driven, businesslike approach to education management. 
In the debate over Ms. Black's qualifications -- or lack of them -- Dr. Steiner has quickly emerged as a focal point in what is widely expected to be a contentious process. State law requires all school chiefs to hold a professional certificate in educational leadership and to have at least three years' experience in schools, two qualifications she lacks. The law allows for the education commissioner to grant a waiver to ''exceptionally qualified persons.''
At least one elected official -- Tony Avella, a former city councilman from Queens elected last week to the State Senate -- has already urged the commissioner to deny the waiver, and Merryl H. Tisch, the chancellor of the State Board of Regents, said Thursday that her office had been flooded with phone calls and e-mails from parents, teachers and community leaders both for and against the waiver. She has no formal role in the waiver process but said she would be facilitating it.
Dr. Steiner, who took office in October 2009, has so far given no indication of where he stands, and declined to be interviewed.
Tom Dunn, a spokesman for the commissioner, said the Education Department had not yet received New York City's request for a waiver for Ms. Black.
Mr. Dunn said that once it does, Dr. Steiner will convene a screening panel consisting of representatives of the State Education Department and educational organizations to make a recommendation to Dr. Steiner. Mr. Dunn would not speculate on how long that would take.
Dr. Steiner has not previously received a waiver request, though his predecessor, Richard P. Mills, approved a waiver for the current schools chancellor, Joel I. Klein, in 2002. But in 2004, the Education Department told the city not to bother applying for a waiver for one candidate for a deputy chancellor position, which also required a certificate.
Dr. Steiner, 52, was born in Princeton, N.J., where his father was a visiting scholar at the Institute for Advanced Study. He grew up mainly in Cambridge, England, though he briefly attended Public School 41 in Greenwich Village.
He graduated from Balliol College at Oxford University with a bachelor's and a master's degree in philosophy, politics and economics, and later earned a doctorate in political science from Harvard University.
During a long career in education, Dr. Steiner has been director of arts education at the National Endowment for the Arts, and a professor at the school of education at Boston University. He also taught at Vanderbilt University.
He is known among reformers for his efforts to get education schools to spend more time imbuing teachers with practical classroom skills and less time on abstract notions like the ''role of school in democracy,'' he said in an interview this year.
As dean of the school of education at Hunter College, he developed a system of filming student teachers to evaluate their mastery of skills like making eye contact, calling students by name and waiting for more complete answers.
''He very clearly thinks out of the box,'' said Charlotte K. Frank, a longtime New York City educator and a member of the New York State Board of Regents from 2000 to 2002.
This year, he was instrumental in getting the state teachers' union to agree to a system of evaluating teachers based partly on test scores, which has been a major goal of the new generation of education leaders, including Mr. Klein and the federal education secretary, Arne Duncan. That agreement helped the state win nearly $700 million in federal Race to the Top money.
Henry L. Grishman, superintendent of the Jericho district on Long Island, said Dr. Steiner has also been a forceful advocate for professional development for teachers, encouraging districts to revise and update their programs to make them more effective. ''He has brought a lot of creative and substantive ideas to the table, and I'm eagerly waiting to see them come to fruition,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David M. Steiner, the state education commissioner, at a hearing in Albany in January. He started in the job in October 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); ENDOWMENTS (73%); EDUCATION REFORM (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); APPROVALS (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (63%)

PERSON: CATHLEEN BLACK (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



464 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: With Failure of South Korean Trade Pact, a Lost Opportunity for Obama

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; Sewell Chan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- From Seoul to Washington, business leaders, foreign policy analysts and diplomats were convinced that President Obama would wrap up a free trade accord during a meeting with President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea on Thursday.
Instead, the two leaders emerged empty-handed, arriving at their joint news conference to say that they had instructed their negotiators to keep at it a little while longer.
''We need to make sure that over the next several weeks, we are crossing all the t's, dotting all the i's, being able to make the case to both the Korean people and the United States population that this is good for both countries,'' said Mr. Obama, who is in Seoul for the Group of 20 conference. ''And if we rush something that then can't garner popular support, that's going to be a problem. We think we can make the case, but we want to make sure that that case is airtight.''
It was a concession to the fact that Mr. Obama is dealing with a new and unpredictable Congress. White House officials said that the president would rather suffer a one-day loss of face here than bring home a deal that would be unacceptable on Capitol Hill. 
Mr. Obama made that clear in a meeting with his advisers after his arrival in Seoul on Wednesday, after Ron Kirk, the United States trade representative and chief negotiator, told Mr. Obama there were sticking points he had yet to overcome. ''I'd rather get this right than get it rushed,'' Mr. Obama told Mr. Kirk, according to a senior administration official who was present.
The accord -- aimed primarily at expanding American exports of cars and beef -- is an update of one signed in 2007 by President George W. Bush. It would represent one of the biggest such pacts since the North American Free Trade Agreement in the 1990s, and analysts say it is an important underpinning for other deals the administration is seeking, including a regional agreement with Asia-Pacific nations.
The Bush-negotiated pact has languished in the Democratic-controlled Congress. But at the Group of 20 conference in Toronto in June, Mr. Obama very publicly threw his weight behind it, while calling for technical modifications that would be more favorable to American automakers and industrial unions.
In Toronto, Mr. Obama said he wanted the deal ''lined up properly'' by the time he arrived in Seoul. But after furious negotiations over the past week -- including all-night talks Wednesday -- his self-imposed deadline passed. Mr. Obama said Thursday that he expected an agreement ''in a matter of weeks.''
But analysts agree that the president's moment of maximum leverage -- his meeting with Mr. Lee -- has come and gone. The changed political landscape in Washington could give the deal new momentum. Yet, even with Republicans, who are more favorable toward free trade, controlling the House, Mr. Obama will still have to deal with a Democratic Senate, as well as a Republican Tea Party caucus whose members might be hostile to working with him and who are skeptical of trade deals.
He is also under intense pressure from the auto industry. Just last week, the Ford Motor Company, the only one of the big three Detroit automakers to have survived the economic downturn without resorting to a government bailout, placed newspaper advertisements calling the deal unfair.
Auto imports were the big sticking point in the talks, American officials said. Mr. Obama and Mr. Lee met for two hours, with 40 minutes of that devoted to the free trade pact, officials said.
South Korea's environmental standards, different from those in the United States, have provoked complaints from carmakers who say the regulations would drive up costs. Last year Korean companies sold 10 times as many cars in the United States as American car companies sold in South Korea.
Mr. Kirk said that Mr. Obama was ''very honest, very upfront'' with Mr. Lee and that ''the disparity in market access for the American automotive industry, compared to the very deep penetration from the Korean industry in the U.S., was one we needed to address.''
Mr. Obama has made doubling American exports over the next five years a centerpiece of his economic agenda. As he travels through Asia, in the wake of midterm elections that focused on voter discontent with the economy, he is trying both to promote job creation and to repair ties with the American business community. The Korean trade pact is a priority for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, whose president, Thomas J. Donohue, has said he can round up the Congressional votes to get it approved.
In the three years since Mr. Bush negotiated the first free trade pact with South Korea, other nations, including Australia and Canada, have enacted similar deals, and the chamber argues that the United States is falling behind. China also is negotiating free trade pacts in Asia, a source of concern to the Obama administration, which is trying to promote alliances in the region to tamp down China's influence.
''The landscape in Asia has changed,'' said Tami Overby, the vice president for Asia at the Chamber of Commerce, who had been monitoring the talks. ''It's much more competitive, so I think the pressure on both sides to get this deal done is greater than ever.''
But trade is a tough sell at home. A survey released Wednesday by the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press found substantial skepticism about trade deals.
The poll found that 35 percent of adults said that free-trade agreements had been good for the United States, while 44 percent said they had been bad. Republicans and Republican-leaning independents who agreed with the Tea Party movement had a particularly negative view.
In Washington, where trade is an issue that cuts more along regional than party lines, Democrats from manufacturing states, like Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio, praised the president for holding firm. But analysts on both sides of the political aisle described the events Thursday as a serious setback for the president.
Robert Z. Lawrence, a former economics adviser to President Bill Clinton, called the failure to reach an agreement ''very troubling.'' Victor Cha, who advised President Bush on Asia policy, said it was a ''difficult blow.''
''The big question in Asia was do these elections in the U.S. weaken him,'' Mr. Cha said. ''The standard response is, of course not. But here you have something that he really put his mark on last summer. He set a deadline and he was unable to achieve it in front of the whole world.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); BEEF (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (67%); AUTOMAKERS (62%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (62%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (62%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); LEE MYUNG-BAK (74%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RON KIRK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



465 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: DealBook Online

BYLINE: By KEVIN ROOSE

 BODY:
As Wall Street scrambles to comply with the regulations of the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul, one little-noticed provision has executives scratching their heads.
The statute, included in Section 342 of the bill, creates 20 Offices of Minority and Women Inclusion at the various regulatory agencies, including the Treasury, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the 12 Federal Reserve banks and the newly created Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
Once established, the offices are charged with monitoring the diversity at the agencies as well as at any contractors or subcontractors, including law firms, accounting firms and investment banks. These contracts, totaling in the billions a year, are typically awarded to private firms for services like debt issuances and sales of government assets, as well as more general advisory services. 
Section 342 was proposed by Representative Maxine Waters, Democrat of California, who argued that putting diversity regulators in the agencies would help to correct racial and gender imbalances at Wall Street firms, as well as in the subcontracting process.
''Qualified minority- and women-owned businesses continue to be excluded from contracting opportunities made available by the government's historic intervention at banks and other financial institutions,'' Ms. Waters said in a floor speech in 2009.
According to the bill's text, if an agency's compliance director concludes that a contractor has not made ''a good faith effort to include minorities and women in its work force,'' the agency head is authorized to cancel the contract, refer the matter to the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs or take other unspecified remedial actions.
The clause also requires the agencies to recruit at historically black universities and women's colleges, sponsor job fairs in urban communities and submit detailed yearly reports summarizing their diversity efforts to Congress.
Republican lawmakers criticized the provision when it was introduced, calling it another example of big-government social engineering.
''The problem with this clause is that it's largely redundant,'' said Lawrence Z. Lorber, an employment law specialist at the law firm Proskauer Rose. ''Most of these firms and agencies are already covered by multiple nondiscrimination laws. If you require more extensive disclosure of diversity practices, what you'll get is a lot of very long reports essentially saying the same thing.''
Mark A. Calabria, director of financial regulation studies at the Cato Institute, called the provision ''a wild card.''
''The language of the clause is so vague that it could do nothing at all,'' Mr. Calabria said. ''But in the hands of a regulator who really wanted to make an issue out of diversity hiring, it could have a substantial impact.''
While Section 342 would require investment banks and other contractors to ensure ''fair inclusion and utilization'' of minorities and women, it does not define the term, nor does it offer concrete guidelines for firms seeking to comply with the regulations. Also unclear is how the clause's requirements will differ from existing affirmative action laws, like those enforced by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
The Dodd-Frank bill gives agency administrators until late January to appoint compliance directors who will develop standards for their agencies.
Several large banks declined to comment on their Section 342 compliance plans, and a Fed spokesman said only: ''We're currently working on setting up these offices according to the requirements of the Dodd-Frank bill.''
For guidance, banks and their compliance officers are looking to a similar clause in the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008, which requires Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Home Loan Banks to submit finely detailed reports on the progress of their diversity efforts. Some suspect that Section 342 will impose similar requirements.
Karen L. Corman, a partner at Skadden, Arps who specializes in labor law, said that investment banks, law firms and other affected companies would have to find ways to take ''meaningful views'' of their work forces in the coming months, but believed it was unlikely that the regulations would result in quotas or other hard-line remedies.
''Until these regulations come out, we don't know what the standards and remedies are going to look like,'' Ms. Corman said. ''Firms clearly need to review their diversity profiles and minority outreach programs to make sure everything's within a range of acceptability. But beyond that, there's not a lot of guidance.''
Despite the uncertainty around Section 342, some executives are looking forward to increased scrutiny of Wall Street's hiring and subcontracting processes.
''No legislation is perfect,'' said Jack Foster, managing director at CastleOak Securities, a minority-owned boutique investment firm. ''But this is a good step forward for giving firms like us a chance to compete.''
At the very least, said Susan Ganz, president of the Financial Women's Association of New York, a professional organization for women in banking and business, ''it's an opportunity to have the conversation about diversity in the financial sector. And maybe it will lead to action.''
Section 342 of the Dodd-Frank Act
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ACCOUNTING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); WOMEN (78%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (75%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); POLITICS (72%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (71%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); LABOR FORCE (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (63%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (63%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (62%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (72%); PROSKAUER ROSE LLP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%); OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (57%); BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (72%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (72%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: MAXINE WATERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



466 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1433 words

HEADLINE: Obama Takes Asia by Sea

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. KAPLAN


HIGHLIGHT: Robert D. Kaplan, the author of ''Monsoon: The Indian Ocean and the Future of American Power,'' is a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security and a correspondent for The Atlantic.

 BODY:
Stockbridge, Mass.
PRESIDENT OBAMA has insisted that his 10-day Asian journey is all about jobs: ''The primary purpose is to ... open up markets so that we can sell in Asia, in some of the fastest-growing markets in the world, and we can create jobs here in the United States of America.'' But this recasting of the agenda, a late reaction to the midterm election, obscured the vital geopolitical importance of the trip.
In fact, the president has been confronting a new strategic map that lies beyond our messy and diversionary land wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. In geographical terms, two of the countries on the itinerary, India and Indonesia, are in the same increasingly pivotal region: the southern coastal areas, or ''rimland'' of Eurasia, which is emerging as the world's hydrocarbon interstate, uniting energy-rich Arabia and Iran with the growing economies of the Pacific.
Gone today are the artificial divisions of cold-war-era studies: now the ''Middle East,'' ''South Asia,'' ''Southeast Asia'' and ''East Asia'' are part of a single organic continuum. In geopolitical terms, the president's visits in all four countries are about one challenge: the rise of China on land and sea. 
India is increasingly feeling hemmed in by China's military might. It lies within the arc of operations of Chinese fighter jets based in Tibet. China is building or developing large ports in Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Burma, and providing all these Indian Ocean countries with significant military and economic aid.
Although India and China fought a border war in the early 1960s, they have never really been rivals, separated as they are by the Himalayas. But the shrinkage of distance thanks to globalism and advances of military technology has spawned a rivalry that is defining the new Eurasia.
Indeed, it is India's emergence as a great Eurasian power that constitutes the best piece of news for American strategists since the end of the cold war. Merely by rising without any formal alliance with Washington, democratic India balances statist China. Even closer links between the United States and India would be better -- and no doubt factored into Mr. Obama's talk of backing India for a seat on the United Nations Security Council -- but are made complex by our chaotic land wars.
While President Obama would like to withdraw from Afghanistan, Indian leaders remain afraid he will do precisely that. To Indians, Afghanistan is not a distant Central Asian country: it is historically part of the subcontinent. Empires as distant as the Harappans in the fourth millennium B.C. and as recent as the Mughals in the early modern era made Afghanistan, Pakistan and northern India part of the same polity. Indian elites carry this history in their bones.
India wants a relatively benign and non-fundamentalist Afghanistan as a way of limiting Pakistan's influence in the region. (That's why India supported the Soviet-puppet Afghan leaders in the 1980s against the C.I.A.-backed mujahedeen.)
Were the United States to withdraw precipitously, India would understandably look to Iran, Russia and perhaps China as allies in a tacit effort to contain Pakistan. Thus we could lose the prospect of a de facto pro-American India to balance the military and economic rise of China.
President Obama must weigh this fact against the knowledge that every year the war in Afghanistan costs our military the equivalent of building several aircraft-carrier strike groups that could be used to increase our presence and to contain the expansion of the Chinese Navy in the Western Pacific, something that would assuage the concerns of our allies there. Of course, the president would rather use the savings to pay down the deficit; nonetheless, the Navy and the influence in Eurasia that it can provide have clearly been the loser in these land wars.
With Indonesia, Mr. Obama faces a similarly tricky challenge. Well over 200 million of Indonesia's 240 million inhabitants are Muslims. Because the bearers of Islam there were sea-borne merchants, and thus heralds of a cosmopolitan interpretation of the faith that fit well with indigenous Javanese culture, Islam in Indonesia (and throughout the South Seas) has lacked the austere ideological edge found in the Middle East.
Today, however, the advent of global communications, along with the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and the dispatch of Wahhabi clerics from the Persian Gulf to the Far East, has radicalized many Indonesians. This puts the nation's leaders in a bind: on the one hand, they want a robust American naval presence to counterbalance China, which is Indonesia's largest trading partner; on the other, they fear angering the wider Islamic world if they make closer ties to Washington too public.
Indonesia, whose archipelago is as vast as the continental United States is wide, has only two submarines; China has dozens. While China's materialistic culture may soften the influence of political Islam in Southeast Asia, China also plays on the tension between the West and global Islam in order to limit American influence there. That is why President Obama's mission to rebrand America in the eyes of Muslims carries benefits that go far beyond Indonesia and the Middle East.
Indonesia's Muslim democracy, a dozen years after the fall of Suharto, boasts vigor and moderation. And combined with Indonesia's immense population, it augurs the emergence of a sort of ''second India'' in the Eurasian rimland, strategically located on the Strait of Malacca, the shipping superhighway between the Indian and Pacific Oceans. Since the art of preparing for a multipolar world in military as well as economic terms is to gain the support of like-minded others, the Obama administration needs to use the energy generated by the president's visit in order to adopt Indonesia as its new favorite country, just as India was adopted by the George W. Bush administration to substantial effect.
As for Japan and South Korea, while China remains their biggest trading partner, both fear Beijing's growing navy and the ''soft power'' it projects in the Pacific. This is largely why these countries have let Washington maintain a military presence on their soil and the United States has pushed them to expand their own forces.
Yet the Japanese and South Korean publics are increasingly restive about the American military bases. Thus our strategic future in the region is not these huge cold-war-type bases with their fast-food restaurants and shopping malls; they inevitably become political millstones. Rather, we need discreet operating locations, under local sovereignty, that the Pentagon helps to maintain. It's a strategy that will work only if such operations don't raise the ire of the local populations and press, meaning that our public diplomacy will have to be effective and unceasing.
Indeed, Washington has been making great strides on the public-diplomacy front: a principal benefit of having special envoys to Israel and the Palestinian territories and to Afghanistan and Pakistan is that it has freed Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to make more high-profile trips to East and South Asia, where she has been, in effect, competing all the while with China on the public stage. The president's trip is one culmination of this effort.
THE 20th century saw great, land-centric Army deployments to Europe. George W. Bush unwittingly continued this tendency with great, land-centric deployments to the Middle East, where we became ensnared in intra-Islamic conflict. As President Obama develops his grand strategy for Eurasia, the great step forward would be creating a smaller footprint on land and a bigger one at sea. Navies are very conducive to projecting soft power: they make port visits and guard the global commons, whereas armies invade.
Easing India's fears about Chinese-built ports in the Indian Ocean as well as Indonesia and its neighbors' worries about Chinese designs in the South China Sea and Japan and South Korea's about China's goal of dominating the islands of the Western Pacific is in each case a matter of warships, not ground troops.
As the Yale geostrategist Nicholas J. Spykman wrote in 1942, because America had no rivals in the Western Hemisphere, it had the ''power to spare for activities outside the New World,'' like determining the balance of power in the Eastern Hemisphere. And in Eurasia, Spykman went on, the maritime rimland is pivotal, because it is essential to the supercontinent's contact with the outside world. Let's hope that President Obama's visits to key states of coastal Asia will prove Spykman's theory correct.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DANIEL STOLLE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (89%); COLD WAR (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (73%); COASTAL AREAS (69%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (93%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); HIMALAYAS (57%) INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (96%); CHINA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); TIBET (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); BANGLADESH (79%); INDONESIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); MYANMAR (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



467 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Guidance on Dodd-Frank's Diversity Clause

 BODY:
As Wall Street scrambles to comply with the regulations of the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul, one little-noticed provision has executives scratching their heads.
The statute, contained in Section 342 of the bill, creates 20 Offices of Minority and Women Inclusion at the various regulatory agencies, including the Treasury, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the 12 Federal Reserve banks and the newly created Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
Once established, the offices are charged with monitoring the diversity at the agencies as well as at any contractors or subcontractors, including law firms, accounting firms and investment banks. These contracts, totaling in the billions a year, are typically awarded to private firms for services like debt issuances and sales of government assets, as well as more general advisory services. 
Section 342 was proposed by Representative Maxine Waters, Democrat of California, who argued that putting diversity regulators in the agencies would help to correct racial and gender imbalances at Wall Street firms, as well as in the subcontracting process.
''Qualified minority- and women-owned businesses continue to be excluded from contracting opportunities made available by the government's historic intervention at banks and other financial institutions,'' Ms. Waters said in a floor speech in 2009.
According to the bill's text, if an agency's compliance director concludes that a contractor has not made ''a good faith effort to include minorities and women in its work force,'' the agency head is authorized to cancel the contract, refer the matter to the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs or take other unspecified remedial actions.
The clause also requires the agencies to recruit at historically black universities and women's colleges, sponsor job fairs in urban communities and submit detailed yearly reports summarizing their diversity efforts to Congress.
Republican lawmakers criticized the provision when it was introduced, calling it another example of big-government social engineering.''The problem with this clause is that it's largely redundant,'' said Lawrence Z. Lorber, an employment law specialist at the law firm Proskauer Rose. ''Most of these firms and agencies are already covered by multiple nondiscrimination laws. If you require more extensive disclosure of diversity practices, what you'll get is a lot of very long reports essentially saying the same thing.''
Mark A. Calabria, director of financial regulation studies at the Cato Institute, called the provision ''a wild card.''
''The language of the clause is so vague that it could do nothing at all,'' Mr. Calabria said. ''But in the hands of a regulator who really wanted to make an issue out of diversity hiring, it could have a substantial impact.''
While Section 342 would require investment banks and other contractors to ensure ''fair inclusion and utilization'' of minorities and women, it does not define the term, nor does it offer concrete guidelines for firms seeking to comply with the regulations. Also unclear is how the clause's requirements will differ from existing affirmative action laws, like those enforced by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
The Dodd-Frank bill gives agency administrators until late January to appoint compliance directors who will develop standards for their agencies.
Several large banks declined to comment on their Section 342 compliance plans, and a Fed spokesman said only: ''We're currently working on setting up these offices according to the requirements of the Dodd-Frank bill.''
For guidance, banks and their compliance officers are looking to a similar clause in the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008, which requires Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Home Loan Banks to submit finely detailed reports on the progress of their diversity efforts. Some suspect that Section 342 will impose similar requirements.
Karen L. Corman, a partner at Skadden, Arps who specializes in labor law, said that investment banks, law firms and other affected companies would have to find ways to take ''meaningful views'' of their work forces in the coming months, but believed it was unlikely that the regulations would result in quotas or other hard-line remedies.
''Until these regulations come out, we don't know what the standards and remedies are going to look like,'' Ms. Corman said. ''Firms clearly need to review their diversity profiles and minority outreach programs to make sure everything's within a range of acceptability. But beyond that, there's not a lot of guidance.''
Despite the uncertainty around Section 342, some executives are looking forward to increased scrutiny of Wall Street's hiring and subcontracting processes.
''No legislation is perfect,'' said Jack Foster, managing director at CastleOak Securities, a minority-owned boutique investment firm. ''But this is a good step forward for giving firms like us a chance to compete.''
At the least, said Susan Ganz, president of the Financial Women's Association of New York, a professional organization for women in banking and business, ''it's an opportunity to have the conversation about diversity in the financial sector. And maybe it will lead to action.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ACCOUNTING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); WOMEN (78%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (75%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); POLITICS (72%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (71%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); LABOR FORCE (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (63%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (63%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (62%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (72%); PROSKAUER ROSE LLP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%); OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (57%); BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (72%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (72%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: MAXINE WATERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



468 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Viacom Beats Forecasts, No Thanks to Game Unit

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
4:15 p.m. Updated
The show is over for Rock Band - at least at Viacom.
Rock Band may have been a hit among video game critics and a source of considerable buzz, but as a business, it has been a dud for the media conglomerate, which said on Thursday it was in talks to sell Harmonix, the maker of the music video game.
''Harmonix has and will continue to create terrific video games, but for us, it is about focus,'' said Philippe Dauman, Viacom's chief executive, in a conference call with analysts. ''The console games business requires an expertise and scale that we don't have.'' 
The announcement came as the company reported third-quarter earnings that surpassed the expectations of Wall Street analysts, as its flagship MTV has enjoyed a renaissance as a cultural tastemaker and an upswing in ratings. In the quarter, revenue rose 5 percent, to $3.3 billion. Excluding $260 million in write-offs on the value of Harmonix, Viacom earned 75 cents a share, above the average of 70 cents a share forecast by analysts polled by Bloomberg.
The gains at Viacom were almost solely due to its cable networks, which in addition to MTV include Nickelodeon, Comedy Central, VH1 and BET. Its film unit, Paramount Pictures, reported only a modest 1 percent increase in revenue, to $1.23 billon. In cable, revenue grew 8 percent, to $2.1 billion, which included a 7 percent gain in advertising revenue, to $1.17 billion, and a 10 percent jump in fees from distributors, to $799 million.
The increase in advertising bodes well for the direction of the media economy, and other media companies, like Time Warner and the News Corporation, have also reported recent gains in advertising.
''From our vantage point, the economy is improving,'' said Mr. Dauman. ''With the noise of the election season behind us, I believe that barring a disruptive event, the pace of economic recovery will accelerate.''
The growth in revenue from affiliate fees, the payments that distributors like cable and satellite companies pay to carry channels, inevitably raised questions about how long those gains can continue, given the increasing ability of consumers to watch high-quality video online. The threat of customers' shutting off their cable service, a phenomenon known as cord cutting, is perhaps the most salient issue right now for major media conglomerates.
Mr. Dauman, echoing the comments of other media executives recently, said: ''We don't see cord cutting as affecting our business. The economy, obviously, holds down the growth in distribution. As the economy recovers, we expect to see the number of television subscribers in the U.S. grow at a better clip than it has over the last year and a half or so.''
Mr. Dauman said ratings at MTV were up 28 percent over the previous year as it rode the hit reality show ''Jersey Shore,'' the highest-rated series ever for the network. And the enduring position of two Comedy Central shows, ''The Daily Show'' and ''The Colbert Report,'' in the cultural firmament has placed the company once again at the center of the mass culture.
''Right now, we have the most talked about, blogged about and tweeted about shows, artists, personalities and cultural phenomena,'' said Mr. Dauman.
As for video games, the Rock Band franchise has not suffered for lack of attention. Viacom bought Harmonix in 2006 for $175 million in cash, and two weeks ago, released Rock Band 3 to positive reviews. But in the third quarter, Harmonix reported a loss of $65 million before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.
Those results did not come out of the blue, considering Harmonix has been identified for some time as a drag on Viacom's earnings.
''Being in the video game space was never strategically necessary to begin with,'' said Frederick Moran, an analyst for the Benchmark Company. ''And since Rock Band as a product has matured, it now makes even less sense.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rock Band 3, made by Harmonix, which has been financially lackluster for its owner, Viacom. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARMONIX/MTV GAMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPUTER GAMES (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (78%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY REVENUES (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (74%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); MUSIC (73%); CABLE TELEVISION (73%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (55%)

COMPANY: VIACOM INC (92%); NEWS CORP (65%)

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (92%); NWS (NASDAQ) (65%); NWS (ASX) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (92%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (65%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (65%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (65%)

PERSON: PHILIPPE P DAUMAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



469 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Obama Shifts Tone to Draw North Korea Back to Talks

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- President Obama said Thursday that the United States would be willing to restart stalled disarmament talks with North Korea if that country showed a ''seriousness of purpose,'' in what analysts called a slight softening of the stance by Washington and its allies.
Speaking after a meeting with President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea on the sidelines of the Group of 20 summit meeting in Seoul, Mr. Obama said the North would have to show that it was serious about ending its nuclear weapons program before the talks -- involving the two Koreas, China, Japan, Russia and the United States -- could resume. 
He said, however, that the United States, South Korea and other nations were ready to offer hefty economic aid if the North Koreans gave up their weapons once and for all.
''They have a choice available to them,'' Mr. Obama said. ''At the point where it appears that they are in fact prepared to move forward on the kind of path that all of us want to see, then we're going to be there ready to negotiate with them.''
Starting in 2003, the six-nation talks were focused on persuading North Korea to give up its nuclear ambitions. But the talks were fitful, and North Korea pulled out last year after international condemnation of its test of a long-range missile. Washington has made offers before to try to restart the negotiations, but political analysts in Seoul said there was now a less strident tone coming from the United States and particularly South Korea. They said the moves might reflect a desire to reduce tensions and bring North Korea back to the negotiating table now that the ailing North Korean leader, Kim Jong-il, has positioned his youngest son as his successor.
''Now that the succession is almost completed, there is a definite mood shift toward resuming the six-party talks,'' said Kim Hyun-wook, a professor at the Institute of Foreign Affairs and National Security, a government-run research institute in Seoul.
The shift began a few days ago, when the South Korean president, a conservative who had taken a hawkish stance toward the North, backed away from his insistence that the talks could not resume unless the North apologized for the March sinking of a South Korean warship, the Cheonan, which killed 46 sailors. South Korea said it was sunk by a North Korean torpedo; the North has denied involvement.
On Thursday, Mr. Lee specified his more modest requirements, saying, ''North Korea should and must show sincerity toward the Republic of Korea and to assume responsibility for what they did to the Cheonan.''
Analysts said there had also been recent signals by China and Russia, both longtime allies of North Korea, that they desired a reduction of tensions in the region. On Thursday, Mr. Lee and the Chinese president, Hu Jintao, who was also attending the Group of 20 summit meeting, agreed to cooperate in seeking North Korea's nuclear disarmament.
North Korea has signaled its willingness to return to the talks. It blames hostility from the United States and South Korea for the current impasse; the two countries were among its foes during the 1950-53 Korean War and held drills in waters near North Korea after the Cheonan's sinking.
Earlier Thursday, Mr. Obama said in a Veterans Day speech at an American Army base in Seoul that the United States remained committed to defending South Korea, and he warned North Korea that it faced continued isolation unless it fulfilled its commitments to give up nuclear weapons.
In a strongly worded statement made before thousands of soldiers and Marines gathered on a chilly morning, Mr. Obama called North Korea a starving nation whose economic failures were visible even from space, where at night ''the brilliant lights of Seoul'' can be seen giving way ''to the utter darkness of the North.''
During the speech, Mr. Obama also honored the 37,000 Americans and the far larger number of South Koreans who died in the Korean War. He led the audience in a standing ovation for 62 veterans of that war who attended the speech at the Yongsan base, in the center of this city of gleaming skyscrapers and modern highways.
''Gentlemen, we are honored by your presence,'' Mr. Obama said. ''We are grateful for your service. And the world is better off because of what you did here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Veterans of the Korean War were among those who listened to a speech by President Obama in Seoul, South Korea, on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); DISARMAMENT (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); POLITICS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); LEE MYUNG-BAK (59%); KIM JONG IL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



470 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and South Korea Fail to Agree on Trade

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- President Obama and President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea failed to reach an agreement Thursday on a long-awaited free-trade agreement, saying they had decided instead to give their negotiators more time to work out differences, which revolved around Korean imports of American autos and beef.
The two men said at a news conference that they expected a deal to be reached soon. By soon, Mr. Obama said, he did not mean months.
''We want this to be done in a matter of weeks,'' he said. 
Even so, the delay is a setback for Mr. Obama, who is on a 10-day, four-nation swing through Asia that he has promoted as a mission to boost the American economy and create jobs. He has made trade -- and in particular, the doubling of American exports over the next five years -- a centerpiece of his agenda, and it had been widely expected that he would leave here with a deal with the South Koreans in hand.
Negotiators worked furiously through the night to resolve the last-minute sticking points, and Mr. Obama and Mr. Lee spent two hours in private meetings on Thursday, part of that time alone.
The two leaders discussed the trade agreement for about 40 minutes, White House officials said, but did not negotiate specific points. Ron Kirk, the United States trade representative and chief negotiator, told reporters afterward that the United States remained committed to reaching what he described as a ''compelling'' deal to help the president achieve his goal of job growth and doubling exports over five years. ''We think this free-trade agreement can play a central role in that,'' Mr. Kirk said, adding that it was ''absolutely not'' a setback for the president.
Mr. Kirk said American officials felt that the disparity in market access for the American auto industry ''was one that we needed to address,'' despite some ''very productive'' discussions between American and Korean officials over the last four days. Much of that time was spent discussing autos, he said.
The trade accord, an update of the one the Bush administration negotiated and signed in 2007 under so-called fast-track authority that has since expired, has languished in the Democratic Congress. Mr. Obama, though, has thrown his weight behind it -- while calling for some technical modifications that would be more favorable to American automakers and industrial unions -- and with Republicans soon to take control of the House of Representatives, he has a better chance of getting it through.
The announcement surprised close observers of the talks. Many had expected the two leaders to walk out with a deal in hand.
''It is disappointing, and it is incumbent on us to keep driving toward consensus,'' said Representative Peter Roskam, an Illinois Republican who had met the Korean foreign minister to discuss the trade accord.
''This is an opportunity that we can't let lapse, for economic growth in our country and also for a long-term presence in the region, particularly as it relates to China,'' Mr. Roskam said. ''My impression was that a deal would come together at the very last minute. I am surprised.''
In Washington, Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, who is chairman of the Finance Committee, also expressed disappointment. ''The U.S.-Korea F.T.A. has the potential to increase American exports and create American jobs,'' he said. ''Presidents Obama and Lee agreed in June to resolve the outstanding beef and autos issues by today's G-20 summit so we could get this deal done.''
Mr. Obama is trying to repair frayed ties with the American business community, and the deal is a high priority of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, whose president, Tom Donohue, has said he can round up the votes to get it approved.
In the three years since Mr. Bush negotiated the first free-trade pact, other nations, including Australia and Canada, have implemented similar deals, and the chamber makes the case that the United States is falling behind.
''The landscape in Asia has changed,'' said Tami Overby, vice president for Asia at the Chamber of Commerce, who is here monitoring the talks. ''It's much more competitive, so I think the pressure on both sides to get this deal done is greater than ever.''
Ms. Overby said the negotiators had a ''bumpy night,'' but that was not uncommon. ''It's a very typical intense Korean negotiation, where things do tend to go very much to the last minute, so this is not really unexpected,'' she said. ''It's a bit like deja vu from the original negotiation.''
The biggest sticking point involves auto imports. In Washington, the Democratic leadership has been pushing forcefully for lower nontariff barriers to American exports of cars to South Korea, and for eased restrictions on American exports of beef, which has been a source of controversy since an outbreak of mad cow disease in 2003.
While the agreement would lower or eliminate tariffs on cars in both countries, the Obama administration pushed for further reductions in other barriers like emissions, mileage and safety requirements, and tax and insurance rules.
''If we can reach the standard for a fair trade agreement that the president has set out on particularly autos, we will move forward,'' Jen Psaki, deputy White House press secretary who is traveling with Mr. Obama. '' We hope to continue making progress.''
Automakers are complaining that the South Koreans want to impose onerous fuel efficiency standards -- stricter than those required in the United States -- as a back-door way of keeping American cars out of South Korea.
Last week, the Ford Motor Company, the only Detroit automaker to survive the economic downturn without resorting to a government bailout, placed newspaper ads calling the deal unfair. Ford said it had backed every free-trade agreement approved by Congress since 1965 but said it could not do so for this one.
The American activist group Public Citizen has also questioned the benefits of the deal, saying that in the short term it could cost as many or more jobs as would be created.
Supporters say the deal would boost growth in both countries and solidify a longstanding alliance.
''South Korea has been our most reliable Asian ally since the Vietnam War, and Washington has not done enough to recognize that in the recent past,'' said Donald P. Gregg, who was the American ambassador here from 1989 to 1993, under President George H. W. Bush.
The talks have been going on since last week, when top trade negotiators from both countries began meeting. They were joined on Monday by Mr. Kirk and his Korean counterpart, Kim Jong-hoon.
Congressional staff have also been included, as have three members of Congress: Senator Daniel K. Inouye, Democrat of Hawaii; Senator Thad Cochran, Republican of Mississippi, and Mr. Roskam.
Trade is a tough sell in the United States, especially during tough economic times in hard-hit manufacturing communities where workers tend to view trade pacts as drawing American jobs overseas. A survey released Tuesday by the Pew Research Center found substantial skepticism about trade deals like the North American Free Trade Agreement and the policies of the World Trade Organization. The poll found that 35 percent of adults said that free-trade agreements had been good for the United States, while 44 percent said they had been bad.
While most Americans say that increased trade with Canada, Japan and European Union countries -- as well as Brazil, India and Mexico -- would be good for the United States, reactions to increased trade with China and South Korea were more mixed, according to the survey, conducted Nov. 4-7 among 1,255 adults. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus 4 percent.
Republicans and Republican-leaning independents who agreed with the Tea Party movement had a particularly negative view of the impact of free-trade agreements, the poll found.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); BEEF (72%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); JOB CREATION (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (63%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); LEE MYUNG-BAK (89%); RON KIRK (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (74%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



471 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: His Job Is to Make Public Obama's Candid Side

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Arun Chaudhary is the White House's ultimate fly on the wall.
Perpetually clad in New Balance sneakers and suits that are just slightly askew, he dashes in and out of meetings, from East Room news conferences to the Oval Office and back again, out through the South Portico and into the White House vegetable garden -- all while scrambling to blend into the background and record nearly every moment with his video camera.
One recent Tuesday, he trained his lens on President Obama, who was admiring the paintings on the wall of the Green Room as he waited to speak at a community college summit meeting.
''Arun's a very cool guy, though I have to tell him to get a haircut every once in a while,'' Mr. Obama quipped, nodding over at Mr. Chaudhary before walking out to the stage. 
Mr. Chaudhary is the official White House videographer and the first person to hold the job, a part documentarian, part White House-message-machine post. He travels with the president on roughly two-thirds of his trips, documenting the behind-the-scenes occasions and public theatrics.
He pulls his video together into ''West Wing Week,'' a signature production that comes out on the White House Web site every Friday and offers a pithy look at the president's past week. Mr. Chaudhary, 35, serves as reporter and promoter, and last week, when Democrats suffered crushing defeats in the midterms, was especially tough. Mr. Chaudhary stuck to fairly innocuous clips -- talk of ''bipartisan solutions'' and how to ''move the country forward'' -- and never overtly mentioned the president's self-described electoral ''shellacking.''
The role of the White House photographer is well known -- half historian and half propagandist, shooting generally flattering photographs of the president that are released into the world. And since at least the time of President Ronald Reagan, successive White Houses have understood the power of video, investing time and effort into creating images for television to record.
But Obama aides have gone a step further, creating imagery and then filming it themselves, knowing they can inject it into the media bloodstream because of video-sharing sites like YouTube and the increased appetite for new media and technology.
''It's about explaining issues and communicating the president's positions and agenda in as many ways as we can to make it accessible to anyone who's interested,'' said Macon Phillips, the director of new media at the White House.
The goal is twofold -- to engage the people who come to the White House Web site looking for information about the administration, and more important, to lure people who would not normally visit the government's home page.
''What's interesting in life is the transition between two things,'' Mr. Chaudhary said, explaining his fascination with private moments about to become public, like the president's greeting foreign leaders just outside the Oval Office. ''Whether you are in the United Nations or a castle in Prague, anything can happen, and probably will, in the hallway.''
The videos, which come out of both the new media and the photography offices, can be as varied as Austan D. Goolsbee, a top economic adviser to the president, explaining the Bush-era tax cuts with the help of a white board, and a phone call between Mr. Obama and Gail O'Brien, a cancer survivor helped by the new health care legislation.
They are also carefully geared toward their audience -- the new media shop might team up with WebMD, a health Web site, to promote an online chat with Kathleen Sebelius, the health and human services secretary.
Even though Mr. Chaudhary got his start shooting video for the campaign, he said he sees his job as documenting this administration for history.
''When people in 20 years see the work that I do, I hope they'll have a greater understanding of what the president is like personally and what the presidency is like as an institution,'' Mr. Chaudhary said. ''I'm hoping these moments I've saved and put out will even have a richer and more historical flavor.''
For instance, the video he shot of Mr. Obama and Elena Kagan, making bad jokes right before he officially nominated her to the Supreme Court? ''What if that had been L.B.J. and Thurgood Marshall?'' Mr. Chaudhary said. ''In 20 years, that will be amazing.''
Every video that comes out must first be approved by the press office, and while the White House says it is not trying to supplant the news media, the line can get blurry, especially when news shows use what are essentially video news releases. The video of the call between Mr. Obama and the cancer survivor found its way onto ''The Rachel Maddow Show'' on MSNBC and a segment of ABC's ''World News With Diane Sawyer.''
''It is a little disconcerting to think we're going to have these tools that are so powerful in the hands of the people who also happen to be the most powerful people in the country,'' said Nancy Scola, the associate editor of techPresident, a blog that covers technology and the federal government. ''The Obama administration has expanded the use of new media at the same time as it's freezing out old media.''
Others say the White House is not doing enough. But fellow photographers and cameramen joke that you cannot take a picture of the president without Mr. Chaudhary somewhere in the shot.
Some videos are more successful than others, but Mr. Chaudhary's ''West Wing Week'' is a brand name, especially among staff members in the building.
Mr. Chaudhary is a former New York University film instructor with an artsy bent, and his operation is a bit ragtag -- just him, his camera and his laptop. For ''West Wing Week,'' he found inspiration in the '' '60s New Wave French movie titles,'' the retro government aesthetic (think green memoranda books), the old newsreels from the early 20th century, ''The Rocky and Bullwinkle Show'' (''for that sense of the vaudeville'') and ''Arrested Development'' (''for economy of narration'').
He loves what he calls ''awkward foreign leader moments,'' like when Mr. Obama tried to make small talk between the president of Chile and the prime minister of the Netherlands, only to discover the two had already met. But his videos also have a serious side, like his ''Dispatches From Iraq'' piece.
Because of the Presidential Records Act, every piece of video the White House shoots, even the outtakes, is saved on huge storage servers, and will eventually become part of the official record in the presidential library.
''The president could be having a conversation with Reggie about what types of cheese melt better on a sandwich, so it might be a little weird if you just hear that last part about the Muenster,'' he said, referring to Mr. Obama's personal assistant, Reggie Love.
But for Mr. Chaudhary, it is just part of a job that he is creating and redefining anew daily. ''It's tough being an artist making a living in this town,'' he joked.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Arun Chaudhary is the first White House videographer, producing ''West Wing Week'' online. A fixture on the president's scene, he was in the shot, below, third from left, when President Obama walked back to the White House after remarks in March. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DREW ANGERER/ THE NEW YORK TIMES
CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS
EVAN VUCCI/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (74%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); HISTORY (71%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



472 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: Anti-Defamation League Criticizes Fox News's Beck

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
The Fox News host Glenn Beck was criticized Thursday by the Anti-Defamation League, a leading Jewish advocacy organization, in response to a televised segment about the financier George Soros and the Holocaust. 
Throughout three programs this week, Mr. Beck has portrayed Mr. Soros, a billionaire investor and philanthropist, as a ''puppet master'' who is ''notorious for collapsing economies and regimes all around the world'' and whose ''next target'' is the United States. Citing Mr. Soros's statements about the decline of the dollar, Mr. Beck said, ''Not only does he want to bring America to her knees, financially, he wants to reap obscene profits off us as well.''
Abraham H. Foxman, national director of the Anti-Defamation League, took issue with Mr. Beck's depiction of Mr. Soros as a ''Jewish boy helping sending the Jews to the death camps,'' calling it ''offensive'' and ''horrific.''
On Tuesday on his Fox program, watched by about 2.8 million people, Mr. Beck said that during the Holocaust, the 14-year-old Mr. Soros ''used to go around with this anti-Semite and deliver papers to the Jews and confiscate their property and then ship them off.''
Mr. Beck continued: ''I am certainly not saying that George Soros enjoyed that, even had a choice. I mean, he's 14 years old. He was surviving. So I'm not making a judgment. That's between him and God.'' He also said that ''many people'' would call Mr. Soros ''an anti-Semite,'' though ''I will not.''
Fox stood by Mr. Beck. Joel Cheatwood, a senior vice president at Fox News, said in a statement Thursday afternoon that the ''information regarding Mr. Soros's experiences growing up were taken directly from his writings and from interviews given by him to the media, and no negative opinion was offered as to his actions as a child.''
Still, Mr. Foxman asserted that Mr. Beck's invoking of the childhood experience was ''unacceptable,'' adding, ''To hold a young boy responsible for what was going on around him during the Holocaust as part of a larger effort to denigrate the man is repugnant.''
Writing on The Daily Beast, the author Michelle Goldberg said Mr. Beck's Tuesday and Wednesday programs were a ''symphony of anti-Semitic dog whistles.''
Mr. Beck has stirred controversy in the past for repeatedly invoking the Holocaust and Nazi Germany. But some Jewish leaders have backed him up in the past, and on Tuesday, Mr. Beck said he was ''probably more supportive of Israel and the Jews than George Soros is.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (91%); HOLOCAUST (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); WRITERS (61%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: ANTI-DEFAMATION LEAGUE (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (94%)

PERSON: GLENN BECK (92%); GEORGE SOROS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (50%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



473 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
BRITAIN PROPOSES CUTS
To Welfare and Education
A day after central London was shaken by violent protests against government-decreed increases in college tuition, Prime Minister David Cameron's government braved a potential for further popular unrest when it unveiled details of the biggest shake-up in Britain's sprawling welfare system since World War II. Page A8
CASE REOPENS IN RUSSIA 
Russian law enforcement authorities unexpectedly reopened the investigation into the beating of an outspoken newspaper editor whose case had come to symbolize the dangers facing journalists in Russia. Page A8
OBAMA EASES KOREA STANCE
President Obama said that the United States would be willing to restart stalled disarmament talks with North Korea if that country showed a ''seriousness of purpose,'' in what analysts called a slight softening of the stance by Washington and its allies. Page A14
BOMBING IN PAKISTAN
Armed attackers stormed a police compound in a heavily guarded quarter of central Karachi, detonating a car bomb in a direct strike at the government's counterterrorism forces. Page A18
National
NEW MILESTONE FOR SCIENCE:
Learning How Cats Drink
It took four engineers and a bunch of integral equations, but we now know how cats drink. The answer is: elegantly, not the way you might suppose and very fast. Page A19
LAS VEGAS IS FOR SMOKERS
At a time when much of the rest of the nation -- indeed, much of the rest of the world -- is on a crusade to banish smoking in public, the casinos of Las Vegas have emerged as a smokers' oasis. Page A19
BECK DENOUNCED BY GROUP
The Fox News host Glenn Beck was criticized by the Anti-Defamation League, a Jewish advocacy organization, after a televised segment about the financier George Soros and the Holocaust. Page A22
Metro
RESURRECTING A VILLAGE
By Buying Up Main Street
For several years, Greg O'Connell moved stealthily, buying building after building along Main Street in Mount Morris, N.Y. His intentions became clear in the last year as he took control of more than a third of downtown and began chipping away at the building facades, renovating apartments and signing up tenants. Page A23
Business
WALL STREET FALLS FOLLOWING
Cisco's Trimmed Outlook
Stocks fell Thursday, dragged down mostly by the technology sector as it reacted to a disappointing earnings forecast from Cisco Systems, considered a bellwether for corporate technology spending. Page B1
EUROPE READY TO AID IRISH
The European Union stands ready to offer a financial lifeline to Ireland, an official said, as bond investors apply pressure that threatens to derail Europe's fragile economic recovery. Page B1
SOFT QUARTER FOR DISNEY
The Walt Disney Company reported soft fourth-quarter earnings, hurt by a calendar quirk, the shift of some ESPN revenue to the third quarter and weakness in the theme park business. Page B3
Arts
THE MANCHILD COMETH,
Pee-wee Hits Broadway
Pee-wee is back, boys and girls! The adorable man-child in the skinny suit and red bow tie, the helium-voiced idol of the snark generation, has been sprung from a time machine and has parked his playhouse on Broadway for a spell. Page C1
Sports
A QUESTION OF ELIGABILITY
For Auburn Quarterback
The eligibility of the star Auburn quarterback Cameron Newton will likely undergo further N.C.A.A. scrutiny after a series of allegations on Thursday by Kenny Rogers, a recruiter with financial ties to an N.F.L. agent. Page B16
Op-ed
PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A31
DAVID BROOKS PAGE A31

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); SMOKING (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); RIOTS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); HOLOCAUST (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); WORLD WAR II (76%); WRITERS (75%); JOURNALISM (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); TERRORISM (73%); BONDS (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (69%); CATS (66%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (66%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); JEWS & JUDAISM (63%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (50%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (80%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (66%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (64%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (80%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (80%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (80%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (80%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (80%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (66%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (66%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (64%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (69%); GLENN BECK (54%); GEORGE SOROS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (79%) EUROPE (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); IRELAND (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



474 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: Strict Steps Are Unveiled To Tighten British Welfare

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS and ALAN COWELL; John F. Burns reported from London, and Alan Cowell from Paris. Sarah Lyall contributed reporting from London.

 BODY:
LONDON -- A day after central London was shaken by violent protests against government-decreed increases in college tuition, Prime Minister David Cameron's administration braved a potential for further popular unrest on Thursday when it unveiled details of the biggest shake-up in Britain's sprawling welfare system since the years immediately after World War II.
The new measures were described by the government as a step toward mending what it called the country's ''broken society.'' They include an array of changes aimed at eliminating waste and inefficiency in a cradle-to-grave system of welfare benefits for families, the unemployed, the sick and the disabled that has been one of modern Britain's proudest hallmarks, as well as one of its greatest financial burdens.
The measures include tough and politically contentious penalties aimed at what government ministers have described as the ''work-shy'' and ''scroungers'' among Britain's five million long-term unemployed. 
Borrowing partly from American welfare-to-work programs adopted in the 30 years since President Ronald Reagan made overhauling welfare part of his drive for the White House, the Cameron government is proposing a ''three strikes and you're out'' rule for unemployed people who refuse jobs. The proposal, to take effect next year, would strip a $100-a-week job seekers' allowance for up to three years from those who reject three consecutive job offers, with shorter suspensions for those refusing a first and second offer.
Similar penalties would be applied to those who refuse to take part in unpaid community work programs the government plans as part of its efforts to familiarize jobless people with the world of work. The new proposals provide for able-bodied jobseekers to do regular four-week stints of manual labor, at tasks like removing graffiti, sweeping streets or gardening in public parks, as the price of retaining their state allowances -- and, as the government has explained it, to learn basic disciplines like working a 9-to-5 day.
The new measures would also include a strict new medical assessment starting in 2013 for many of the three million people on disability allowances, with the government aiming to save more than 10 percent of the $12 billion it currently spends annually on the program by expunging fraudulent claimants.
Last year, one man who claimed benefits by saying he had to use a wheelchair ended up in court for fraud after he was filmed running around a soccer field as a referee. Dozens of other such cases have been chronicled in Britain's newspapers.
Similar curbs were announced on a range of benefits that filled page after page in a government handout detailing allowances that have proliferated since the late 1940s, when a Labour government set out to build a welfare state founded on the National Health Service, the country's socialized system of medical care, and other measures aimed at protecting and uplifting Britain's working class.
Over decades, despite repeated government pledges to reform the system, it has grown to the point that it now costs taxpayers more than $305 billion a year, nearly five times the annual defense budget, and more than the national budgets for the police and education combined.
The Cameron government had previously announced plans to sharply curtail one of the government's costliest benefits, an $18 billion program that has paid $32.50 a week to every family for a first child, and $21.50 for every subsequent child, until they turn 19. Starting in 2013, any parent earning more than $70,500 a year will lose the benefit payments. Another measure already announced will curb the $32 billion annual cost of government housing subsidies, limiting payments to low-income families to a maximum of $640 a week.
In some cases that British newspapers have highlighted in upmarket London neighborhoods like Kensington, immigrant families have been receiving housing subsidies exceeding $160,000 a year.
The Cameron government has said that the benefits programs are so prolific that billions of dollars go unclaimed because Britons are unaware the programs exist. Examples include funeral payments to those on low incomes; winter fuel allowances of $40 a week for pensioners; a ''bereavement allowance'' of up to $155 a week, for a year, for the death of a spouse or a civil partner; and a tax-free lump sum of $3,200 for those losing a spouse or partner who was under state pension age.
For the governing coalition of Conservatives and Liberal Democrats, now ending their first six months in office after ousting the Labour Party, the welfare reforms are at the center of a harsh austerity program hailed by influential economic bodies like the International Monetary Fund as a pacesetter for cutting growing government deficits across the industrialized world.
By focusing on welfare expenditures that account for nearly a third of Britain's annual budget, the Cameron government aims to save about $30 billion, about 10 percent of its welfare outlays, over the next four years. But the wider cuts in government spending, amounting to $130 billion and averaging nearly 20 percent for most government departments up to 2015, are a huge political gamble. The risks became starker when 50,000 people, mostly students, marched through the Whitehall government district on Wednesday to protest education spending cuts and the stiff increase in college tuition.
The march set off scenes of violence that alarmed many Britons, fearful of a new era of street turbulence on a scale not seen since Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's economic overhaul in the early 1980s. Apprehension has spread as the full impact of the cuts begins to be felt. Labor unions have threatened coordinated strikes aimed at crippling government services. The welfare changes, affecting hundreds of thousands of recipients, could stir more unrest.
After Wednesday's violence, Scotland Yard's chief, Sir Paul Stephenson, said that the 300 officers deployed for the protests had been grossly inadequate, and that his force had been ''embarrassed'' when a hard core of protesters, many wearing ski masks, stormed the Conservative Party's Thames embankment headquarters, shouting ''Tory scum!'' and forcing senior Conservative officials to barricade themselves. The protesters smashed windows, set fires and threw eggs, bottles and other projectiles. A dozen police officers were injured, and a similar number of protesters were arrested.
The violence occurred as Mr. Cameron, 44, arrived in South Korea for the Group of 20 summit meeting of the world's leading economic powers, and he promised a stern response. ''What is not part of our democracy is that sort of violence and lawbreaking,'' he said. On the welfare cuts, he was similarly unyielding, saying the government was committed to changing a situation in which many people lived off benefits because doing so paid better than going to work.
Iain Duncan Smith, the work and pensions secretary, told Parliament that plans to replace about 30 different benefit payments for housing, unemployment, disabilities and other needs with a single payment would improve the lot of millions of recipients by simplifying the system, and, in many cases, give those in genuine need more money, not less.
''There will be no losers,'' Mr. Smith said. Rebutting critics who said that Britain's sluggish climb out of recession had left no jobs for the unemployed to fill, he said government job centers had posted more than a million job vacancies in the past three months.
But there were signs that the government had aroused a formidable opposition among aid groups and unions, which could further galvanize resistance. ''Changes to the benefits system proposed today will expose people to the risk of destitution,'' said Kate Wareing of Oxfam, one of Britain's best-known charities. ''Removing benefits and leaving people with no income will result in extreme hardship for them and their families.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A man scrubbed off graffiti at the Conservative Party offices in London on Thursday, a day after protests against tuition increases. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARL COURT/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PROTESTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); RIOTS (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (74%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (73%); FAMILY (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (70%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (61%); SOCCER (50%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010



475 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: Greater Choice Doesn't Make You Happy

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: The more options you have, the less happy you are, at least if you're a heavy TV watcher, according to a new working paper.

 BODY:
The more options you have, the less happy you are, at least if you're a heavy TV watcher. From the abstract to a new working paper:Standard economic theory suggests that more choice is usually better. We address this claim and investigate whether people can cope with the increasing number of television programs and watch the amount of TV they find optimal for themselves or whether they are prone to over-consumption. We find that heavy TV viewers do not benefit but instead report lower life satisfaction with access to more TV channels. This finding suggests that an identifiable group of individuals experiences a self-control problem when it comes to TV viewing.The paper is by Christine Benesch, Bruno S. Frey and Alois Stutzer.

        
What We're Reading: Obama's Happiness Economists
        
Americans Need a Pick-Me-Up
        
What We're Reading: Believing the Impossible
        
Income and Satisfaction 
        
What We're Reading: Lying Pants

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%) choice architecture; happiness; televisions

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



476 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 293 words

HEADLINE: How Many Bums Did the American People Throw Out?

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Much has been written about anti-incumbent fervor in the midterm election. But aside from a few high-profile races, incumbents actually fared very well.

 BODY:
Much has been written about the American people's decision to throw the bums out in the recent midterm election.
But aside from a few high-profile races, incumbents actually fared very, very well over all. In fact, as John Sides, a political scientist at George Washington University, pointed out, 86 percent of House incumbents appear to have won their general election bids. That's not too shabby.
So what's with all the talk of anti-incumbent fervor? This chart courtesy of Mr. Sides, may shed some light on things.
It shows the percentage of incumbents who ran for House seats and lost each election since 1972. As you can see, yes, the incumbent-win rate was significantly lower this year than in the past. Is 86 percent still impressive? I guess anti-incumbent fervor is in the eye of the beholder.
Professor Sides also looked at some other ways that anti-incumbent sentiment might have shown up in the election results, such as in the margin of wins. He writes:The median percent of the two-party vote won by incumbents was very much in line with the historical average since 1972: 65% in 2010, compared to 68% overall.And there's no evidence that substantially more incumbents chose not to run or were kicked out in the primaries this year, either.
Professor Sides concludes:What is the bottom line? Don't read too much into a few isolated early primaries (see: Robert Bennett) or into polls where vast majorities of Americans disapprove of Congress or even indicate their willingness to vote for the challenger.
Incumbents still dominate congressional elections.

        
Corporation Says It Will Run for Congress
        
Political Dynasties, Addendum
        
Political Dynasties and Competition
        
On Deficit Proposals, a Failure of Will and Not Ideas
        
What We're Reading: Cheap Taxis

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (95%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%) election; incumbent reelection advantage; John Sides; politics; United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (58%)

PERSON: ROBERT BENNETT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



477 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: The Estate Tax and the Laffer Curve

BYLINE: RICHARD H. THALER


HIGHLIGHT: An economist follows up on reader and blogosphere responses to his recent column on the estate tax.

 BODY:
Richard H. Thaler is a professor of economics and behavioral science at the Booth School of Business at the University of Chicago.
My Economic View column last Sunday was about the estate tax, a treacherous topic on two counts.
First, it is hard to get all the details right, especially since some of them are not yet known. Second, lots of people have strong opinions about this subject, and many of them write to you. After digesting all the e-mails -except for those written in ALL CAPS, which I have learned to delete without reading - I have a few thoughts to add to my column.
First, let's (try to) get the facts straight. An estate tax expert, Vince Lackner, wrote a nice note on some points I made about the estate tax that are open to interpretation:"1) 2011 Exemption. The sixth paragraph in your article refers to the 2001 exemption ("applicable exclusion amount") of $1,350,000 [$675,000 for each spouse]. Several paragraphs later, you refer to the first of three courses that Congress might take ("Do nothing and go back to the 2001 exemption and rates"). This reference implies that the applicable exclusion amount in 2011 would be $1,350,000. In fact, it is generally believed that this amount will be $2,000,000 ($1,000,000 for each spouse). This is the level that the applicable exclusion amount would have reached in 2006 if EGTTRA had never been enacted.
(footnote 2 here)
2) Carryover Basis in 2010: Your article states that "[t]here are new filing provisions in 2010 for any estate with more than $1.3 million in unrealized capital gains." In fact, as we understand it, a new form will be required for any estate whose date-of-death value for all property previously reportable on a 706 exceeds $1.3 million. Thus, you could have an estate worth $1,300,001 at death, with a carryover basis of $1,300,000 (thus, an unrealized capital gain of only $1), and still be subject to the filing requirement."Did I mention that the estate tax is complicated? And note that even experts are tempering their opinions with phrases like "as we understand it".
I also got some e-mails on the substance of my piece and on two blog posts of interest.
David Friedman notes that the capital gains tax should really be indexed to inflation, and that part of those unrealized capital gains are just attributable to the falling value of the dollar. This is a fair point, and I completely agree that as a matter of principle, the capital gains tax should take account of inflation. But it doesn't, and no one in Congress is proposing to fix that.
Then on this site my University of Chicago colleague Casey Mulligan complains that I have things backwards.
Professor Mulligan thinks that the combination of a high exemption and a high tax rate is especially distortionary. He notes that: "Taxes affect behavior, because taxpayers take steps to pay less tax. As a result, every tax dollar brought into the public treasuries harms the private sector more than a dollar, and the amount of extra harm depends on the marginal tax rate."
It seems to me that this analysis is incomplete. Suppose that we are considering two versions of the estate tax. Version 1 is the Obama proposal: A 45 percent tax with a $7 million exemption. Version 2 has no exemption but a much lower tax rate that is estimated to bring in the same revenues. Which causes more distortions?
I would argue that Version 2 is worse because every estate would have to deal with it, no matter how small, whereas in Version 1 only three estates in a 1,000 have to file an estate tax return. Since there are fixed costs to dealing with the estate tax, these need to be considered as well.
Of course, I agree with Professor Mulligan that, generally speaking, we should aim for broader bases and lower tax rates. For example, we could immediately cut income tax rates if we got rid of the home mortgage and charitable giving deductions. I would favor this, but does anyone in Congress?
I have thought about whether the 45 percent tax rate might be so high that it is on the downward sloping part of the Laffer Curve, that is, past the point where revenues are maximized.
Arthur Laffer's idea, that lowering taxes could increase revenues, was logically correct. If tax rates are high enough, then people will go to such lengths to avoid them that cutting taxes can increase revenues. What he was wrong about was in thinking that income tax rates were already so high in the 1970s that cutting them would raise revenues. George H. W. Bush famously called this Voodoo Economics.
Is it possible that lowering the estate tax rate to, say, 35 percent, could increase revenues?
There is little empirical evidence to go on here, but the experts I have discussed this with seem to think this result is not implausible because people might do less to avoid the tax if the rate were lower.
In evaluating this outcome, however, it is necessary to point out that a lower tax rate would also likely decrease charitable contributions, since donating some of their fortune to charity is one way people avoid paying estate taxes. Readers can judge for themselves what those charitable contributions are worth in the broader context of this debate.
Finally, the point I want to reiterate is that, as far as I know, no one is really proposing something that will completely eliminate the tax burden created when an affluent person dies. For estates with more than $1.3 million but less than $7 million, 2010 may turn out to be not the best year to die. And trying to find the original purchase price of goods obtained a long time ago will not be a bundle of joy for anyone.

        
Estate Tax Hiatus Could Reduce Charitable Bequests
        
Letting the Estate Tax Die
        
What We're Reading: Estate Tax T.V.
        
What We're Reading...
        
Economics of Haiti Aid Efforts

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ESTATE TAX (94%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (83%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); US DOLLAR (60%) charities; estate tax; Laffer Curve; Richard H. Thaler; taxes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



478 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Freakonomics)

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: Why Isn't Mexico Rich?

BYLINE: STEPHEN J. DUBNER


HIGHLIGHT: That's the question asked by U.C.-San Diego economist Gordon H. Hanson in a new working paper.

 BODY:
That's the question asked by U.C.-San Diego economist Gordon H. Hanson in a new working paper (abstract here; PDF here). From the abstract:Over the last three decades, Mexico has aggressively reformed its economy, opening to foreign trade and investment, achieving fiscal discipline, and privatizing state-owned enterprises. Despite these efforts, the country's economic growth has been lackluster, trailing that of many other developing nations. In this paper, I review arguments for why Mexico hasn't sustained higher rates of economic growth. The most prominent suggest that some combination of poorly functioning credit markets, distortions in the supply of non-traded inputs, and perverse incentives for informality creates a drag on productivity growth. These are factors internal to Mexico. One possible external factor is that the country has the bad luck of exporting goods that China sells, rather than goods that China buys. I assess evidence from recent literature on these arguments and suggest directions for future research.And, in case you were wondering, here's an important footnote:The growth of the drug trade may distort GDP figures for Mexico. It is likely that value added in cultivating and exporting marijuana and opium, manufacturing and exporting methamphetamine, and distributing cocaine from South America to the United States is not fully represented in the country's national income accounts.

        
How Much Do Rich Countries Help Poor Ones?
        
If You Think You've Got Health-Care Problems ...
        
Abortion and Anti-Poverty in Mexico
        
The Malaria Wars: Sonia Shah Answers Your Malaria Questions
        
Sesame Street, Nigerian Style

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); MALARIA (70%); PRODUCTIVITY (69%); COCAINE (66%); OPIUM (66%); METHAMPHETAMINE (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%) development; Mexico; poverty

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



479 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: Tell Us About Your Worst New York Apartment

BYLINE: CONSTANCE ROSENBLUM


HIGHLIGHT: Are you struggling to live comfortably in New York's rental market? Share your stories and photos of illegal apartments, sixth-floor walk-ups and long commutes.

 BODY:
Nic LaFrance, a 20-year-old aspiring model and actor who moved to New York last summer, spent his first months in the city living with two men and a woman in a studio they sublet above an upholstery store in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. The space, small to begin with, was so jampacked with furniture, the roommates barely had space to move around.
"Plus many people, one bathroom," said Mr. LaFrance, who had moved to New York from Minneapolis. "My old bedroom at home was larger than our entire space.
"It was pretty insane, or maybe I should say a disaster," added Mr. LaFrance, who paid $600 in rent. "It just goes to show that what twentysomethings will do to live in New York is quite amazing." 
But it never occurred to him not to move to the city.
"I'm a working model, and I wanted to get myself out there," Mr. LaFrance said. "I realize it sounds super cheesy, but I came here to chase the dream, like everyone else."
Mr. LaFrance is one of many twentysomething New Yorkers who struggle these days to live well, or even adequately, in New York. Facing persistent unemployment and high housing costs, many of them live in tiny spaces with multiple roommates. They pay large shares of their income (when they have an income) for rent and commute long distances to work and play.
Yet still they come, drawn to New York like so many young people before them, to find work and to find one another.
This weekend's Real Estate cover story profiles several twentysomething New Yorkers who are making it work. Are you struggling to live comfortably in New York's rental market? Share your stories of illegal apartments, sixth-floor walk-ups and long commutes in the comments box below. Or submit a photo of your less-than-desirable digs here. 
By submitting to us, you are promising that the content is original, doesn't plagiarize from anyone or infringe a copyright or trademark, doesn't violate anybody's rights and isn't libelous or otherwise unlawful or misleading. You are agreeing that we can use your submission in all manner and media of The New York Times and that we shall have the right to authorize third parties to do so. And you agree to the rules of our Member Agreement, found online at http://www.nytimes.com/ref/membercenter/help/agree.html.

        
When Money Alone Doesn't Qualify a Buyer
        
Senator Gillibrand's Hudson Valley House on the Market
        
What You Wouldn't Do if You Could Do It Again 
        
Dueling Developers Reach a Settlement
        
When Apartment Hunters Heed Their Noses

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (73%); PLAGIARISM (69%); LIBEL & SLANDER (67%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (62%); TRADEMARK INFRINGEMENT (60%) real estate; rent; rental buildings; Renting and Leasing; Buildings and Landmarks; Highlights; Housing & Economy; Manhattan; People & Neighborhoods

COMPANY: APARTMENT HUNTERS (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7299 MISCELLANEOUS PERSONAL SERVICES, NEC (50%)

PERSON: KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



480 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010

SECTION: BUSINESS; legal

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Tudor Jones Questions Fed's Bond Buying

BYLINE: ANITA RAGHAVAN


HIGHLIGHT: Paul Tudor Jones says fixing the misalignment of the renminbi against the dollar would do more to lower unemployment than buying bonds.

 BODY:
Paul Tudor Jones, the successful currency trader, says that fixing the "gross misalignment" of China's currency against the dollar would do more to lower unemployment in the United States than the recent move by the Federal Reserve to buy large quantities of Treasury bonds.
Mr. Tudor Jones is the second prominent figure in the hedge fund world to question the effectiveness of the Fed's "quantitative easing" effort.
On Thursday, DealBook reported that David Einhorn, the president of Greenlight Capital, called the Fed's move "perverse" and said there was a high degree of risk that it would create another asset bubble.
"The developed world, and the United States in particular, is suffering an economic malaise the likes of which we've seen only rarely in the last 100 years," Mr. Tudor Jones said in a 14-page letter to investors that was dated Oct 21. "Policy makers are searching for solutions but they are too focused on the painful symptoms of unemployment to see the misshapen structure causing it."
In his view, the real culprit is the undervaluation of the Chinese currency, the renminbi, against the dollar which he believes has led to the loss of millions of jobs in the United States. That in turn, he says, has contributed "to the most unsustainable economic imbalance in the world today - China's persistent bilateral trade surplus with the United States."
Mr. Tudor Jones says in the letter that any serious attempt to address the structural imbalance in trade between China and the United States "is met with a chorus of boos from financial industry pundits who rail against 'protectionism,'" lobbing into the fray "the most dangerous of words: 'Trade War.'"
"But what they fail to see, or neglect to acknowledge, is that in modern times there has never been free trade with China," he writes. "The U.S. has already been in a trade war for nearly two decades; and it is the only time in this nation's history it surrendered without ever firing a shot. The United States lost six million jobs, indebted itself to China by $1.4 trillion, and received in return a host of consumer goods, many of which now reside in landfills across the country."
In the letter, Mr. Tudor Jones said he had asked the modeling and forecasting firm Macroeconomic Advisors to test the effect of two different policy fixes for America's unemployment problem. The conclusion? Large-scale asset purchases like the one the Fed recently announced will have a "minimal impact on unemployment that completely fades to zero by 2015," he said.
But a revaluation of renminbi and the currencies of associated trading partners could add an estimated three million jobs in the United States and lower the unemployment rate by 1.4 percent
A revaluation could also have other beneficial effects, the most important being the avoidance of the creation of other bubbles in assets like precious metals, stocks and bonds, Mr. Tudor Jones said.
Funny but it seems like hedge fund chiefs who seem to have the most to gain from assets bubbles because they can nimbly whiz in and out of markets, capturing short-term gains, are among those who are most worried about the creation of a new bubble.

        
Pimco Chief: Fed's Move Is 'Not Enough'
        
With Recovery Slow, Fed to Buy $600 Billion in Debt

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BONDS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); PROTECTIONISM (74%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); TRADE DISPUTES (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); HISTORY (62%); HEDGE FUNDS (56%); LANDFILLS (50%) dollar; enminbi; Federal Reserve; Paul Tudor Jones; quantitative easing; Jones, Paul Tudor; US Dollar (Currency); Federal Reserve System; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (84%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: Jones, Paul Tudor

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



481 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: Water Deals Heighten Concern for Farms

BYLINE: FELICITY BARRINGER


HIGHLIGHT: The latest transfer of water from farmers in California's San Joaquin Valley to nearby developers raises anew the issue of whether, and how, taxpayer-subsidized water rights should be sold.

 BODY:
Two farmers in California's San Joaquin Valley are proposing to do with their water what farmers around the country have done for decades: sell it to developers. 
The farmers pay a maximum of $500 per acre-foot of water from the state water project, KFSN-TV reported. But the Tejon Ranch is paying the farmers $5,850 an acre-foot, meaning that the sellers will net $11.7 million. (An acre-foot is generally considered the amount of water two average households use annually.) 
The fields, within the Dudley Ridge Water district, a small 30,000-acre area in southern Kings County, northeast of Los Angeles, produce fruit and nut trees - pomegranates, pistachios and the like. 
Farms in the district have been the source of large water transfers to developers before. 
One local legislator has been a vocal opponent of long-term transfers of water from farms to cities. Last year, after a separate sale of 14,000 acre-feet for $73 million to the Mojave Water District, which serves cities in San Bernardino County, State Assemblyman Juan Arambula told The Fresno Bee, "What am I going to tell folks when farmers sell their water and put farm workers out of a job and they make millions at the public's expense?"
Mr. Arambula introduced a measure to prohibit long-term farm-to-city water transfers. It failed. 
Farmers in the region have complained bitterly about water cutbacks from the state system in recent years; the cutbacks were necessitated by droughts and court decisions requiring more water be left in northern California rivers to improve the habitat for endangered fish like the tiny Delta smelt. 
An $11 billion bond issue has been proposed to enhance the existing water delivery system and help farmers, but the vote was postponed. 
Water managers in rural areas argue that without a consistent supply of water, farmers face economic chaos, if not ruin. Among other things, they cannot be sure of the viability of longer-term crops like fruit and nut trees. Annual crops like tomatoes can be abandoned for a year and the fields left fallow, but trees must be watered in wet years and dry ones. So they say they need the option of selling their rights.
At the same time, it is inevitable that the push for new development, which is expected to resume if the economic recovery picks up speed, will mean a search for water rights for homes and industry. Some investors have long dreamed of an unfettered water market, but if that dream is realized, some agricultural areas will probably wither.
The latest sale brings that trade-off back into focus. The Tejon Ranch, most of which has been preserved in a major conservation deal that I wrote about in 2008, covers 270,000 acres and is the largest privately held swath of land in the state. It was assembled and owned by the Chandler family, long the owners of The Los Angeles Times.
But on the land that was not set aside for conservation purposes, Tejon Ranch plans to build a planned community of 23,000 homes (12,800 single-family detached homes, 6,200 attached condominiums and town homes and 4,000 apartments), called Centennial, a smaller resort community called Tejon Mountain village, and an industrial park.
The notion of taking water provided specifically to agriculture and selling it for a 10-fold profit to urban and suburban development is only going to get more controversial.
"The transaction set off a passionate debate in the region," Diana Peck, executive director of the Kings County Farm Bureau, was quoted as saying in a report in The Fresno Bee on the Mojave District sale. 
"There are those that say they should not be able to sell their water when there are others who desperately need it," she said. "But some people feel as a landowner, it is their right to sell that water."

        
For California, a Rebuff on 2 Pollution Plans
        
Rising Seas and the Groundwater Equation
        
Las Vegas's Worried Water Czar 
        
Think Globally, Compromise Locally
        
For Parched Farmers, a Crop of Electrons

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WATER RIGHTS (91%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (90%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); FISHES (86%); AGRICULTURE (78%); FRUIT & NUT FARMING (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); DROUGHT (78%); FARM LABOR (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (68%); BONDS (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (66%); LEGISLATION (65%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (63%); BOND ISSUES (63%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (63%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%) Delta smelt; Dudley Ridge Water District; Juan Arambula; Mojave Water District; San Joaquin Valley; Tejon ranch; water rights; Business; Politics and Policy

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



482 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(T Magazine)

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; travel

LENGTH: 2026 words

HEADLINE: Hello, Columbus

BYLINE: TIM MURPHY


HIGHLIGHT: How the Ohio city became a Midwestern gay mecca.

 BODY:
Lean, tattooed and hunky in the way of a young Henry Rollins, Brian Reaume is living the life of a gay indie Brooklyn or Bay Area artist. He lives in what real estate agents call a ''transitional'' neighborhood, in a house filled with midcentury furniture and quirky art by him and his friends. In a small shop on a funky strip of cafes, bars and galleries, he sells his paintings along with the vintage housewares that he collects with the shop's co-owner, Nancy Carlson, who lives upstairs. Two years ago he created ''There's No Truth in Silence,'' an installation in his studio - which is among a warren of artists' spaces in an old warehouse - that drew thousands one weekend with its controversial use of the American flag, a swastika, a cross and a chair emblazoned with the word ''fag.'' 
But the life that Reaume leads isn't in Brooklyn or San Francisco. His tatty-cool neighborhood isn't Bushwick or the Tenderloin; it's Kenmore Park in northeast Columbus, Ohio, in, as he put it to me on a recent visit, ''a very good pocket in the middle of the ghetto.'' And that funky strip with his shop, Birchwater Studios, is North High Street in Columbus's Short North, which has gone from sketchy to stylish in the past 15 years.
Reaume, 37, grew up outside Detroit and 10 years ago was on his way to an artist's life in New York. But his brother, already in Columbus, needed a roommate for a year. So Reaume came - and never left. ''I fell in love with it,'' he told me at his shop. ''There's so much opportunity to show work here.'' Reaume has found a market for his abstract canvases and sculptures along with income as a window-display builder for Victoria's Secret, whose owner, Limited Brands, has its headquarters in Columbus. He's also the father of an 11-month-old son, Thadeus, having been the sperm donor for friends, a lesbian couple, and he lives in a four-room 1948 Lustron ''kit home'' that he bought for $63,000. Rather than move to New York, Reaume said, ''I turned Columbus into New York - and made my environment what I wanted.''
In Ohio's capital city, gay men, lesbians and bisexuals make up about 6.7 percent of the population of about 750,000, according to a 2006 study by the UCLA School of Law's Williams Institute. That's a far cry from more than 10 percent in San Francisco, Atlanta, Boston, Minneapolis and Seattle, but it's higher than most Midwestern cities, including Chicago (5.7 percent). And in several Columbus ''gayborhoods'' - like the Short North, German Village and the lesbian stronghold of Clintonville - the gay quotient is far higher than 6.7 percent. 
That's due in part to Ohio State, the nation's second largest university, with 55,0000 students. The campus, adjacent to the Short North, is a youth-driven city unto itself that draws thousands of young people from all over the Midwest each fall, among them lesbians, gays and transgender students hungry for the relative openness of the city and the campus. (Campus Pride, a national gay college group, just ranked O.S.U. among the nation's gay-friendliest campuses.) ''You have this new crop of hot young guys that come every year,'' said Brent Clevidence, a co-owner of Level, a sleek, year-old restaurant and bar in the Short North that is popular with the gay crowd. ''It's just a very vibrant community.''
Besides Limited Brands (the owner of Henri Bendel and Bath & Body Works as well as Victoria's Secret), Abercrombie & Fitch is also based in Columbus, and both companies lure top design and retail talent - many of them gay - from larger cities. They come and stay for at least a few years, maybe buying a jewel-box Victorian or Craftsman fixer-upper for as little as $200,000. ''We have tons of crossover here from New York and San Francisco, people constantly moving in and out,'' said Chris Hayes, 37, an Ohio native who moved to Columbus after several years in New York City. ''Columbus really turned itself around in the late '90s,'' said Hayes, the editor in chief of Outlook: Columbus, the town's glossy gay monthly. ''We're not recession-proof, but we're not a manufacturing economy, so we've done O.K.'' Four years ago, he paid $281,000 for a 1,400-square-foot loft downtown. ''It's like my New York dream apartment, but it was affordable.''
According to longtime residents, Columbus has long had a robust gay population. But like many other cities in the past two decades, it's become more visible and woven into the town's broader culture and night life. ''When I first started going to the bars, in the '80s, you had to go into blank doorways or down alleyways,'' said Jackie Vanderworth, a stylish, statuesque woman who was holding court one raucous Saturday night at Union, a sprawling restaurant and bar on North High Street. ''Now you have neon signs and people holding hands in the Short North.'' Vanderworth has been openly transgender at her job at the local Fox TV affiliate since 1996. ''They didn't bat an eye,'' she explained of her colleagues' reaction to her gender transition. ''Our news director has me over for dinner parties.''
While life here seems easygoing for gay folks, it's especially so if you learn to love college football. The Ohio State Buckeyes, the reigning Big Ten champion, create citywide mania. ''You can either dive right into the O.S.U. craziness when you move here,'' Hayes said, ''or you can hate your life for six months.'' I was in town on game day - when the Buckeyes, to no one's surprise, trounced small-fry Ohio University, 43-7 - and seemingly everyone in town was wearing scarlet-hued Buckeyes shirts and strings of buckeyes around their necks. That included a dozen members of Scarlet and Gay, O.S.U.'s G.L.B.T. alumni group, plus their friends and lovers, whom I joined at their tailgate party.
''It's pretty much a spiritual experience when you walk in here and see thousands of your brothers screaming like a fraternity,'' said Troy Fabish, a real estate agent with a Buckeye-red pompom bobbing from his jeans pocket. ''You feel like you're part of the family.'' He said he was even comfortable enough for public displays of affection, and kissed his boyfriend to prove it. During the game, the men took no pains to hide their particular enthusiasm, exclaiming their crushes on certain players. Everyone around them seemed happy to have them in the mix. 
That welcoming spirit isn't surprising, given that Columbus is a fairly progressive city, its broad-minded tone set by Michael B. Coleman, the black Democratic mayor since 2000. ''The G.L.B.T. community is important to the city's future and economic vitality,'' Coleman told me, adding that he is working to get the City Council to pass a bill giving health benefits to the domestic partners of city workers. 
The fact that such a benefit, available in more than a dozen states, would be a major step forward is a reminder that Columbus is still a gay oasis in progress, in a state that, though it voted for Barack Obama in 2008, remains deeply conservative in some parts. Ohio attracted national attention during the 2004 election when the state passed a referendum, by a two-thirds majority, banning any version of gay marriage whatsoever. It was a devastating margin to Tom Grote, 46, the son of the founder of the region's 200-store Donatos Pizza chain. ''I totally thought of leaving the state,'' he told me, recalling the hurt of seeing houses with pro-ban signs in so-called liberal Columbus neighborhoods. Instead, he and a handful of other influential Ohio gays founded Equality Ohio, the state's first well-funded gay-rights lobby, focusing on efforts like passing a state bill banning work and housing discrimination against homosexuals.
Grote met Rick Neal, then an advocate for refugee issues in Washington, D.C., in 2006. Today the two live in a refurbished 1907 brick house on Schiller Park in German Village. They're the fathers of 19-month-old Amoret, whom they adopted from a local agency. (Since Ohio forbids gay couples from adopting a child together, Grote is the legal father and Neal has co-custody rights.) Neal said the three of them attracted more gawkers on a recent trip to Germany than they do around town. ''Even in Berlin, Munich - holy cow, their eyes fell out,'' he said. ''Here, we might get a few stares out at the big mall in Easton. But no comments. This is the Midwest - people are polite.'' Grote smiled. ''What makes Rick really proud,'' he said, ''is when African-American women say he does a nice job with Amoret's hair.''
Grote and Neal, a Milwaukee native, said Columbus, with its quaint neighborhoods and network of gay parents, is a perfect fit for them. But it can feel limited if you yearn for the cosmopolitanism of bigger cities. Such is the plight of Gabriel Mastin, 28, a personal stylist at Nordstrom who is known to many as the town's most fashionable young man. The night I met him, Mastin showed up with three of his female friends for dinner at Rigsby's Kitchen, the city's culinary pioneer in the Short North. He wore chunky glasses, a silk scarf tied around his neck, pleated trousers made by his tailor and sneakers by John Varvatos for Converse, and he carried a vintage periwinkle American Tourister airline bag. 
''Columbus isn't awful if you find your niche to plug into,'' he said. ''But it can be tough. It's very Abercrombie-cornfed-jock-I-eat-at-Max-&-Erma's-and-Bob Evans. Some of the older gay men are a little more sophisticated.'' Mastin grew up in Mansfield, Ohio, and told me that his parents have rejected him for being gay. ''We do holidays and birthdays, but that's about it.'' In Columbus, he's found a surrogate family of established, mostly partnered gay men with whom he has thrown himself into activism. Still, he said, ''I want to make major bank and move to London. When I meet someone here who has style, I'm like, 'Who are you? Can we be friends?' '' Most of the time he just tries to get his male Nordstrom clients out of pleated Dockers and into skinny jeans.
Yet Mastin is doing more in Columbus than just biding his time. ''Gay Pride here is amazing,'' he told me over wine and Donatos Pizza at Grote and Neal's house. (Amoret was brought down to say good night in her red Donatos onesie.) ''We get up and dance on boxes with our shirts off every year.''
''Well,'' Grote corrected him, ''maybe every few years.''
ESSENTIALS | Columbus, OhioHotel The Lofts Large, comfortable rooms in a refurbished downtown brick building near the Short North. Bike rentals available. 55 East Nationwide Boulevard; (614) 461-2663; 55lofts.com; doubles from $179.
Restaurants and Cafes German Village Coffee Shop A neighborhood staple since 1981. 193 Thurman Avenue; (614) 443-8900. Jeni's Splendid Ice Creams The hit artisanal ice-cream chainlet, featuring flavors like Salty Caramel. 714 North High Street; (614) 294-5364; jenisicecreams.com. Level Dining Lounge Sleek hangout with margarita martinis and decadent sweet potato fries. 700 North High Street; (614) 754-7111; levelcolumbus.com; entrees $8 to $17. Rigsby's Kitchen The 24-year-old Short North game changer serves top-notch Mediterranean fare. 698 North High Street; (614) 461-7888; rigsbyskitchen.com; entrees $19 to $33. Union Cafe Attracts a gay following with its vaguely Asian decor and menu. 782 North High Street; (614) 421-2233; unioncafe.com; entrees $11 to $20. 
Bars AWOL Hole-in-the-wall gay bar in quiet, less gentrified Olde Town East. 49 Parsons Avenue; (614) 621-8779. Bodega The Short North's mixed-crowd hipster dive. 1044 North High Street; (614) 299-9399. Exile Gay bar popular with the leather crowd. 893 North Fourth Street; (614) 299-0069. Wall Street Nightclub Popular lesbian dance club in the Downtown District. 144 North Wall Street; (614) 464-2800.
Shops Birchwater Studios Brian Reaume and Nancy Carlson's Short North gallery and vintage furnishings store. 815 North High Street; (614) 598-1830; birchwaterstudios.com. Collier West Stylish home goods and antiques shop in the Short North. 787 North High Street; (614) 294-9378; collierwest.com.

        
Soft Serve | Vuitton Roses, Conde Nast's Ferrari Magazine, Abercrombie to the Rescue
        
The Light Fantastic
        
Native Son
        
They Must Be Giants
        
Cocoa Beach

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); SCULPTURE (78%); PAINTING (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%) abercrombie & fitch; Bath & Body Works; Brian Reaume; Columbus; Henri Bendel; Limited Brands; T Travel Winter 2010; UCLA; Victoria's Secret; Travel

COMPANY: VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (76%) OHIO, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



483 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Freakonomics)

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2360 words

HEADLINE: Your Tax Questions, Asked and Answered (by a U.S. Treasury Official)

BYLINE: STEPHEN J. DUBNER


HIGHLIGHT: Given the massive uncertainty about the near (and long-term) future of the U.S. tax code, we recently invited Michael Mundaca, the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Tax Policy, to field questions from Freakonomics readers. You asked about everything from offshore tax shelters to the messy estate/death tax situation; here are his answers. A big thanks to all.

 BODY:
Given the massive uncertainty about the near (and long-term) future of the U.S. tax code, we recently invited Michael Mundaca, the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Tax Policy, to field questions from Freakonomics readers. You asked about everything from offshore tax shelters to the messy estate/death tax situation; here are his answers. A big thanks to all.Q.Is this really a good year to die - tax wise? And do you expect an uptick in deaths as the calendar year ends? Have we ever seen a similar incentive to die, and did it spur deaths? - Drill-Baby-Drill Drill Team
When will congress straighten out the estate tax mess so that people will know how to plan? - n bergmanA.In general, I wouldn't think any year is a good year to die, but you are correct that, under current law, the estates of those who die in 2010 are not subject to the estate tax. However, not being subject to the estate tax is not advantageous to all estates and heirs. Under 2009 law, $3.5 million of each estate was essentially exempt from the estate tax, but the heirs receiving property from such an estate nevertheless received assets with a "stepped up" tax basis, meaning that when such assets were sold, tax would be due only on any appreciation during the time the heir held the asset. For example, assume that someone died with an estate valued at $3 million dollars, all in stock, which passed to one non-spouse heir. Assume that the decedent had paid $1 million for the stock. If the decedent died in 2009, no estate tax would be due (because the estate is worth less than $3.5 million), and the heir's basis in the stock would be increased to $3 million. Thus, if the heir immediately sold the stock, no capital gains tax would be due either, as there would be no gain. If instead that same person died in 2010, again no estate tax would be due, because it has been allowed to expire, but if the non-spouse heir immediately sold the stock received, capital gains tax would be due, because the value would exceed the basis. The Administration has proposed extending the estate tax (and the related gift and generation skipping taxes) at 2009 parameters (for the estate tax, an exemption amount of $3.5 million and a top rate of 45 percent). We are hopeful that Congress will address the estate tax before year end.Q.Has anyone figured out exactly how it is going to work for same-sex married couples in community property states like California? My accountant still has no clue - PaulA.Regarding tax issues faced by same-sex married couples in community property states such as California, there are some helpful IRS resources, including a Chief Counsel Memorandum issued in May of this year that addresses some tax issues faced by California Registered Domestic partners (the memo is available here). Same-sex couples should consider consulting a tax professional about their particular situation.Q.Does Warren Buffett really pay a lower tax rate than his secretary? Also, why isn't there a financial transaction tax? Wouldn't this serve to rein in speculation, which led to the great recession, as well as improving our federal balance sheet, affording for more stimulus jobs? - frankenduf
Why is unearned income (capital gains) taxed at a lower rate than earned income (salary)? The naive answer is that we need to "encourage" people to commit to long-term investments. But where else would people invest their money? People make long-term investments because that is where the best returns are located. The "encouragement" of a lower capital gains tax rate would only be needed if the returns from long-term investment were worse. - fripperyA.I don't know whether Warren Buffet actually pays income tax at a lower tax rate than his secretary, but it is possible. Under current law, dividends and long-term capital gains are subject to a maximum marginal tax rate of 15 percent, while other income, such as wages, may be taxed up to a maximum marginal rate of 35 percent. (The marginal tax rate is the rate on the last dollar of income. The effective rate, which is the share of income paid in taxes, tends to be significantly lower due to factors like deductions, credits, and lower tax brackets that apply to income below a certain level.) Thus, for example, someone who has $5 million of long-term capital gains would generally pay income tax at a rate no higher than 15 percent on the capital gains, while someone with a salary significantly lower than that, say $100,000, may pay income tax at a rate higher than 15 percent. Also note that, under current law, investment income is exempt from payroll taxes, so that could also lead to lower taxes on investment income.
The arguments in favor of taxing capital gains at a rate lower than that for ordinary income include offsetting the taxation of purely inflationary gains; reducing the tax on risky investment that would otherwise be disadvantaged by the tax system, especially because of the limits on deducting capital losses; and offsetting the "lock-in" effect where high capital gains rates can impede economically desirable asset and portfolio reallocations by imposing a tax on the sale of capital assets that can be deferred to the extent that the assets are not sold. With the exception of a few years following the Tax Reform Act of 1986, long-term capital gains generally have been taxed at preferential rates since 1921.Q.Any new changes as it pertains to required mandatory distributions? Or qualified retirement plan pre-mature distributions? Lots of clients have had to take more out of roll-over IRAs to survive their unemployment thank you - LauraA.There are no new changes for 2010. The longstanding required minimum distribution rules generally require qualified retirement plan and traditional IRA distributions to start shortly after age 70 1/2 and to be completed over an individual's (or an individual's and a beneficiary's) lifetime. These rules reflect the purpose of a tax-favored retirement plan - to provide financial security during retirement, not to allow deferral of income tax on retirement assets indefinitely.
In contrast, the premature distribution rules are generally designed to encourage preservation of these assets until retirement. When qualified plan or IRA assets are taken out prematurely, the law imposes an extra 10 percent tax that recaptures part of the tax savings that result from the deferral of tax on plan and IRA contributions and earnings. Without such rules, retirement plan assets could be used at any time for any purpose, and retirement plans would become little more than vehicles for making deductible contributions to tax-sheltered accounts.
In response to the financial crisis that began in the fall of 2008, Congress, on a one-time-only basis, waived the requirement to take a distribution in 2009. In assessing any additional changes to these rules, it is important to balance any short-term benefit against possible long-term effects on retirement security, and on the deficit.Q.Google cuts its tax bill by over $1 billion per year by clearing most of its foreign profits through Ireland and the Netherlands to Bermuda. Is this a good loophole for American corporations by lowering already high corporate tax rates relative to the rest of the world? Would shutting this technique down increase tax revenue or drive business away? - Marty SternA.I can't comment on any particular taxpayer's tax positions or tax strategies, but the Administration is concerned about U.S. companies' shifting of profits out of the United States to avoid U.S. taxes. In our FY2011 Budget, we proposed tightening the tax rules governing the transfer of intangible assets-patents and copyrights, for example-to low-tax jurisdictions, which is a strategy some businesses use to inappropriately reduce their U.S. tax bills. Addressing it as we have proposed would make it harder to shift profits overseas to avoid U.S. tax and thereby increase U.S. tax revenues.Q.Having paid a minor differential due to the AMT in two separate years, two things have stuck in my mind regarding AMT: first, it seems to be in implementation, more or less the "flat tax" Grover Norquist and the like are always gasbagging on about; and second, it doesn't seem like it would have been difficult to tie the cutoff limit to some other federal definition of inflation such as the CPI-U or COLA.
I gather that, in olden times, "the law" as an entity didn't have a good understanding of inflation, but it seems that in the last 50 years, the federal government now has a good institutional understanding of inflation. The question remains, why can't the AMT limits (and the annual process of adjusting other income limits for marginal rates, IRA contributions, and so on) just become automatically tied to some federal measure of inflation? Why does every Congress need to twiddle the dials on these amounts? Is "always having cutoff amounts in political play" some kind of degree of freedom that tax policy horse trading needs? - keithA.The Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) was introduced in 1969, although its current form dates essentially from 1982. As you note, the AMT parameters, unlike many other aspects of the Internal Revenue Code, are not indexed for inflation. Thus, without changes, more and more taxpayers would be subject to the AMT each year. Congress has acted over the years to increase the exemption amount and change other aspects of the AMT, and more recently has enacted one-year "patches" to keep the number of taxpayers subject to the AMT essentially constant. No patch has yet been enacted for 2010, however. The Administration has proposed to eliminate the uncertainty of these year-by-year fixes and provide permanent protection to taxpayers by indexing the parameters for inflation based on the 2009 level. We are hopeful that Congress will address this issue before year end.Q.I work for a (very) small business, namely an unincorporated sole proprietorship. As I understand it, the new healthcare law requires us to issue 1099s for goods purchased in excess of $400. This is a huge hassle, and I have a few questions regarding it.
A. How do we issue a 1099 to an entity that, as far as I know, lacks a TIN (such as our local government for our property taxes)?B. How do we issue a 1099 to an entity that will not reveal their SSN/TIN (such as a seller on e-bay or a non-chain store)?C. How do we issue a 1099 to an entity that we do not have an address for (such as a seller on e-bay or Amazon Marketplace)?D. When we use an intermediary forum to make a purchase, such as Amazon Marketplace, do we issue a 1099 to Amazon, or to the actual vendor?E. Will this in fact generate more revenue than the total amount spent by businesses & the IRS on enforcing this insanity?- Peter
What's this change with the 1099 needing to be sent to corporations (rather than the previous rule, in which you sent it only to sole proprietorships and partnerships)? Does it apply only to businesses, or should every single resident be sending a 1099 to the grocery store and the electric utility next year? - I wonderA.Under the rules currently in effect, businesses have to report payments of $600 or more for services (but not goods) when such payments are made to non-corporate entities such as partnerships and sole proprietorships (but not when they are made to corporations). Starting with transactions in 2012, businesses must report payments of $600 or more for both services and goods to both non-corporate and corporate entities. The new law seeks to increase the information available to the IRS, in order to improve tax compliance. While businesses do not need to start filing information returns on the expanded set of payments until January of 2013, some groups have already raised concerns about the burden that this new provision may impose. As the President has said, it is important to look at whether this burden is too great for businesses to manage. Treasury and IRS are sensitive to these concerns and will look for opportunities to minimize burden and avoid duplicative reporting. Over the last few months, we have been soliciting input from businesses of all types and sizes, as well as their advisors and service providers, regarding how best to implement the law. Already, we have used our administrative authority to exempt from this new requirement business transactions conducted using payment cards such as credit and debit cards. So, whenever a business uses a credit or debit card, no information report will need to be filed, and there will thus be no new burden under the new law. We look forward to gathering input from the business community, and as we proceed with our implementation planning, we won't hesitate to consider alternate approaches, including working with Congress, to address any potential implementation issues that may arise during this process.Q.Is there any way for a taxpayer to get accurate (and up to date) information on where and how my taxes are being spent? I am interested in rather detailed explanations. Not just categories like military, social programs etc. If there is not, why not? I expect those taxing me to be able to track those funds. Transparency. - JerodA.The Administration publishes each year an analysis of the Federal budget, which includes a good deal of detail regarding Federal expenditures and receipts. For the current budget, see here, and for past budgets take a look at this. In the current budget, you can find a lot of detail on precisely how much is spent on each agency and program - from total salaries paid by the Supreme Court to the medical services provided to veterans through the VA, for example - in Table 33-1, available here. In addition, a less detailed pie chart of Federal government expenditures is contained in the instruction booklet for the annual individual income tax return.

        
Baffled By Potential Tax Changes? Us Too. So Bring Your Questions for a Tax Expert
        
When the Rolling Stones Hit the Laffer Curve
        
John Brenkus Answers Your Peak-Performance Questions
        
At Microsoft, Two Views on a New Tax
        
Matthew Kahn Answers Your Climatopolis Questions

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); ESTATE TAX (95%); TAX LAW (94%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ESTATE PLANNING (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); COMMUNITY PROPERTY (89%); GENERATION SKIPPING TRANSFER TAX (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%); MARRIAGE (69%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (60%) Q&A; taxes

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



484 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: DEALBOOK


HIGHLIGHT: Banking, a public utility? | More clues on Goldman's Harbinger exit | What New Yorkers complain about

 BODY:
--Twitternomics -- the top 10 economists on the micro-blogging site by number of followers.
--John Carney says he knows the real reason why Goldman pulled out of Harbinger.
--Facebook thinks it's got a "Gmail killer," and it's set to announce something big Monday.
--Imagine the elevator pitch for this company: "So, it's like vicarious living, but through your teddy bear."
--New York City's secret subway station.
--Paul Krugman's assertion that "economics is not a morality play" seems to have ruffled a few feathers. A piece by Steve Randy Waldman and an editorial from The Economist suggest The New York Times columnist has, in this instance, got it wrong.
--What New Yorkers complain about.
--And for those tired of reading, here's The Guardian's round-up of the business week in pictures.
--Nomura on Ireland.
--Banking -- should it be a public utility
--Graphic: The history of debt/G.D.P. in Britain.
--Tragic Graphic: The decline of Yahoo!
--From Stone Street Advisors: The Rent v. Buy Calculator. (An Excel spreadsheet)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (52%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



485 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Artists Only Need Apply

BYLINE: ANDY NEWMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Also in the Morning Buzz: doubts are raised about bedbug-sniffing dogs; Metro-North chugs past the Long Island Rail Road in ridership; and other regional news.

 BODY:
Here's what we're reading this lovely, crisp morning (high around 60).
As SoHo's iron-boned, sprawling lofts became gold mines over the past two decades, co-op boards, banks, brokers and the city itself winked at the decades-old rule requiring that they be reserved for working artists.
But over the last year or so, something odd began to occur: people - banks, co-op boards and the like - started paying attention to the rule. And last year, for the first time in memory, the city rejected as many applications as it approved, in a cryptic process that mystifies those who have gone through it. The bottom has not dropped out, and the typical artist will still be unable to afford to move in. But the sudden reawakening of the artist-in-residency requirement has shaken up the SoHo real estate scene. [NYT] 
Schools
Cathleen P. Black will face an adversarial teachers' union, falling test scores and frustrated parents and principals, The Times reports. But she tells Cindy Adams of The Post that she is ready and raring to go. 
Meanwhile, the state education commissioner must decide whether to grant Ms. Black the same waiver that her predecessor, Joel I. Klein, needed to be allowed to run the city's schools without educational experience. From many quarters, he is being urged not to. [NYT]
Two days after the Archdiocese of New York warned that 32 schools could close, local school officials and others doubted the likelihood of a reprieve. [NYT]
Housing & Economy
A developer who made a name and fortune fixing up Red Hook, Brooklyn, now has his sights set on Red Hook-ifying a small, depressed town on the western fringe of the Finger Lakes. [NYT]
Doubts have arisen on the vaunted accuracy of bedbug-sniffing dogs, as well as the ethics of their handlers and their affiliated exterminators, who stand to gain from "false positives." [NYT]
Landlords of the Penthouse Club and other strip establishments receive property tax breaks under the city's Industrial and Commercial Incentive Program, The Daily News trumpets on its front page.
Government & Politics
Look out! Representative Edolphus Towns is vowing to hit Republicans with a "little Bed-Stuy" toughness if they start a grand inquisition into President Obama's White House. [Daily News]
Crime & Public Safety
A federal jury in Manhattan was sent home for the weekend by a judge on Thursday after failing to reach a verdict on the second day of deliberations in the case of Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani, the first former Guantanamo detainee to be tried in civilian court. [NYT]
The boss of the Russian spy and heartthrob Anna Chapman was secretly working for the United States government - and the Kremlin has ordered a hit team to kill him in revenge, the front page of The Post tells us.
A limo driver awaiting trial at Rikers Island on a rape charge tried to hire a hit man to kill the victim, using a picture of her from an evidence file, The Daily News reports.
Transportation
Metro-North has passed the Long Island Rail Road in ridership for the first time in nearly three decades. [New York Post]
People & Neighborhoods
Adults take figure skating lessons - at a rink in Long Island City, Queens, for instance - for exercise, stress relief or fulfillment of childhood dreams. [NYT]
A few restaurants and bars are exploring new frontiers in coffee cocktails, which reflect more ambition and thought. [NYT]
The mayor's favorite Upper East Side diner got a C on its recent inspection. [New York Post]
Camel cigarettes is starting a special marketing campaign aimed just at the discriminating smokers of Williamsburg, Brooklyn - including commemorative packs showing the brand's mascot against the backdrop of the Williamsburg Bridge. [Wall Street Journal]

        
To Find New Chancellor, Mayor Extended the Field
        
Holocaust Fund Is Victim of Fraud, Prosecutors Say
        
A Murderer Is Sentenced to Die
        
Portrait of a Demanding Boss
        
Some People Find the Marathon Annoying

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); BED BUGS (88%); REAL ESTATE (74%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (72%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); ETHICS (72%); TEACHER UNIONS (67%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (67%); PROPERTY TAX (64%); JURY TRIALS (63%); VERDICTS (63%); LAKES (62%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); RELIGION (50%) buzz; headlines; Morning Buzz

COMPANY: ALLANFIELD GROUP PLC (52%)

TICKER: ALF (LSE) (52%)

PERSON: CATHLEEN BLACK (66%); BARACK OBAMA (52%); ED TOWNS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



486 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: How Would You Like to Help Our World?

BYLINE: SHANNON DOYNE


HIGHLIGHT: Student Opinion | Do you have any great ideas for projects that would help others?

 BODY:
For the past four years, a New York-based organization called DoSomething.org has been hosting day-long workshops to help young people learn how to pitch their ideas for making the world a better place. What idea would you pitch? What does the world need more of? Less of? How can you and other young people make it happen? 
In the article "Young Activists Practice Their Pitches for Nonprofits," John Hanc reports on a DoSomething.org event recently held in Chicago:The people on the receiving end of the pitches seemed equally impressed: "What an amazing group of young people," said Monica Elenbaas, director of volunteer service and learning for the YMCA of the USA. "You sit around with other 50-year-olds, and they're so cynical. These kids are rolling up their sleeves and doing something."
The Speed Catchers were asked to rate each presentation with a score of 1 to 5, the highest. Webcast viewers were asked to vote online for what they felt were the most impressive presentations.
The three presenters with the highest average scores were Jonathan Bell, Meg Bourne and Christine Schmidt.
Mr. Bell, a 20-year-old from Los Angeles, pitched Global Fast, which described itself on its Web site: "Ending poverty made simple. You make a personal sacrifice and donate the amount you would have spent." Global Fast asks people to give up one meal a month and donate the money they save.
Ms. Bourne, 21, of Joplin, Mo., founded an organization called Art Feeds that helps provide after-school classes and programs in music, art, writing and performing arts for children in disadvantaged communities.
Ms. Schmidt, 15, received the most votes among the Webcast viewers. She won on behalf of the Eco Macs, her environmental club at Mother McAuley high school in Chicago. The group built a solar-powered biodiesel processor for a school in Haiti.
. . . In his thank-you speech, Mr. Bell thundered: "We've heard of the Lost Generation and how they took on World War I. We've heard of the Greatest Generation and how they took on World War II. What is our generation's legacy going to be? I think it's going to be that we took on the war against global poverty and won that war, too." Students: Tell us what you think about the three ideas that had the highest scores. Does the idea of working on any of these projects appeal to you? If not, what would you pitch? Do you agree with Monica Elenbaas, who said that young people are not cynical? Do you currently do any volunteer work? If so, why? You just read that Jonathan Bell thinks your generation's legacy will be ending global poverty. Do you agree? Or do you think the legacy will be something else?
Students 13 and older are invited to comment below. Please use only your first name. For privacy policy reasons, we will not publish student comments that include a last name.

        
Resources on Service Learning and Community Service
        
Pasta + Tacos = Delicious?
        
Political Visits 101
        
Onward and Upward? Documenting Local Economic Conditions
        
Student Challenge Favorite | A Right to Eat

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VOLUNTEERS (89%); WEBCASTS (88%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (86%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CHILD POVERTY (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); CHILDREN (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (69%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (64%); SOLAR ENERGY (62%); WORLD WAR II (60%); WORLD WAR I (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); WEB SITES (51%); BIOFUELS (50%) Community Service; poverty; volunteering; youth; Student Opinion

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL COUNCIL OF YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%); MISSOURI, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (88%); HAITI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



487 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Cracks Emerge in Wall St.'s Show of Unity

BYLINE: HEIDI N. MOORE


HIGHLIGHT: Some remarks by James P. Gorman, Morgan Stanley's chief executive, and a Barclays ad indicate that the financial industry is once again willing to criticize itself.

 BODY:
When politicians and the populace assailed Wall Street during the financial crisis, its top executives kept up a united front, characterized mostly by stoic silence balanced by big and quiet political donations.
But now that the midterm elections have passed, some cracks in Wall Street unity are starting to show. 
Consider a striking ad that Barclays, the British bank that bought Lehman Brothers, is running on television, including on CNBC. The commercial shows well-dressed, well-groomed men preening in boardrooms and smugly checking their reflections in elevators. "We know that bankers tend to be full of themselves," the commercial notes. 
James P. Gorman, the chief executive of Morgan Stanley, struck a similarly skeptical tone about his fellow financial travelers this week at the annual meeting of the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association. Mr. Gorman criticized rich bonuses -- which were often paid for deals that did not pan out -- and Wall Street's ego problem, which he said led to bad decisions.
Mr. Gorman, an Australian native who came to the United States to attend Columbia Business School -- and stayed in finance for the bonuses -- is a former McKinsey consultant and has spent most of his career in strategic roles, with the exception of running wealth management at Morgan Stanley and Merrill Lynch. He has straddled the insider/outsider divide on Wall Street for decades. Barclays, a creature of the City of London, is similarly somewhat removed from Wall Street's clubby culture, even though it employs Lehman's old employees.
Mr. Gorman said that getting Wall Street back on track would require more sensible bonuses, which would accomplish "changing the perception that it is the individual that it is the hero. "
Mr. Gorman indicated that much of the news media's coverage of Wall Street did not help matters. "As an industry, you can have larger-than-life personalities, but individuals don't make these institutions. We've got 62,000 people, and all of them are contributing to it," he said. "The more you have this sort of hero individual status, and lots of things written about them by journalist friends in the paper, the more likely that they are going to act out, because they start to believe it."
And Mr. Gorman mildly took down his fellow Wall Streeters with this comment: "There are a fair number of the senior folks who actually believe they are uniquely qualified on all issues relating to finance. And as we saw, it's just not true."
"This is extraordinarily complex and you need a very large team of capable people to work with you. "
Mr. Gorman's speech could have been just good gamesmanship -- it's almost bonus time at his bank, and he's going to need to fend off bankers insisting on big payouts -- but his speech is also very much in character, not just for him but for Wall Street. 
Still, even as bonus-season dinner-party fodder, Mr. Gorman's remarks are vastly different from this exasperated comment earlier this year from Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan Chase's chief executive, about public criticism of Wall Street bonuses: "I am a little tired of the constant vilification of these people." 
Wall Street has never really been unified -- many still remember the searing battles between bankers and traders that nearly tore apart firms like Lehman Brothers in the 1980s and 1990s. Over the past decade, after the Glass-Steagall Act fell and banks became behemoths of everything from savings accounts to collateralized debt obligations, tensions frequently arose between staid commercial bankers who were paid to lend carefully and investment bankers who were paid to take considerable risks. Such fights contributed to frequent management disagreements and shifting leadership at Bank of America and other "universal" banks. 
For the past three years, many investment bankers who work on mergers and acquisitions or capital-raising for companies have complained privately that they were unfairly lumped in with the quants and C.D.O. jockeys who created complex securities that hurt the economy when they exploded. 
Besides, Mr. Gorman's critical speech and the Barclays ad might be a sign of health, indicating that the financial industry is willing to criticize itself again. The comments from both Mr. Gorman and Barclays were played in finance-heavy forums and directed at others on Wall Street. 
Mr. Gorman, however, did take the time to try to explain why Wall Street still matters:
"There is very little that is Wall Street any more -- the whole financial industry, post Glass-Steagall has largely integrated. But we've clearly lost the battle for the consumer ear to explain why capital is essential to capitalism, why raising, distributing and managing capital is what forces economies to grow What Wall Street has done is to identify great companies, bring them to the capital markets, give them an opportunity to grow by accessing other people's money, and giving them a decent return on it. The world should not assume that you can take out that capital-raising function and everything will just be O.K., because it won't."
That doesn't sound like he's breaking ranks very much after all.

        
2 Pension Funds Sue Morgan Stanley Over Pay
        
Blankfein Gets Bonus of $9 Million in Stock

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (78%); ELECTIONS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); WRITERS (60%) Barclays; Bonuses; Executive Compensation; James P. Gorman; Morgan Stanley; Gorman, James P; Banking and Financial Institutions; Barclays PLC; Barclays PLC|BCS|NYSE; Morgan Stanley|MS|NYSE; Financial Services; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (74%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (69%); MCKINSEY & CO INC (68%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Barclays PLC; Morgan Stanley

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (69%); MS (NYSE) (58%) Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE; Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE; Morgan Stanley; MS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (68%)

PERSON: JAMES GORMAN (92%) Gorman, James P

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



488 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: Afghanistan: Change You Can't Sit and Talk About

BYLINE: JAMES DAO


HIGHLIGHT: "Just giving something to someone is, to me, failed development."

 BODY:
CHAHAR DARA, Afghanistan -- When President Obama gave his major speech on Afghanistan a year ago, he called not only for sending an additional 30,000 American troops to the war, but also for expanding the role of civilian experts in rebuilding the nation's shattered government and economy. A new policy was born: "the civilian surge."
A Year at WarBy JAMES DAO
Some 30,000 American soldiers are taking part in the Afghanistan surge. Here are the stories of the men and women of First Battalion, 87th Infantry.
Scores of experts in farming, banking, judicial issues and small-business creation were recruited and sent to a civilian boot camp in Indiana intended to simulate a war-scarred Afghan city.
A handful wound up in the northern province of Kunduz, a lush region of wheat, rice and cotton farms that is also a strategic gateway to Central Asia. One of them was Eric Imerman, a former Peace Corps volunteer and agriculture expert, whose experiences in Kunduz say much about the uphill struggle facing the surge.
Mr. Imerman, 55, arrived in Kunduz in February. Though the province was considered less violent than the south, one of his first trips off the base ended in a firefight where he was called upon to feed ammunition to a machine gunner.
Over the coming months, he began meeting with farmers and provincial agriculture officials, trying to start demonstration projects intended to improve farming techniques as well as show residents that the government of President Hamid Karzai was trying to improve their lives.
Fear of the TalibanHe arrived at one of his first meetings with a convoy of 5 trucks and about 15 American soldiers, because it was too dangerous for him to travel unprotected. A group of farmers listened patiently to his pitch, but afterward, one of them approached Mr. Imerman and told him not to bring any soldiers the next time.
"If they see you coming with all these soldiers, the Taliban will mark this field as a target, and then we all are going to suffer," the farmer told him. Since he could not travel without security, the project was scrapped.
I met Mr. Imerman under similar circumstances when he visited Chahar Dara, possibly the most restive district of Kunduz province, in September.
He had come to talk to farmers about planting winter wheat along the main road. The meeting started amicably enough. But within minutes, the local representative for the Afghanistan Ministry of Agriculture became anxious. Couldn't the farmers take photographs and measure the fields themselves, then meet with Mr. Imerman somewhere else? The soldiers were making the farmers nervous.
The ministry officials - but not the farmers - agreed to meet with Mr. Imerman at the local police compound, where the American soldiers were based, on the following day. Then Mr. Imerman packed up and left.
While serving in the Peace Corps in the Philippines in the 1980s, he said, "some of the best meetings I ever had with farmers was when you sit down under a shade tree and just talk with them. No agenda, just sit and talk. And you can't do that here."Illiterate and InnumerateLater that same day, Mr. Imerman ventured into the fields directly adjacent to the heavily fortified police headquarters, considered the only secure neighborhood in the district. And there, another obstacle to improving farm production became apparent: the rudimentary nature of local farming techniques.
On one plot, a sharecropper was harvesting mung beans from government-owned land. The farmer and about five of his children were trying to dislodge beans from their stems using brooms, and they seemed to be missing many of them. A few hundred yards away, farmers in another plot chopped at plants using handmade sickles.
Few farmers here use machines, and many do not use fertilizer or pesticides. When they do, they often apply the wrong amounts because they lack the ability to accurately measure their fields. When they guess, Mr. Imerman said, they often apply too much fertilizer, which burns the plants, or too little, which achieves nothing.
Mr. Imerman, a child of Iowa farm country, said he had grappled with premodern farming techniques before while in the Peace Corps. But Afghanistan is particularly frustrating, he said, because so few farmers are literate. Many do not know how to add. And to make matters worse, some farming skills seems to have been lost during 30 years of war.
For instance, he said, local farmers don't use trestles for their grapes, though he believes that they once did. As a result, the grapes are more susceptible to fungus. A community irrigation system also seems to have been destroyed over the course of constant conflict.
Local farmers also seem baffled by the emergence of melon flies, which have destroyed as much as 80 percent of their crop. This region was once the melon capital of Afghanistan, he said, yet farmers seemed clueless about how to use pesticides that might kill the larvae.The 24-Hour SyndromeCrisis, he said, has bred what he calls "the 24-hour syndrome." All they can think about, he said, is: "What is my problem today. It doesn't matter that I've got something that I know is a problem coming down the road. It's my problem today that I want solved."
But perhaps the biggest problem he said he faced was a culture of dependency among Afghan farmers. Many farmers expect to be given something -- machinery, fertilizer, feed or pesticides. But they do not want to learn better farming techniques, he said.
"As far as development goes, just giving something to someone is, to me, failed development," Mr. Imerman said.
When he met again with agricultural officials and farmers in Chahar Dara, they agreed to do a demonstration project next to the police headquarters. It was a start. But to see real progress, Mr. Imerman said, he will have to stay beyond his one-year contract. He increasingly expects to do just that.
Divorced and with a daughter in college, Mr. Imerman signed up for this adventure after losing his job to state budget cuts in Ohio, where he worked for Ohio State University doing development projects in rural areas.
His goal is to achieve in Kunduz what he did in the Philippines, where he helped a rice farmer build a simple thresher that increased production by 20 percent. Within a few years, every farmer in the area had one of the devices and all were living better.
But doing that requires developing the trust of at least one farmer. "If we can show that 'if you do this, this and this, we can increase your production from 300 kilos to 1,000 kilos,' then hopefully everybody will adopt it," he said.
"I'm hoping that works here. But we'll see."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALIBAN (78%); AGRICULTURE (75%); WHEAT FARMING (75%); RICE FARMING (70%); COTTON FARMING (70%); POLICE FORCES (69%); VOLUNTEERS (69%) Af-Pak

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); HAMAD KARZAI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



489 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: 'Cool' Climate Film Takes On 'Truth'

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: A skeptical environmentalist has his big-screen moment.

 BODY:
An earnest non-scientist probing the relationship of people, climate and energy travels the globe describing his menu for avoiding dangerous global warming.
Cameras follow every move. The articulate, energetic man, aided by a skilled filmmaker using evocative imagery, distills a momentous but complicated issue to digestible sound bites, jabs at his ideological and intellectual antagonists and delivers an illustrated lecture to a rapt audience.
This description could easily fit former Vice President Al Gore and the film crew that shot "An Inconvenient Truth." But now it also fits Bjorn Lomborg, the self-described "skeptical environmentalist" who is the focus of (and a co-writer of) "Cool It," a new documentary that is clearly trying to be a counterpunch to the Gore film.
.The prime theme of "Cool It," taken from Lomborg's book of the same name, is that global warming is a serious problem but that raising the cost of polluting forms of energy is a highly inefficient solution.
There are many experts in energy technology who have made this point for a very long time, perhaps most notably Martin Hoffert at New York University in a string of influential papers and Richard Smalley, the Nobel laureate in chemistry who devoted the final years of his life, even as he fought cancer, to describing how advancing energy technologies was the prime imperative of this generation. With the paralysis of the climate treaty process and American legislation capping greenhouse gases, a direct focus on energy innovation as a climate, economic and security strategy is gaining some traction in policy circles.
But these days, celebrity and edge appear to be required ingredients if you want to make a feature-style documentary. Ondi Timoner, a much-lauded documenatarian who directed the film, told The Wall Street Journal she had no intention of making her film on Lomborg an assault on Gore:
I'm a Democrat, I was a page in the U.S. Senate. I'm not against Gore... The anti-'Inconvenient Truth' would say global warming is not happening. The reason I wanted to make the film is the pragmatic solutions that he puts forward... Until alternative energies become less expensive, fossil fuels are never going to go away.... That's my favorite point and I hope that's what people take away from the film.
I hope she's right, although my guess is a lot of viewers will focus on the conflict -- and the jabs at the environmental left -- more than the substance, where it exists. (I know. It's a movie. How dare I ask for substance...)
Lomborg's main prescription, derived in part from his periodic consultations with panels of prominent economists, is to invest heavily in research on non-polluting energy technology and countermeasures to greenhouse heating, collectively known as geo-engineering. (He reprises his geo-engineering push in a forthcoming issue of Time Magazine.)
In his book, Lomborg proposes that a modest carbon tax could pay for all of this work at a fraction the cost of a cap on emissions of greenhouse gases, the approach pursued by Europe under the Kyoto Protocol (and rejected in the United States). 
Does the film succeed? "Cool It" is eminently watchable -- which is no surprise given Timoner's involvement. Lomborg, as always, is charming and persuasive, frequently shown riding his bicycle through Copenhagen's busy streets -- in what has to be seen as a dig at Gore, who in his film is often seen racing through airports.
But it suffers from the same simplification syndrome that weakened "An Inconvenient Truth." 
In that film, for example, Gore breezily concluded by saying, "We already know everything we need to know to effectively address this problem," a phrase he modified in subsequent statements, saying existing technology was sufficient to start on the path to limit warming.
In "Cool It," Lomborg breezily ticks down a laundry list of high-tech ways to engineer the atmosphere, for example, but punts on the tougher questions related to such planet-scale enterprises -- such as the inevitable diplomatic dispute over who sets the planetary thermostat and how blocking the sun does nothing to stem the buildup of carbon dioxide, much of which will stay in the atmosphere for many centuries.
He proposes spending tens of billions of dollars (a bargain, he insists, compared to the hundreds of billions that would be spent on a cap-and-trade style approach), but he doesn't say how he'd convince the United States or China to adopt the necessary carbon tax. 
And he doesn't deal with the full pipeline for innovation that is required to take a promising technology from idea to breakthrough. A greatly intensified research effort is a vital, but insufficient, facet of any plan to foster progress without disrupting the climate.
Its chiding tone in places is unlikely to build the sense of consensus and excitement around an energy quest that Lomborg seems to desire. 
The film makes fun of British students exploring ways to save energy instead of pointing to such students -- and education on the globe's energy challenge -- as a critical component of a strategy to foster progress without overheating the planet.
I would have loved to see Timoner explore the world's energy challenge and opportunities without building her film around the tug of war between liberals and libertarians. I think there's a way, but that's easy for me to say. 
The film is provocative and well worth seeing, and I'm sure it'll have a long life on Netflix. But my guess is that it will end up being another slosh to the shallow pan of public attitudes on climate. 
A more substantive discussion of the policy issues can be found in a recent onstage conversation between Lomborg and Carl Pope, the head of the Sierra Club, following a screening of the film at the Commonwealth Club in San Francisco.
I know. I'm an energy and climate wonk. The most compelling, even exciting, argument I've seen for the United States to engage in a sustained energy quest was that of Richard Smalley. The following video of Smalley making his presentation is funky and grainy, but, to my eye, more compelling than anything brought to movie screens so far. 
.I'll be posting a short interview I did with Lomborg about the film over the weekend, along with an open call for questions for him.

        
Regulators: 'Swindle' Climate Film Unfair but Not Harmful
        
Heat Rises (Again) Over Climate Rhetoric
        
The Gates Path to an Energy Revolution
        
The Case of the Missing Climate Pledge
        
Filling the Global Energy Research Gap

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); MOVIE FILMING (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); CELEBRITIES (74%); CHEMISTRY (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); WRITERS (69%); NOBEL PRIZES (65%) Climate Change; climate skeptics; energy; film; global warming; gore; lomborg; media; r&d; schneider; communication; entertainment

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

PERSON: AL GORE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



490 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Liberals Fear Obama Is Caving on Their Agenda

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama faces a liberal constituency that is disappointed about the lack of progress on their core issues and quick to jump to negative conclusions.

 BODY:
Halfway through his four-year term, President Obama faces a liberal constituency that is disappointed about the lack of progress on their core issues and quick to jump to negative conclusions about his motives.
That reality was on full display Thursday as liberal activists immediately seized on comments by David Axelrod, the president's top political adviser, who had seemed to suggest the president's willingness to concede the upcoming tax fight with Republicans.
The Huffington Post website, which had interviewed Mr. Axelrod, screamed "WHITE HOUSE GIVES IN ON BUSH TAX CUTS" in bright red, 33-point type. Across the Internet, the president's stuaunchest supporters threatened to walk.
"If President Obama caves to the Republicans on the tax cuts, I am gone," said one Twitter message. Another predicted that "if he caves on the tax cuts, he will not be reelected." A third pleaded: "Tell Obama to stop caving and start fighting." Another added: "I'm devastated if Obama caves in to the GOP. The BUSH TAX CUTS MUST EXPIRE!! Please stop the madness."
And on it went. Liberals already frustrated with Mr. Obama over climate change, gay rights, Guantanamo Bay, Afghanistan, the deficit and health care seemed to snap a little bit at the suggestion that the president was in a compromising mood.It was not much different on cable television. Liberal talk show hosts berated the president for not drawing a line in the sand on the Bush tax cuts with the newly empowered Republicans in Congress. 
"You could also see the compromise as pure caving," MSNBC's Rachel Maddow wrote on her blog. "Whatever happened to the idea of calling the GOP's bluff, of giving them a whiteboard and a marker and asking them to start finding the $700 billion they'll need to cover the tax cuts for America's wealthiest citizens?"
The White House insisted all day long that Axelrod had been misunderstood, that he was not saying anything more than the president had said last week: he's open to some compromise that would achieve his main goal of locking in lower tax rates for the middle class.
At a news conference in Seoul, South Korea overnight, Mr. Obama reiterated that position: "My number-one priority is making sure that we make the middle-class tax cuts permanent, that we give certainty to the 98 percent of Americans who are affected by those tax breaks."
"I continue to believe that extending permanently the upper-income tax cuts would be a mistake and that we can't afford it," Mr. Obama added. "And my hope is, is that somewhere in between there we can find some sort of solution."
Privately, White House officials fumed that the original headlines about Mr. Axelrod's comments were overblown and did not reflect the senior adviser's meaning. "I didn't say anything we haven't said before," he wrote in an email.
The fact that his denials seemed not to matter much in the liberal community was a testament to the current, frenetic, headline-grabbing media environment. But it is also a reflection of the broader angst in the liberal community about Mr. Obama and his administration.
In stark contrast to the hope they expressed in him two years ago, many of the liberal community's activists regularly complain that their most fundamental issues remain largely unadressed. Many of those issues appear to have little hope of resolution in the next two years. 
For example, Mr. Obama went to a global climate change conference in Copenhagen last year armed with a vote in the House but stalled legislation in the Senate. In his post-election news conference, Mr. Obama all-but acknowledged that broad climate change legislation is dead for the balance of his term. 
Efforts to repeal the military's "don't ask, don't tell" ban on openly gay service appears unlikely to pass this year and even less likely once Republicans take over the House in January. And news came this week that the war in Afghanistan will likely stretch into 2014.
Mr. Obama has said that immigration reform will require cooperation with the Republicans, not a partisan fight. And the looming fight over entitlements - which the president's debt commission brought into sharp relief on Thursday - has some liberals convinced that Mr. Obama is prepared to compromise too much there as well.
And even on one of the left's pet issues which Mr. Obama aggressively and successfully pursued - health care - people in the the left wing of his party remain disappointed that he did not push harder for a public option. 
Moderate Democrats, who were also a key part of the coalition that helped sweep Mr. Obama into office, are openly worried that the liberal carping might have an effect on the president and the administration.
In a memo released before the election, Third Way, a middle-of-the-road think tank with ties to the White House, predicted that liberals would try to pull Mr. Obama in their direction after the election. But they warned that doubling down on liberal policies would have dire consequences for the Democratic party.
"By rejecting the big-tent coalition that brought them power in the first place, the only things Democrats will accomplish are permanent minority status and the frustration of their legislative priorities," wrote Jon Cowan and Anne Kim, the authors of the Third Way memo.
In his comments to Huffington Post, Mr. Axelrod appears to have heard that argument. 
His bottom line, as told to the web site's reporters: "We have to deal with the world as we find it."

        
Aide's Comments Cause Stir as White House Discusses Tax Strategy
        
Lott and Daschle Offer Advice on Getting Along
        
Obama Recasts Asia Trip as Jobs Mission
        
Democrats See Opening in Alaska's Scrambled Race
        
Obama to Appear on 'Daily Show' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LIBERAL MEDIA (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); INCOME TAX (70%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (61%); GAYS & LESBIANS (51%); LGBT RIGHTS (51%) barack obama; CONSERVATIVES; Democrats; economy; liberals; Republicans; Congress; Elections; The 44th President; The White House

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); DAVID AXELROD (79%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (67%) UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (75%); CUBA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



491 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: Obama: Pelosi an "Outstanding Partner"

BYLINE: SHERYL GAY STOLBERG


HIGHLIGHT: In Seoul, the president gives his blessing to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who is seeking the top minority position in the new Congress.

 BODY:
SEOUL - President Obama on Friday gave his tacit endorsement to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's bid to stay on as Democratic leader after January, calling her "an outstanding partner for me.''
Mr. Obama was asked during a news conference here whether he believes the Democratic Party needs new leadership in the wake of the Election Day trouncing that cost Democrats control of the House. At first, he did not reply directly, though he ultimately did seem to give Ms. Pelosi his blessing.
The House speaker has said she will run for minority leader, even though she does not have the support of some moderates in her own party.
"I think that what we will naturally see is a whole bunch of talented people rise to the top as they promote good ideas that attract the American people when it comes to jobs and investment and how to grow the economy and how to deal with our challenges,'' the president said. "I think Speaker Pelosi has been an outstanding partner for me. I think Harry Reid has been a terrific partner in moving some very difficult legislation forward. And I'm looking forward to working with the entire leadership team to continue to make progress on the issues that are important to the American people.''

        
Honoring the President's Mother
        
A Presidential Visit Under the Volcano
        
Volcano Is No Deterrent to Presidential Visit
        
The President Plans a Post-Mortem
        
Rahm Moments (Rated PG)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (57%) obama; Pelosi; The Caucus

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (93%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); HARRY REID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



492 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: Medicare's Soviet Label

BYLINE: UWE E. REINHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: While the Medicare fee structure is dictated by the government, not the market, it is a legacy of Republican administrations, an economist writes.

 BODY:
Uwe E. Reinhardt is an economics professor at Princeton. He has some financial interests in the health care field.
"Medicare, Where Soviet Economic Thinking Lives On," was the headline on a recent blog offering commentary on an article about Medicare pricing in The Wall Street Journal, accompanied by a videotaped, highly critical interview on The Journal's "Online Opinion."
The article and the video are focused on Medicare pricing of physician services. But the Soviet label can also be affixed to Medicare's pricing for hospital care.
Joseph Antos, the widely respected Wilson H. Taylor Scholar in Health Care and Retirement Policy at the American Enterprise Institute, agrees with the Soviet label. "Medicare ignores the market, setting prices for physician services based on an academic theory with its roots in the Soviet Union," he wrote in his "Confessions of a Price Controller."
Dr. Antos writes with authority on this issue. As he acknowledges in the piece, he oversaw both the academic study leading to this pricing system for physicians and its subsequent implementation.
I find it hard to disagree with Dr. Antos. Medicare fees are administered prices, set by a central government for the entire country. And that is Soviet economics.
So naturally one is led to ask: Who imported this fiendish Soviet pricing theory to the United States and imposed it on Medicare?
It was the administration of President Ronald Reagan, with the concurrence of a Congress controlled by the Democrats.
The Reagan administration acted after it became alarmed at the inflationary force inherent in a payment mechanism adopted by Medicare at its inception, at the behest of the hospital industry: retrospective, full-cost reimbursement of each hospital for its reported costs.
After exploring a number of alternatives, most of them probably not politically feasible, the Reagan administration and Congress decided to switch, during 1983-86, to set, centrally administered prices. It's hardly likely that the Reagan administration or Congress thought themselves inspired by Soviet theory, a notion that has been advanced more recently. These policy makers just thought the new system made more economic sense.
Most health economists - including me - saluted the switch, believing it would lead to more efficient hospital management. Hospital executives took a less kindly view, because it signaled the end of the Golden Era of hospital management.
The new payment system for hospitals used case-based bundled payments for "diagnostically related groupings" of inpatient cases, each with roughly similar reported costs and with a small and tolerable variance of actual costs per case around average costs for that case. The system is now known simply as the D.R.G.'s. It started with about 535 distinct D.R.G. cases and now has 745.
The D.R.G. system had its origin in pioneering research by Profs. John D. Thompson and Robert Fetter of Yale. They intended the D.R.G. classification to be mainly a management tool, a basis for managerial cost accounting and cost control commonly used in other industries.
It soon dawned on policy makers, however, that the D.R.G. classification could also be used as a basis for paying hospitals. That idea was successfully tested in the early 1980s in New Jersey and was put into effect nationwide in 1983.
In the words of Prof. Rick Mayes of the University of Richmond, who has chronicled the genesis of the D.R.G.'s in a fine paper: "The change was nothing short of revolutionary. For the first time, the federal government gained the upper hand in its financial relationship with the hospital industry." Indeed, that revolutionary innovation has by now been widely copied around the world, first in Australia and France, and subsequently in Germany and several other countries.
The Medicare fee schedule for physicians -- the actual focus of the article in The Wall Street Journal -- was introduced in 1992, by the administration of George H.W. Bush.
Dr. Antos confesses to having been part of its genesis. I confess that I, too, played a bit part, in my capacity as an appointed commissioner on the Physician Payment Review Commission, established by Congress. The commission unanimously recommended the adoption of the new payment system to Congress at the beginning of the 1990s.
The new Medicare fee schedule was based on research financed by the Reagan administration during the 1980s and conducted jointly by Prof. William Hsiao of Harvard and the American Medical Association. It was implemented in 1992 by the Bush administration, along with what was, in effect, a national budget for Medicare's total payments to physicians, then known as the "volume performance standard," and modified in 1997 to what is called the S.G.R. system, for "sustainable growth rate."
This new payment system for physicians replaced a highly dubious mechanism under which Medicare paid each doctor his or her "customary, prevailing and reasonable" fees, a clone of the "usual, customary and reasonable" system then widely used by private health insurers. It was a bewildering, computer-intensive system, with several filters based on each physician's own charge profile for each service during the previous year, along with frequency distributions of fees for each service by all physicians in the physician's market area.
The "usual, customary and prevailing" system, used since the inception of Medicare at the insistence of organized medicine, had proven to be highly inflationary, as could have been predicted at the outset. It also was unfair, because it could result in quite different Medicare payments for the same service to two physicians working in the same building -- simply because one was more aggressive in billing than the other.
Soviet label notwithstanding, the relative fee structure underlying the Medicare fee schedules imposed in 1992 -- the so-called "resource-based relative value scale" -- has by now been widely adopted by many private health insurers in the United States as the basis for negotiating fees with physicians. The scale values procedures relative to a base unit that is given a monetary value by Congress and adjusted every year.
Among private insurers, this approach has replaced "usual, customary and reasonable."
In coming weeks I will examine more closely how Medicare's pricing for hospital services and physician services actually works, and contrast that with how fees are determined in the private insurance sector.

        
The Perennial Quest to Lower Health Care Spending 
        
Lost in the Shuffle: The Overarching Goals of Health Reform
        
In Health Care Overhaul, Language Matters
        
The Cost of Health Care Reform
        
Reader Response: How Much Do We Spend on Health Care?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (77%); PRODUCT PRICING (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); RETIREMENT POLICIES (69%) Daily Economist; health care; health insurance; U.S. health care costs; Uwe E. Reinhardt; Reagan, Ronald Wilson; Health Insurance and Managed Care

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (57%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (86%) Reagan, Ronald Wilson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



493 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: More Ado About the Debt

BYLINE: BERNIE BECKER


HIGHLIGHT: Some on the left and right aren't so keen on the debt commission's draft proposal, plus what new members of Congress did before they were elected.

 BODY:
From Today's Times:
-- The draft proposal from President Obama's bipartisan debt commission has angered some on the left (for suggesting cuts in programs like Medicare and Social Security) and the right (for putting forward some tax increases). As The Times's Jackie Calmes reports, those reactions illustrate the difficulties in trying to address the country's long-term budget problems. 
-- Previous experience not necessary: The Times's Jennifer Steinhauer writes that roughly 40 new House and Senate members are coming to Congress after capturing their first elected office -- the most in decades. 
-- The Times's William Yardley finds that Gail Fenumiai -- who has been assessing whether write-in ballots in Alaska were cast for Senator Lisa Murkowski -- is used to her own name being misspelled. 
-- A draft report from the Pentagon found that repealing "don't ask, don't tell" might cause some temporary disruptions, but no overall harm, The Times's Elisabeth Bumiller reports. (The report also found that a fair number of service members do oppose allowing gays to serve openly in the military.)
-- "Part documentarian, part White House-message-machine post": That's the Times's Ashley Parker's description of Arun Chaudhary, the official White House videographer, who follows the president behind the scenes and out in the open to craft a weekly recap of his activities.
From Around the Web:
-- There' are a couple of caveats in there: Midterm elections aren't the greatest predictors of presidential races, plus a lot can change in two years. But Politico finds Mr. Obama's re-election campaign seems likely to be more akin to the close races in 2000 or 2004 than to his own 2008 landslide. 
-- Is Nancy Pelosi's decision to try and stick around as top Democrat in the House good or bad for her party? The Washington Post finds the current speaker certainly has her talents (fund-raising, counting votes). But some Democrats worry that keeping Ms. Pelosi as leader sends the wrong message, given their party's recent resounding defeat.
-- The Tea Party Patriots are accusing more establishment Republicans of trying to undermine a two-day event they have organized for newly elected members of Congress, The Wall Street Journal reports. 
-- The Los Angeles Times finds that Republicans have dug in after last week's midterms, but that their hard-line stances may end up turning off voters who aren't so fond of either party. 
Washington Daybook: 
-- With his work at the G-20 complete, Mr. Obama is headed to Japan, the final stop on their tour of Asia. 
-- Daniel K. Tarullo, a member of the Federal Reserve board, is scheduled to speak at a George Washington University forum on financial regulations. 
-- The Labor Department is slated to release third quarter figures on extended mass layoffs, while the Federal Reserve is set to release data on American banks' assets and liabilities. 
-- In advance of the lighting of this year's national Christmas tree, the National Park Service will accept suggestions from the public.

        
The Early Word: Whither 'Don't Ask'
        
The Weekend Word: Regroup
        
The Early Word: Unemployment Numbers
        
The Early Word: New Majority
        
The Early Word: Voting Time

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); CAUCUSES (75%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); TAX LAW (73%); BUDGETS (73%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (66%); VISUAL ARTISTS (64%); FUNDRAISING (62%) early word; The Caucus

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (61%); WASHINGTON POST CO (52%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (61%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (61%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); LISA MURKOWSKI (54%); NANCY PELOSI (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011



494 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: November 12, 2010

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: Medicare's Soviet Label

BYLINE: UWE E. REINHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: While the Medicare fee structure is dictated by the government, not the market, it is a legacy of Republican administrations, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Uwe E. Reinhardt is an economics professor at Princeton. He has some financial interests in the health care field. 
"Medicare, Where Soviet Economic Thinking Lives On," was the headline on a recent blog offering commentary on an article about Medicare pricing in The Wall Street Journal, accompanied by a videotaped, highly critical interview on The Journal's "Online Opinion."
The article and the video are focused on Medicare pricing of physician services. But the Soviet label can also be affixed to Medicare's pricing for hospital care. 
Joseph Antos, the widely respected Wilson H. Taylor Scholar in Health Care and Retirement Policy at the American Enterprise Institute, agrees with the Soviet label. "Medicare ignores the market, setting prices for physician services based on an academic theory with its roots in the Soviet Union," he wrote in his "Confessions of a Price Controller."
Dr. Antos writes with authority on this issue. As he acknowledges in the piece, he oversaw both the academic study leading to this pricing system for physicians and its subsequent implementation.
I find it hard to disagree with Dr. Antos. Medicare fees are administered prices, set by a central government for the entire country. And that is Soviet economics.
So naturally one is led to ask: Who imported this fiendish Soviet pricing theory to the United States and imposed it on Medicare?
It was the administration of President Ronald Reagan, with the concurrence of a Congress controlled by the Democrats.
The Reagan administration acted after it became alarmed at the inflationary force inherent in a payment mechanism adopted by Medicare at its inception, at the behest of the hospital industry: retrospective, full-cost reimbursement of each hospital for its reported costs.
After exploring a number of alternatives, most of them probably not politically feasible, the Reagan administration and Congress decided to switch, during 1983-86, to set, centrally administered prices. It's hardly likely that the Reagan administration or Congress thought themselves inspired by Soviet theory, a notion that has been advanced more recently. These policy makers just thought the new system made more economic sense.
Most health economists - including me - saluted the switch, believing it would lead to more efficient hospital management. Hospital executives took a less kindly view, because it signaled the end of the Golden Era of hospital management.
The new payment system for hospitals used case-based bundled payments for "diagnostically related groupings" of inpatient cases, each with roughly similar reported costs and with a small and tolerable variance of actual costs per case around average costs for that case. The system is now known simply as the D.R.G.'s. It started with about 535 distinct D.R.G. cases and now has 745.
The D.R.G. system had its origin in pioneering research by Profs. John D. Thompson and Robert Fetter of Yale. They intended the D.R.G. classification to be mainly a management tool, a basis for managerial cost accounting and cost control commonly used in other industries.
It soon dawned on policy makers, however, that the D.R.G. classification could also be used as a basis for paying hospitals. That idea was successfully tested in the early 1980s in New Jersey and was put into effect nationwide in 1983.
In the words of Prof. Rick Mayes of the University of Richmond, who has chronicled the genesis of the D.R.G.'s in a fine paper: "The change was nothing short of revolutionary. For the first time, the federal government gained the upper hand in its financial relationship with the hospital industry." Indeed, that revolutionary innovation has by now been widely copied around the world, first in Australia and France, and subsequently in Germany and several other countries.
The Medicare fee schedule for physicians - the actual focus of the article in The Wall Street Journal - was introduced in 1992, by the administration of George H.W. Bush.
Dr. Antos confesses to having been part of its genesis. I confess that I, too, played a bit part, in my capacity as an appointed commissioner on the Physician Payment Review Commission, established by Congress. The commission unanimously recommended the adoption of the new payment system to Congress at the beginning of the 1990s.
The new Medicare fee schedule was based on research financed by the Reagan administration during the 1980s and conducted jointly by Prof. William Hsiao of Harvard and the American Medical Association. It was implemented in 1992 by the Bush administration, along with what was, in effect, a national budget for Medicare's total payments to physicians, then known as the "volume performance standard," and modified in 1997 to what is called the S.G.R. system, for "sustainable growth rate."
This new payment system for physicians replaced a highly dubious mechanism under which Medicare paid each doctor his or her "customary, prevailing and reasonable" fees, a clone of the "usual, customary and reasonable" system then widely used by private health insurers. It was a bewildering, computer-intensive system, with several filters based on each physician's own charge profile for each service during the previous year, along with frequency distributions of fees for each service by all physicians in the physician's market area.
The "usual, customary and prevailing" system, used since the inception of Medicare at the insistence of organized medicine, had proven to be highly inflationary, as could have been predicted at the outset. It also was unfair, because it could result in quite different Medicare payments for the same service to two physicians working in the same building - simply because one was more aggressive in billing than the other.
Soviet label notwithstanding, the relative fee structure underlying the Medicare fee schedules imposed in 1992 - the so-called "resource-based relative value scale" - has by now been widely adopted by many private health insurers in the United States as the basis for negotiating fees with physicians. The scale values procedures relative to a base unit that is given a monetary value by Congress and adjusted every year.
Among private insurers, this approach has replaced "usual, customary and reasonable."
In coming weeks I will examine more closely how Medicare's pricing for hospital services and physician services actually works, and contrast that with how fees are determined in the private insurance sector.

        
Reader Response: Medicare Options and Quality of Care
        
The Complexities of Comparing Medicare Choices
        
Medicare Spending Isn't Out of Control
        
Would Privatizing Medicare Lead to Better Cost Controls?
        
What Hospitals Charge the Uninsured

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (77%); PRODUCT PRICING (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); RETIREMENT POLICIES (69%) Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicare; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Reagan, Ronald Wilson; Economix

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (57%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (88%) Reagan, Ronald Wilson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2013



495 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: American Ideals That Have Fallen on Hard Times

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''The Impossible Dream,'' by Bob Herbert (column, Nov. 9):
I was talking to my 32-year-old son this past weekend and he said in an offhand sort of way, ''I don't know about this American dream.'' 
For growing numbers of the unemployed and underemployed and the beleaguered middle class, the American dream is a cruel hoax in this winner-take-all society so divorced from that quaintly antiquated notion of the common good.
The ideal of shared sacrifice is another American principle that has fallen on hard times, discredited as dangerously socialistic along with the common good. President Obama's economic team didn't get it -- thinking that by rescuing Wall Street they could jump-start Main Street -- and the newly elected majority in the House doesn't get it either.
The Republicans' fantasizing about making the Bush tax cuts permanent while engaged in two wars and creating jobs in sufficient numbers to climb out of the Great Recession is very ''loopy'' indeed.
Arthur Miller once said that human beings ''cannot bear very much reality, and the art of politics is our best proof.'' The ''artifice'' now surpasses the ''art'' by a long shot.
Barbara Allen Kenney Santa Fe, N.M., Nov. 9, 2010
To the Editor:
Bob Herbert addresses the macroeconomic issues facing America. The electorate made its choices, and we all can and should press our elected officials to respond to the horrendous joblessness before it destroys our present and future.
But we, the citizenry, can do something: We can prove that we still have the mettle to work our hardest in our immediate spheres. Our ability to reach out, to help others, to hire and train the best workers in the world -- this we each can do on a daily basis.
In our everyday lives, we can all make more effort to listen, to think differently and to engage one another. These are things that can happen tomorrow, long before the politicians sort it out.
Susan G. Stein Bay View, Wis., Nov. 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICS (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%) NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2010



496 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Running for President of Haiti, but Stumping in U.S.

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA; Deborah Sontag contributed reporting from Port-au-Prince, Haiti.

 BODY:
BOSTON -- It was a typical late-October campaign event, with spectators straining to see a candidate, talk of change and pleas for support, but with one major difference -- no one in the room could cast a ballot in the election.
The candidate, Mirlande Manigat, is running for president of Haiti. Like most of her 18 opponents nearing the Nov. 28 election, Ms. Manigat's campaign trail stretches northward from Port-au-Prince to Miami, New York, Boston and Montreal in hopes of garnering money and influence from the large Haitian diaspora. 
''I know you can't vote because you're American citizens,'' Ms. Manigat told a Creole-speaking crowd of about 200 people listening intently at a community center in the Dorchester neighborhood here, most eschewing a spread of food and some chastising audience members who were chatting during the speech.
''But I know you're thinking about your country,'' she said.
While Haitians in the United States and Canada have long played a role in elections in Haiti, foreigners have emerged as an especially key constituency this year as more attention has been paid to the role Haitians abroad can play in rebuilding after the January earthquake.
Candidates are hoping foreigners vote with their pocketbook and persuade friends and families back in Haiti to support their favored candidates.
''We are almost one million people who are living out of Haiti,'' said Ralph Myrthil, 41, who hosts a Haitian radio show in Boston. ''They need our voices even though we can't vote. When I send money to my mom or girlfriend or little brother, I'll say 'vote for whomever.' We play a key role in the campaign in Haiti, and that's why the candidates come to the diaspora.''
Haitians living abroad send more than $1 billion back to the country each year, according to the Haiti Project at Trinity Washington University in Washington, and the opinion of a friend or relative sending money is highly valued, many Haitians said.
''If you can gain the support of one person in Boston, it can translate to 10 people in Haiti,'' said Mark P. Jones, a professor of political science at Rice University who has studied Haiti.
That is exactly what Ms. Manigat was hoping for here, laying out her plans for shoring up basic services, fixing small problems that lead to large ones -- like a lack of gasoline -- and developing the economy. ''I want to listen to you, and I want to know what you want and what I can do to fix the problems with you,'' said Ms. Manigat, vice president of Quisqueya University, which is the most respected in Haiti. She spoke for more than three hours here.
''It's Saturday night, and instead of playing with your kids or going drinking or partying, you decided to leave everything and listen to a woman coming from Haiti,'' said Ms. Manigat, whose aides passed out envelopes in which supporters were asked to insert a check and send to a party representative.
Gosue Saint Fort, 68, of Brockton, Mass., came to see Ms. Manigat because he supported her husband, Leslie, when he was president briefly in 1988 and later exiled.
''They are good, intelligent people,'' Mr. Saint Fort said. ''And she's well known to the Haitian community here.''
Ms. Manigat came to Boston from a campaign stop in Montreal, and was the fifth candidate to visit the city in about a month. A rally was held at a Somerville Holiday Inn in early October, and hundreds of Boston-area Haitians gathered at a union hall to see Michel Martelly, a candidate and musician best known by his stage name, Sweet Micky.
In Brooklyn, dozens of people sat in the auditorium at Wingate High School on Halloween night, watching a performance of bongo drums while waiting for a candidate, Jean-Henry Ceant, to take the stage.
Mr. Ceant held three events in the New York area that weekend, including a dinner with a suggested $150-per-person contribution in Westbury. A seat at the presidential table was $1,000.
Mr. Ceant said he had raised about $10,000 from the United States and Canada before his New York fund-raisers, and was ''convinced 100 percent that in order to save Haiti, the diaspora has to be involved.''
Mr. Ceant and other candidates are appealing to the diaspora by pledging their support for a long-controversial issue: allowing dual citizenship so Haitians abroad can vote in Haitian elections, which would require a constitutional change.
''The Haitian Constitution essentially rules out any possibility that Haitians living overseas who have given up citizenship can be active politically as candidates or voters,'' said Robert Maguire, director of the Haiti Project.
Mr. Martelly's campaign has been sending text messages to cellphone users who call Haiti, saying in Creole: ''Do you want dual nationality? Tell your family which Haiti is for them.''
Professor Maguire said the nationality issue and nudges from the diaspora might backfire with some who want to keep Haitian citizens in charge of politics and the political process.
Despite that, Professor Maguire said, there has been a ''very strong receptivity in Haiti to what the diaspora can contribute'' post-earthquake, something that had been ''more heat than light'' before, he said.
Some in Brooklyn, however, wondered how involved Americans would be after candidates returned to Haiti.
''All those candidates, they come pick up our money and go back,'' said Jean-Junior Joseph, a media blogger and former press secretary in the prime minister's office. ''When they're there, they forget us. They do the fund-raising, and then they go back.''
Frantz Alexis, 54, a social worker from Brooklyn, has lived in New York for 38 years, but is listening to candidates because he wants to help Haiti rebuild.
''It doesn't matter if you've been here 10 years or 30 years, once you've identified yourself as Haitian the burden is put on you to help,'' Mr. Alexis said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A candidate for president of Haiti, Jean-Henry Ceant, at Wingate High School in Brooklyn. Below, 3 of the 19 contenders in the Nov. 28 election. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Posters for Lesly Voltaire, Charles Henry Baker and Jean Hector Anacasis on display outside Haiti's National Palace. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAMON ESPINOSA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A10)
 Mirlande Manigat has a bid. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ORLANDO BARRIA/EFE, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (72%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (72%) HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2010



497 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; SCENE IN/ SEEN IN ... MOSCOW; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: In Moscow, an Island Village for the Arts

BYLINE: By SOPHIA KISHKOVSKY

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- All of the fashionable, edgily intellectual and artistic roads here these days lead to an island opposite the Kremlin -- a sort of post-Modern encapsulation of a post-oil boom capital trying to prove there is more to life than a Maybach.
The island used to smell of chocolate. Today it's permeated by money that is trying not to be pointlessly flashy, brain power that is trying to be hip, and the mandatory art scene.
It is being called Moscow's answer to New York's Tribeca or London's Docklands, and it would take a writer such as Vladimir Sorokin, the king of contemporary Russian literary grotesque, to imagine the scene. The former Krasny Oktyabr, or Red October, chocolate factory complex has been transformed into art and photo galleries, designers' studios, television and Web media headquarters, bars and cafes, and the oligarch-funded Strelka Institute for Media, Architecture and Design. 
Red October's dramatic 19th-century, red-brick industrial silhouette looms over a small island on the Moscow River that is flanked by a reviled monument to Peter the Great, next door to a monumental Stalin-era apartment building that was home to many of the Soviet dictator's victims. Across a footbridge is Christ the Savior Cathedral, which Stalin blew up in 1931 and Yuri Luzhkov rebuilt when he was Moscow's all-powerful mayor in the 1990s.
Guta Development, a Moscow company, was planning to turn the Red October district into loft apartments before the global financial crisis hit. Guta started renting out the spaces instead.
Maria Baibakova, a 20-something New York- and London-educated socialite and contemporary art collector, put the factory, freed of its chocolate production lines, on the cultural map with a gallery that opened in 2008 (and has since moved). The next year, Red October was a venue for the 3rd Moscow Contemporary Art Biennale.
In the last few months, the neighborhood has come alive, turning into Moscow's first full-fledged culture and dining district.
''We're trying to teach people to think,'' said Ilya Oskolkov-Tsentsiper, president of the Strelka Institute and a creator of Afisha, a culture/lifestyle magazine that is a kind of glossy manifesto for the goings-on at Red October. ''We want to change the landscape around us,'' he continued, in a video posted on the institute's blog, strelkaschool.livejournal.com.
Rai, or Paradise, has been one of the city's elite nightclubs for years, and continues to thrive. The Lumiere Brothers Center for Photography specializes in retrospectives of Soviet photography. The gallery's white library, full of coffee-table photography editions and oriental carpets, is open to visitors.
Art Academiya, a restaurant and club in a loft space , is also an art gallery. Its bookstore sells coffee-table volumes such as ''Rude Brittanica,'' about comic-book art, and tomes on Diego Rivera, Richard Avedon and Grisha Bruskin.
The Kolonia coffee house is subtitled ''Coffee. Symbols. Words.'' The owners are husband and wife: Igor Kormyshev is an artist and art dealer and Maria Polyanskaya a writer, and their travels around Europe have inspired the cafe. Mr. Kormyshev's paintings of Venice and collection of ''social realism'' Soviet art, which he passionately distinguishes from the official school of Socialist Realism, fill the huge space that resembles an idealized 1960s artist ''masterskaya,'' or studio, in the back.
The Strelka Institute, which received its first group of 35 students in October, is named after the spit of the island, and is on the site of the old factory's garages. While showing students around, Dmitry Likin, the art director of Russia's Channel One state television and one of the school's founders, stopped to point out spectacular views of the cathedral and Peter the Great. They are ''two of the most ugly buildings in Moscow,'' he said, and examples of what Strelka students should not create.
Aleksandr Mamut, a billionaire known for his cultural interests and publishing ventures, is financing the school, where students from across Russia and elsewhere are studying free of charge and in English.
Rem Koolhaas, the Dutch-born architect who teaches at Harvard, is overseeing the curriculum. He came to Moscow in October to lead the first week of student research into the problems of architectural preservation.
This being Moscow, the Strelka Institute includes Strelka Bar, the city's latest fashionable eatery and club with a brick, wood-panel and cast-iron industrial-chic interior, a fusion menu (barley with shiitake and iceberg lettuce anyone?), a long bar and live piano music. Its rooftop terrace was the place to be this summer. The bar's proceeds help support the institute.
Next door, Dome, its name inspired by that of Christ the Savior, bills itself as a ''bar/cafe/cinema-lounge.'' It features DJ parties, and an in-house movie theater with couch seating and screenings that range from ''Kochegar,'' the latest from Aleksei Balabanov, and Soviet-era films, to Fellini's ''Dolce Vita'' along with Hollywood films and cult classics like ''The Rocky Horror Picture Show.''
In October, Dome was host to the Serbian director Emir Kusturica, and started an invitation-only Sunday lunch club. A literary round table in September titled ''Is Literature a Provocation?'' had the writers Sorokin and Viktor Yerofeyev, among others, throwing around references to Pushkin, Tolstoy, Dante, Flaubert, Celine, Hitler, Mel Gibson and Salman Rushdie, and inevitable ruminations on the nature of Russia.
''This is a venue for people with views that are amicable to us,'' said Daria Donskaya, a Russian film promoter who is one of Dome's owners. ''This is the main characteristic, and not whether a person is fashionable or not.'' Dome's executive chef, Andrei Ryvkine, who lived in London for 11 years and is promoting simple, healthy fare there, said Red October has a familiar feel, but one that's new to Moscow. ''It reminds me a lot of the Docklands,'' he said. ''It's the first time in Moscow when there's an entire district full of nighttime action,'' he said of crowds he saw still out and about at 2 a.m. on a recent weekend.
Aleksandr Prostakov, a 30-year-old copywriter for Cheil Worldwide, a South Korean advertising company -- a perfect example of Red October's demographic -- wonders about the constant comparisons to other places.
''Moscow is a city that wants to pretend that it's something that it's not, some other city -- Paris, New York, London, Vienna,'' Mr. Prostakov said. ''People want to seem to be what they're not.''
Ms. Polyanskaya of the Kolonia coffeehouse sees it differently. Moscow has long been popularly called a ''big village,'' and she thought that at Red October, a real village had formed. ''It resembles a little European town, or its center, where people have lived for years and know each other, and as a result trust each other and are very thoughtful toward each other,'' she said. ''Once upon a time, it was like this in Moscow.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); LIFESTYLE TRENDS (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%); WRITERS (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); DRINKING PLACES (73%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (70%); ART COLLECTING (70%); RELIGION (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2010



498 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WASHINGTON; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 139 words

HEADLINE: Postal Service Loses Another Bundle

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The United States Postal Service reported a net loss of $8.5 billion for the most recent fiscal year as mail volume continued to decline, forcing the agency to find ways to overhaul its business. The Postal Service has been trying to drastically reform its business practices for years in the face of the increasing popularity of e-mail, competition from FedEx, United Parcel Service and other delivery services, and the recent economic downturn. This is the fourth straight year the agency has posted net losses despite cost-cutting measures and staff reductions. The agency this summer proposed raising rates on first-class mail and other services beyond the pace of inflation to compensate for revenue losses. The agency's regulator denied the proposal. The Postal Service reported a $3.8 billion net loss for the previous fiscal year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTAL SERVICE (91%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (88%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%)

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (94%)

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (57%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2010



499 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: The Mirage of Lower Trade Imbalances

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at nytimes.com/norris

 BODY:
WHEN the going gets tough, governments complain about trade.
The meeting of the G-20 in Seoul, South Korea, this week was dominated by concerns about world trade, which has rebounded after falling sharply during the credit crisis and global recession. With the rebound, trade deficits and surpluses, which had appeared to be falling, have begun to rise again, setting off complaints from numerous countries that others are trying to hold down the value of their currencies to gain a trade advantage.
The apparent shrinkage of trade imbalances, usually presented as a percentage of gross domestic product, was in significant part a mirage caused by the plunge in trade. After all, if world trade went to zero, so would surpluses and deficits. 
Looked at in another way, by comparing the value of each country's exports with its imports, the declines were not nearly as sharp, and in some cases vanished altogether. Germany's balance of payments -- a figure largely made up of the trade balance -- fell from 8 percent of G.D.P. in late 2007 to 3.8 percent in early 2009, for example, only to recover to 4.4 percent in the latest data. But, as the accompanying charts show, its total exports were about 20 percent larger than its imports throughout the period.
Similarly, the United States' balance of payments deficit fell to as low as 2.4 percent of G.D.P., less than half what it was a few years earlier. But the improvement was far more modest when looked at in terms of trade. The country exported 41 percent less than it imported in 2007, compared with 34 percent less in the most recent 12 months.
As can be seen in the charts, Germany may have benefited over the last decade from the fact that other members of the euro zone were becoming less competitive in exports. France was exporting more than it imported when the decade began; now its exports are running 12 percent behind imports. Italy went from relatively small surpluses to relatively small deficits.
Not shown are some of the peripheral members of the euro zone, which have been robbed of competitiveness by inflation. Greek exports are 60 percent lower than imports, and that ratio has improved lately only because it is less able to afford imports. The figures for Portugal and Spain are 36 percent and 23 percent, respectively. Had there not been a euro, it is probable that the value of the German mark would have risen relative to that of other European nations, reducing the competitive advantage Germany now enjoys.
There were some significant changes in trade ratios during the downturn. Japan's trade surplus briefly vanished, although its export/import ratio has recovered in recent months. China's gap did narrow, although it now seems to be rising again. India's substantial trade deficit widened, and its ratio of exports to imports is now lower than that of the United States.
There has been little talk of that, however. In part, it is because the figures shown are for trade in goods, not services, an area where India is strong. But it also reflects the fact that India has been importing capital as it grows, offsetting the trade numbers.
With much of the developing world now growing more rapidly than the developed countries, there has been a rush of capital into many of them, touching off worries that their currencies will become overvalued and their terms of trade worsen. That appears to have happened in Brazil, where the rising value of the real has been accompanied by a sharp reduction in the export-import ratio. Some countries are beginning to impose various forms of capital controls in an effort to keep that from happening to them.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Percent by which each country's exports of goods exceed (or trail) that country's imports.: High positive numbers show a large trade surplus, while high negative numbers show a large trade deficit. (Source: Country reports, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); EURO (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); RECESSION (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (72%); GERMAN MARK (71%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF TWENTY (G20) (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (71%); INDIA (65%); PORTUGAL (51%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2010



500 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Shudders in Market For Municipal Bonds

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
Has the reckoning arrived for municipal bonds?
That is the question investors are asking after munis -- those old faithfuls of investing -- took their biggest hit since the financial collapse of 2008.
Concern over the increasingly strained finances of states and cities and a growing backlog of new bonds for sale overwhelmed the market last week. After performing so well for so long, munis and funds that invest in them fell hard. One big muni fund, the Pimco Municipal Income Fund II, for instance, lost 7.5 percent. The fund is still up 6.75 percent so far this year.
While the declines were relatively small given the remarkable gains in these bonds over the last two years, the slump was swift enough to leave investors wondering if this was a brief setback or the start of something worse. For months, some on Wall Street have warned that indebted states and cities might face a crisis akin to the one that brought Greece to its knees. 
''I think it's too early to say that it's more than a correction,'' said Richard A. Ciccarone, the chief research officer of McDonnell Investment Management.
''The facts just don't support a serious conclusion that the whole market's going downhill,'' he said. ''They could. We've got some serious liabilities out there.''
The causes of the week's big decline are clouded by unusual factors like the looming end of the Build America Bonds program, which has prompted local governments to race new bonds to market before an attractive federal subsidy is reduced.
But the big question confronting this market is how state and local governments will manage their debts. Many are staggering under huge pension and health care obligations that seem unsustainable.
Certainties are impossible because governments do not have to disclose the pension payouts they will have to make in the coming years, as they do for bond payouts.
California, for example, will have to sell nearly $14 billion of debt into the falling market this month, because of its record delay in getting a budget signed this year. The warnings keep coming. On Friday, Fitch, the credit ratings agency, issued a report saying that ratings downgrades for municipal bonds outnumbered upgrades for the seventh consecutive quarter.
And a few prominent defaults have made the market jittery.
''This is what happens with our market now, with these fears of a systemic credit crisis,'' said Matt Fabian, managing director at Municipal Market Advisors. ''Any weakness is related to fears of default.''
Standard & Poor's, meanwhile, issued a report last Monday observing that even troubled cities like Detroit were still able to bring debt to market at what the rating agency considered favorable rates. It said most government officials seemed determined to honor their general obligations.
Analysts like Mr. Ciccarone said much of the decline was concentrated among longer-maturity bonds and bonds with lower credit ratings. Their values fell more sharply as investors watched the Federal Reserve buying hundreds of billions of dollars of Treasury bonds and concluded the Fed's move would be inflationary over the longer term. That made some investors less willing to hold long-term municipal bonds, so the prices of the bonds fell.
Until two weeks ago, the municipal bond markets had been frothy, thanks in part to the intensifying interest of wealthy individuals in tax-sheltered investments as the sunset date on the Bush administration's tax cuts looms. People seek a tax shelter like municipal bonds because the interest is usually not taxed, and the bonds are considered very safe.
This year, however, tax-exempt municipal bonds have been harder than usual to find, because the governments that normally issue them have switched over to taxable bonds.
So investors were bidding up the prices. Mr. Fabian said that had fed into the prices of all of the municipal bonds held by mutual funds, which are assigned a value each day on the basis of a model because they may not trade.
The reason for scarcity of tax-exempt bonds has been, in part, the Build America Bonds program, created as part of the fiscal stimulus program. That federally subsidized program is scheduled to expire at the end of this year, so states and cities have been rushing to take advantage of it.
Yet the values of tax-exempt munis fell, defying those who said it was all a matter of supply and demand. The last week also brought some large tax-exempt bond issues, including one by a public authority in Massachusetts for Harvard University, which was reduced because of poor investor demand.
Mr. Fabian said the downdraft could continue next week.
''The risk is that you don't know,'' he said.
''You have an awful lot of money, including from households, that simply follows momentum.''
Online Correction: November 13, 2010, Saturday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of a photo caption with this article incorrectly described the status of $14 billion worth of California's debt. It will have to be sold, it has not yet been sold.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: California, led by Arnold Schwarzenegger, must sell nearly $14 billion of debt into the falling municipal bond market this month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCY NICHOLSON/REUTERS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUNICIPAL BONDS (92%); BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BOND ISSUES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); EXECUTIVES (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (56%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2010



501 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1410 words

HEADLINE: Asian Job Market Defies Feeble Recovery Elsewhere

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- One look at the hiring being done in Singapore, Hong Kong or Sydney is all it takes to see why world leaders assembling in Seoul during the past week were so adamant that greater coordination was needed to rebalance the global economy.
The economic recovery has been very uneven: feeble in the West and in Japan, and so rapid in the emerging Asia-Pacific economic powerhouses that many analysts are now fretting about inflation and overheating economies.
Few areas illustrate the growing divergence as well as the job market.
In the United States and Europe, if companies are adding jobs, they are doing so with the utmost caution -- and some are still shedding workers. Nokia, the Finnish mobile phone giant that once seemed invincible, recently said it would cut 1,800 jobs, amid intense competition. 
Vestas, a Danish wind turbine manufacturer, announced that it would eliminate 3,000 jobs, mostly in Denmark, but that it would maintain employment levels in China, where it recently opened a research and development center.
In the United States, where policy makers are working to forestall deflation, the Internet communications company Clearwire announced plans this month to reduce its work force by 15 percent, to about 3,600.
The contrast with much of Asia could hardly be starker.
On Friday, Royal Bank of Canada announced the establishment of a new trading floor in Hong Kong, where it now employs 100 people. The bank has increased its capital markets division in the Asia-Pacific region by more than 26 percent, to more than 330, since January. Last month, PricewaterhouseCoopers said it planned to double its work force in China to more than 20,000 by 2015.
Announcements of that type have been a near-daily occurrence lately in the Asia-Pacific region -- so much so that across much of the region, many employers have a new worry: a labor market that is now so tight that it can be tough to find the right people.
Finding experienced workers ''is a challenge,'' said Christopher Artinian, chief executive of Morton's Restaurant Group, which recently opened the first location of its upmarket steakhouses in Shanghai and expects to open several more in Asia in the next few years.
In Taipei, the W Hotel, which is due to open in February, recently held a talent auction in a trendy nightclub -- mock cocktails and D.J. included -- in an unconventional bid to attract applicants for the 490 positions it needed to fill. The hotel's management has signed up about 200 employees so far and hopes the approach will help reduce turnover. Staff retention is a huge challenge for employers in a region where it is common for employees to change jobs frequently.
And many of the banks that are expanding their operations here speak of intense competition for everything from client relationship managers to compliance staff and systems operators.
''Everyone we're speaking to is expecting to grow next year,'' said Matthew Hill, managing director for Hong Kong at the job agency Ambition, referring to employers in the region. ''There's a lot less concern here about how the economy is looking, and increased pressure for international companies to maximize the opportunities that Asia presents.''
The unemployment rate in the United States is hovering just below 10 percent, and President Barack Obama has billed his current trip around Asia as a mission to improve business for U.S. companies. In Spain, unemployment is about 20 percent; in Greece, the figure is more than 12 percent.
Even in Germany, whose economy has proven more energetic than many had expected and is adding jobs, unemployment is about 7 percent.
Compare that with the situation in Asia.
Recruitment began to pick up again during the second quarter of 2009, when much of the West was still in the grip of recession. In the financial hubs of Hong Kong and Singapore, the unemployment rate stands at about 4.2 percent and 2.1 percent, respectively. In South Korea, which was host to the G-20 summit, 3.6 percent of people are out of a job. And in Australia, the jobless rate was 5.4 percent in October.
The unemployment rate in China stands at 3.5 percent, though economists debate whether the figure is really that low. But employers are nevertheless finding it tough to fill positions, including blue-collar jobs. Employers in many cases had to give workers significant pay increases amid a wave of strikes this year.
Hiring intentions in many important Asian cities are now at or near their all-time highs, according to a quarterly survey conducted by Hudson, an employment service. Nearly two-thirds of companies surveyed in Hong Kong and mainland China, and 58 percent of respondents in Singapore, said they planned to add people this quarter, Hudson reported last month.
By contrast, a survey by the European Commission for October showed that even while economic sentiment for European businesses had improved, consumers were more pessimistic about their job opportunities in the coming months and were saving more.
The hiring in Asia has been especially frenzied in the financial sector. Local and international companies alike have been rushing to grab a slice of the Asian pie, which is growing as wealth levels rise and Asian companies become more active on the capital markets.
Hong Kong alone could see about 5,800 additional financial services jobs this year, and 7,200 more in 2011 -- taking the total to nearly 196,000 -- according to Kinsey Allen International, an executive search firm that specializes in the sector. In 2003, the financial sector employed about 146,000 people in Hong Kong.
The luxury and hospitality sectors, too, are hiring as hotel operators and retailers race to expand their presence.
All that is helping to push up salaries and bonus expectations, employers and headhunters report.
''There is no doubt that the jobs market in Asia has got hotter as the global financial crisis rolled over,'' Mike Smith, chief executive of the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group, said last month. This, he added, ''has put pressure on remuneration levels.''
The recruitment firm Robert Half, which focuses on hiring for financial services companies, found in a survey that one in five finance industry employers in Hong Kong would pay ''whatever it cost'' to recruit the best finance and accounting talent. More than 90 percent said they saw a shortage of skills in the current market, and 58 percent said there was a ''major and chronic shortage,'' Robert Half said last month. The firm's survey covered 1,600 professionals in Hong Kong, Singapore, Australia and New Zealand.
Separately, a survey of nearly 950 real estate professionals, published by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors during the past week, showed that average salaries in the booming Asian real estate sector had shot up 22.4 percent this year, to nearly $96,000 per year.
In some areas, ''job candidates are finding they have three, four, five offers on the table,'' said Mr. Hill of Ambition. ''Our guys are interviewing 50 to 100 percent more job candidates than in London -- but still there are not enough candidates. Demand is definitely outstripping supply.''
For now, the market is not quite as tough -- from an employer's point of view -- as during the heady days of 2007.
That is helping to keep a lid on average salaries, despite the spikes seen in some areas. ''Companies are still taking a disciplined approach to hiring plans, and to managing salaries,'' said Mike Game, who heads up Hudson in Asia.
Residual nervousness about the global economy means that employers are still setting the bar high in hiring. Most clients ''want 9 out of 10 boxes ticked'' when it comes to candidates' qualifications, said Paul Endacott, managing director at Ambition in Singapore. During the precrisis crunch of 2007, many settled for 7 out of 10, he said.
But there is a finite supply of experienced professionals with the desired cultural background, language skills and other qualifications, while demand, it seems, is insatiable.
All that, experts agree, is likely to intensify the crunch in the future and cause salaries to rise -- bad news for already worrisome inflation pressures in much of Asia, but good news for consumers and job seekers.
''The talent shortage is not as bad as it was in 2007, but it will get more difficult to recruit, going into 2011,'' said Andrew Morris, managing director of Robert Half in Hong Kong. ''There's no better place to be looking for a job than in Asia.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (74%); TURBINE MFG (73%); DEFLATION (72%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); WIND POWER PLANTS (68%); RESTAURANTS (65%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%)

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (67%); MORTON'S RESTAURANT GROUP INC (63%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (54%)

TICKER: RY (TSX) (67%); RY (SWX) (67%); RY (NYSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (67%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (67%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (63%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (63%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (79%) ASIA (95%); HONG KONG (94%); CHINA (93%); SINGAPORE (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); DENMARK (92%); EUROPE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); FINLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2010



502 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: Money Back On Tuition?

BYLINE: By JENNIFER SARANOW SCHULTZ

 BODY:
In this weak economy, many recent, and soon-to-be, graduates of colleges and graduate schools are having a difficult time finding jobs, leading at least one to ask whether it's possible to get back money spent on tuition. 
Last month, an anonymous third-year Boston College Law School student posted a letter on a student newspaper site asking the school's interim dean for a refund.
In the ''Open Letter to Interim Dean Brown,'' the student discussed his dim job prospects and pregnant wife. ''Many of us are in an enormous amount of debt from our legal studies,'' he said in the letter. ''Soon after our graduation, we will be asked to make very large monthly payments towards this debt, regardless of whether we've been able to find employment or not.''
He then proposed a solution. He said he was ''willing to leave school, without a degree, at the end of this semester,'' in exchange for ''a full refund of the tuition I've paid over the last two and a half years.'' The student argued that the exchange would be a win-win for him and the school since the school wouldn't have to report his unemployment at graduation to U.S. News & World Report.
The letter received attention from many blogs, other law school students and professors, a Bucks blog commenter and the national media. The comments on the letter ranged from sympathetic and supportive to disbelieving and disparaging.
As for whether the student was ever reimbursed, a spokesman for the law school issued a written statement to ABC News saying that the school was ''deeply concerned about the job prospects and general well-being of our students and our recent graduates'' in the downturn. ''But no institution of higher education can make a guarantee of a job after graduation.'' It added, ''What we can do is provide the best education possible, and work together to provide as many career opportunities as possible.''
Still, it appears that at least one community college did recently offer a money-back guarantee of sorts, according to a WalletPop post and a Time Magazine article. According to the reports, last spring, Lansing Community College in Michigan offered a money-back guarantee for its six-week ''Get a Skill, Get a Job'' certificate program.
Should other schools offer similar money-back guarantees? Should students who graduate without jobs be able to get some kind of tuition reimbursement? Share your thoughts below.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (91%); TUITION FEES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); EMPLOYEE TUITION ASSISTANCE (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (55%)

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (67%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON COLLEGE (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); LANSING, MI, USA (69%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2010



503 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Summit Shows U.S. Can Still Set Agenda, if Not Get Action

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- It could have been far worse.
That was the consensus among the leaders of the Group of 20 economic powers as they dispersed Friday, following a two-day summit meeting dominated by anxieties over currency and trade frictions. In their fifth meeting since the 2008 financial crisis, the leaders agreed in essence to a year-long cooling-off period during which they will slowly tackle persistent economic imbalances.
''In Seoul, there was too much jostling over currencies, deficits and exports for the G-20 leaders to make any significant breakthroughs,'' said David Shorr, who studies economic diplomacy for the Stanley Foundation, an organization in Muscatine, Iowa, that advocates international cooperation. ''But there was also enough concern to avert a disastrous breakdown.'' 
The meeting still showed the power of the United States to set the agenda for international discussion, even if the result -- charging the International Monetary Fund with analyzing the sources and consequences of the imbalances -- was far less robust than American officials had hoped for.
Expectations for this summit meeting had been low, particularly because officials from China and Germany, the world's two biggest export-driven economies, had repeatedly criticized the United States for weakening the dollar as a means of supporting a sluggish domestic recovery.
But in interviews here, officials from Europe and the United States said that weakening, specifically the decision by the Federal Reserve to inject $600 billion into the economy, was not a major topic of discussion in the leaders' private meetings.
In those discussions, including at a dinner on Thursday and a lunch on Friday, there was considerable agreement on the need to address a fundamental trade, or accounts, imbalance: some economies are spending, buying and borrowing too much and others too little.
Jose Manuel Barroso, president of the European Commission, said in an interview here that the G-20 joint statement on the need to curb those imbalances was significant given that some countries did not even support raising the issue just two years ago.
''This represents a quantum leap in terms of global economic governance,'' he said. ''I think very frankly that the G20 has passed the test.''
For his part, President Obama suggested that the attention on imbalances had overshadowed significant agreements on overhauling financial regulations and improving development assistance for poor countries.
''Naturally there's an instinct to focus on the disagreements, because otherwise, these summits might not be very exciting -- it's just a bunch of world leaders sitting around intervening,'' he said at a news conference. ''And so there's a search for drama. But what's remarkable is that in each of these successive summits we've actually made real progress.''
Even the British prime minister, David Cameron, who on Thursday said the G-20 was past its ''heroic phase,'' called the forum essential.
''If we didn't have the G-20 there would be the real danger that countries might go off and pursue their own interests,'' he said, adding: ''I don't accept the idea that the G-20 process isn't working. It's a process.''
China's increasingly vocal and assertive posture was a defining theme of the meeting, as was the candid American acknowledgment that the recovery of the United States -- essential for global economic growth -- requires outside help.
Squabbling over highly technical language in the 22-page joint statement was so intense that a meeting of key officials from the G-20 countries stretched into Friday morning, only hours before the leaders were to bless the communique. And in their closed-door meetings, leaders were not shy about sharing their views.
''There were robust conversations,'' Mr. Cameron said, when asked to characterize the leaders' meetings. ''What I witnessed were relatively good-natured conversations. Yes, of course there were pressures and tensions, but it was right that they were addressed at a forum like this instead of slipping over into bilateral action.''
Mr. Obama found himself defending the Fed's decision buy government bonds to lower long-term interest rates, even though he has tried to avoid commenting on the central bank, an independent entity.
At the leaders' dinner on Thursday, Mr. Obama acknowledged that the Fed's monetary policy offered the most promising course of speeding the American recovery, given the political impediments to any additional fiscal stimulus measures, according to Mr. Barroso.
The Obama administration made it clear that it was not seeking to dictate the terms of economic debate, as it once could have done, but was seeking to foster international norms.
''What the IMF can do is the necessary function of playing the role of referee or of independent arbiter,'' a senior administration official said. ''The IMF has to play that role there's no alternative to it.''
A common complaint about the G-20 is that it lacks enforcement mechanisms. The forum, still largely informal, operates by consensus and peer pressure, not sanctions and rules. So the rationale for cooperation on reducing imbalances is an argument that the benefits outweigh the costs.
The challenge ahead will be to specify how to measure broad imbalances, and then to fix them.
''You have to have numbers,'' said the senior American official, who spoke on condition of anonymity according to ground rules set by the White House. ''This is economics. Just like a thermometer has numbers on it, you have to have numbers, and everybody recognizes that.''
Or as Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the managing director of the I.M.F., put it: ''Now we have to see -- after six months, after one year, after two years -- if we're able to give some flesh around the bone.''
Some observers have doubts. John Kirton, a political scientist at the University of Toronto and the co-director of the G-20 Research Group at the university's Munk School of Global Affairs, said he was disappointed that the leaders did not comment on the economic turbulence still roiling parts of Europe, most notably Ireland.
''The G-20 has successfully moved toward becoming a global economic steering committee, but perhaps at the expense of abandoning the core crisis response responsibility that gave it birth,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERVIEWS (86%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EURO CRISIS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (61%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); DAVID CAMERON (54%); JOSE MANUEL BARROSO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2010



504 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1477 words

HEADLINE: Defying Trend, Canada Lures More Migrants

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

 BODY:
WINNIPEG, Manitoba -- As waves of immigrants from the developing world remade Canada a decade ago, the famously friendly people of Manitoba could not contain their pique.
What irked them was not the Babel of tongues, the billions spent on health care and social services, or the explosion of ethnic identities. The rub was the newcomers' preference for ''M.T.V.'' -- Montreal, Toronto or Vancouver -- over the humble prairie province north of North Dakota, which coveted workers and population growth.
Demanding ''our fair share,'' Manitobans did something hard to imagine in American politics, where concern over illegal immigrants dominates public debate and states seek more power to keep them out. In Canada, which has little illegal immigration, Manitoba won new power to bring foreigners in, handpicking ethnic and occupational groups judged most likely to stay.
This experiment in designer immigration has made Winnipeg a hub of parka-clad diversity -- a blue-collar town that gripes about the cold in Punjabi and Tagalog -- and has defied the anti-immigrant backlash seen in much of the world. 
Rancorous debates over immigration have erupted from Australia to Sweden, but there is no such thing in Canada as an anti-immigrant politician. Few nations take more immigrants per capita, and perhaps none with less fuss.
Is it the selectivity Canada shows? The services it provides? Even the Mad Cowz, a violent youth gang of African refugees, did nothing to curb local appetites for foreign workers.
''When I took this portfolio, I expected some of the backlash that's occurred in other parts of the world,'' said Jennifer Howard, Manitoba's minister of immigration. ''But I have yet to have people come up to me and say, 'I want fewer immigrants.' I hear, 'How can we bring in more?' ''
This steak-and-potatoes town now offers stocks of palm oil and pounded yams, four Filipino newspapers, a large Hindu Diwali festival, and a mandatory course on Canadian life from the grand to the granular. About 600 newcomers a month learn that the Canadian charter ensures ''the right to life, liberty and security'' and that employers like cover letters in Times New Roman font. (A gentle note to Filipinos: resumes with photographs, popular in Manila, are frowned on in Manitoba.)
''From the moment we touched down at the airport, it was love all the way,'' said Olusegun Daodu, 34, a procurement professional who recently arrived from Nigeria to join relatives and marveled at the medical card that offers free care. ''If we have any reason to go to the hospital now, we just walk in.''
''The license plates say 'Friendly Manitoba,' '' said his wife, Hannah.
''It's true -- really, really true,'' Mr. Daodu said. ''I had to ask my aunt, 'Do they ever get angry here?' ''
Canada has long sought immigrants to populate the world's second largest land mass, but two developments in the 1960s shaped the modern age. One created a point system that favors the highly skilled. The other abolished provisions that screened out nonwhites. Millions of minorities followed, with Chinese, Indians and Filipinos in the lead.
Relative to its population, Canada takes more than twice as many legal immigrants as the United States. Why no hullabaloo?
With one-ninth of the United States' population, Canada is keener for growth, and the point system helps persuade the public it is getting the newcomers it needs. The children of immigrants typically do well. The economic downturn has been mild. Plus the absence of large-scale illegal immigration removes a dominant source of the conflict in the United States.
''The big difference between Canada and the U.S is that we don't border Mexico,'' said Naomi Alboim, a former immigration official who teaches at Queens University in Ontario.
French and English from the start, Canada also has a more accommodating political culture -- one that accepts more pluribus and demands less unum. That American complaint -- ''Why do I have to press 1 for English?'' -- baffles a country with a minister of multiculturalism.
Another force is in play: immigrant voting strength. About 20 percent of Canadians are foreign born (compared with 12.5 percent in the United States), and they are quicker to acquire citizenship and voting rights. ''It's political suicide to be against immigration,'' said Leslie Seidle of the Institute for Research on Public Policy, a Montreal group.
Some stirrings of discontent can be found. The rapid growth of the ''M.T.V.'' cities has fueled complaints about congestion and housing costs. A foiled 2006 terrorist plot brought modest concern about radical Islam. And critics of the refugee system say it rewards false claims of persecution, leaving the country with an unlocked back door.
''There's considerably more concern among our people than is reflected in our policies,'' said Martin Collacott, who helped create the Center for Immigration Policy Reform, a new group that advocates less immigration.
Mr. Collacott argues high levels of immigration have run up the cost of the safety net, slowed economic growth and strained civic cohesion, but he agrees the issue has little force in politics. ''There's literally no one in Parliament willing to take up the cudgel,'' he said.
The Manitoba program, started in 1998 at employers' behest, has grown rapidly under both liberal and conservative governments. While the federal system favors those with college degrees, Manitoba takes the semi-skilled, like truck drivers, and focuses on people with local relatives in the hopes that they will stay. The newcomers can bring spouses and children and get a path to citizenship.
Most are required to bring savings, typically about $10,000, to finance the transition without government aid. While the province nominates people, the federal government does background checks and has the final say. Unlike many migrant streams, the new Manitobans have backgrounds that are strikingly middle class.
''Back home was good -- not bad,'' said Nishkam Virdi, 32, who makes $17 an hour at the Palliser furniture plant after moving from India, where his family owned a machine shop.
He said he was drawn less by wages than by the lure of health care and solid utilities. ''The living standard is higher -- the lighting, the water, the energy,'' he said.
The program has attracted about 50,000 people over the last decade, and surveys show a majority stayed. Ms. Howard, the immigration minister, credits job placement and language programs, but many migrants cite the informal welcomes.
''Because we are from the third world, I thought they might think they are superior,'' said Anne Simpao, a Filipino nurse in tiny St. Claude, who was approached by a stranger and offered dishes and a television set. ''They call it friendly Manitoba, and it's really true.''
One complaint throughout Canada is the difficulty many immigrants have in transferring professional credentials. Heredina Maranan, 45, a certified public accountant in Manila, has been stuck in a Manitoba factory job for a decade. She did not disguise her disappointment when relatives sought to follow her. ''I did not encourage them,'' she said. ''I think I deserved better.''
They came anyway -- two families totaling 14 people, drawn not just by jobs but the promise of good schools.
''Of course I wanted to come here,'' said her nephew, Lordie Osena. ''In the Philippines there are 60 children in one room.''
Every province except Quebec now runs a provincial program, each with different criteria, diluting the force of the federal point system. The Manitoba program has grown so rapidly, federal officials have imposed a numerical cap.
Arthur Mauro, a Winnipeg business leader, hails the Manitoba program but sees limited lessons for a country as demographically different as the United States. ''There are very few states in the U.S. that say, 'We need people,' '' he said.
But Arthur DeFehr, chief executive officer of Palliser furniture, does see a lesson: choose migrants who fill local needs and give them a legal path.
With 11 million illegal immigrants in the United States, he sees another opportunity for Manitoba. ''I'm sure many of those people would make perfectly wonderful citizens of Canada,'' he said. ''I think we should go and get them.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 18, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about Canada's immigration policy referred incompletely to the policy in the province of Quebec. While Quebec, like all the other provinces, selects its own immigrants subject to federal approval on health, security and criminality questions, its program operates under a different power-sharing agreement with Canada's federal government. Quebec's policy gives preference to people who speak French. Also, its agreement with the federal government can be amended only by mutual consent while the other provincial agreements are subject to federal approval.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Immigrant workers at the Palliser furniture factory in Winnipeg, Manitoba. The province tries to attract semi-skilled workers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN WOODS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); ETHNIC GROUPS (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); ETHNICITY (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); REFUGEES (73%); EMPLOYMENT COVER LETTERS (64%); DIWALI (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (92%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (90%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%) MANITOBA, CANADA (95%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); QUEBEC, CANADA (92%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (90%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); NIGERIA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



505 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Believing In Barack

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
I have faith in Barack Obama. Of course, I also have faith in the New York Mets.
I believe Obama is going to get his groove back and be the leader we elected, even though he is testing us sorely. This week he went to South Korea to negotiate a trade agreement, and the agreement fell through. The administration says this is because he was being a tough bargainer, but you don't send the president overseas to fail to get an agreement. Wasn't anybody taking notes when he went to Denmark to fail to get the Olympics for Chicago?
Also, the president has been looking very wishy-washy on the Bush tax cuts. We all know that he wants to extend the tax cuts for the middle class and end them for the wealthy. But that will require a huge battle with the Republicans in Congress, and the statements coming out of the White House have not exactly sounded as if everybody's going to the mattresses. ''We need to deal with the world as we find it,'' David Axelrod, an adviser to Obama, told The Huffington Post. 
The theory is that the president should sound reasonable so that if the Republicans dig in their heels, they will look like the bad guys. But refusing to give an expensive break to millionaires at a time of high deficits should be a crusade. Take it to the people -- let's enjoy politics for a change! Then, if Congress sends the president a bill extending the tax breaks for everybody, the nation will be on his side when he vetoes it.
Axelrod wouldn't comment on anything having the word ''veto'' in it, but he did tell me that the president ''will not make the tax cuts for the wealthy permanent.''
So I have faith he will do the right thing, even though Axelrod's line in the sand does not rule out temporarily extending everything for a couple more years. Obama must know that that would be wasting a great opportunity to define his party as the champion of fiscal responsibility. It would be even worse than going to South Korea to not sign a trade agreement.
Finally, I believe that the president will pick the right course on the deficit.
Unfortunately, before we go any further, we are going to have to discuss the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, which is led by Erskine Bowles and Alan Simpson.
Until this week, I had expected to be able to go through my entire life without ever having a single thought about Erskine Bowles.
He's a businessman best known for having been deputy chief of staff for President Bill Clinton. And now that I think of it, I do remember that at some point in the 1990s, I entertained a fleeting question about what kind of name Erskine was.
Simpson, the better known co-chairman, is a former senator who is famous for his witty remarks, such as referring to the AARP as ''the greedy geezers of America'' and calling Social Security ''a milk cow with 310 million tits.'' In other words, he is exactly the sort of person who gives being colorful a bad name.
The two of them just released a long list of extremely unpleasant things that they think Congress should do to eliminate deficit spending by 2015. It's just their ideas. The 18-person commission hasn't voted on anything yet. Nevertheless, everybody in Washington is talking about ''Bowles-Simpson.''
That in itself should tell you how far we've fallen as a nation. A couple of years ago we were all walking around saying: ''Wow, Barack Obama is president!'' Now we're all saying: ''What do you think of Bowles-Simpson?''
Doesn't Bowles-Simpson sound a lot like a medical procedure? Or a really high-end vacuum cleaner?
The report was impressive in the rigor of its demands for hard decisions, but not all that much else. It went on in great detail about how to fix Social Security, which is actually the one thing for which anybody could come up with a plan. Social Security is like the Israeli-Palestinian situation. Everybody knows pretty much what to do, but nobody knows how to talk the Israelis and Palestinians into doing it.
The real gorilla in the deficit room is health costs. In fact, it's a rabid big gorilla with a machine gun. All Bowles and Simpson said on that subject is that the government should establish ''a process to regularly evaluate cost growth.'' If that doesn't work, they advised taking ''additional steps as needed.''
So not the greatest blueprint in history. But the worst thing you could do would be to dismiss it out of hand, like Nancy Pelosi, who called it ''simply unacceptable.'' The people of America made it clear in the election that they want something done about the deficit. The president's responsibility is to show them he's going to heed their orders, and then follow through without making the economy worse or cutting critical services.
I have faith that Obama is going to do just that, and that this time he'll respond to the challenge in a way that isn't remote or opaque or confusing. Also, next year: the Mets. World Series.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VETO (89%); TAX LAW (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); DAVID AXELROD (78%); BILL CLINTON (78%); ERSKINE BOWLES (55%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2010



506 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Mayor to Push Senators To Pass 9/11 Health Bill

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
Hoping to generate last-minute momentum for a long-stalled health care bill for ground zero rescue workers, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg plans to travel to Washington next week to lobby several crucial Republican senators who are believed to be undecided.
The House of Representatives passed the $7.4 billion bill in September, largely along party lines, with Democrats citing a moral obligation to help those who risked their lives after the Sept. 11 attacks and who contracted illnesses from breathing in toxic fumes, dust and smoke. Republicans said the program was too expensive. 
But with a new and decidedly more conservative Congress set to take office in January, the bill's supporters are worried that the legislation, which took years to piece together, will die in the lame-duck session that begins on Monday.
So Mr. Bloomberg, who backs the bill, plans to meet on Tuesday with three or four Republicans, though his office said on Friday that a list had not yet been finalized.
Congressional staff workers said those likely to meet with Mr. Bloomberg included Senators Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins of Maine, Scott P. Brown of Massachusetts and John McCain of Arizona.
Mr. Bloomberg also plans to take part in a news conference with New York's two Democratic senators, Kirsten E. Gillibrand and Charles E. Schumer; Representative Peter T. King, a Long Island Republican; Representative Jerrold Nadler, a Democrat who represents Lower Manhattan; and union leaders representing the firefighters, police officers and others who responded to the attack.
''Nine-eleven was an attack on America, and there are sick responders from every state,'' Michelle L. Goldstein, executive director of the city's Federal Affairs Office in Washington, said Friday. ''If the Senate doesn't pass the bill this session, these brave men and women will have to wait even longer for the health care they so desperately need.''
Whether Mr. Bloomberg, an independent, has enough political capital to make a difference remains to be seen.
Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader, has been adept at convincing his caucus to block several major Democratic initiatives. And with six more Republican senators set to join in January, there is little incentive, it would appear, to break ranks now.
Democrats believe they need only two Republican votes to reach the 60 votes needed to break any filibuster.
Ms. Gillibrand, the bill's main sponsor, said she was hopeful that a last-minute bipartisan push would work.
''I'm talking to Republicans every day about the merits of this legislation, and the mayor, Congressman King and others are a very important part of our strategy to secure Republican votes,'' Ms. Gillibrand said in a statement on Friday, while traveling in Pakistan and Afghanistan. ''We have a moral obligation to pass this bill.''
The bill, known as the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act, bears the name of a New York Police Department detective who participated in the recovery efforts at ground zero for about three weeks after the attack.
Detective Zadroga died in January 2006 after developing symptoms common to first responders, including breathing problems and flulike conditions. The cause of his death became a source of debate after the city's medical examiner concluded that it was not directly related to the 9/11 attacks.
The bill calls for providing $3.2 billion over the next eight years -- 10 percent of which would be paid for by the city -- to monitor and treat injuries stemming from exposure to toxic dust and debris at ground zero. The bill would also set aside $4.2 billion to reopen the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund to provide compensation for job and economic losses.
In addition, the bill includes a provision that would allow money from the Victim Compensation Fund to be paid to any eligible claimant who receives a payment under the pending settlement of lawsuits that 10,000 rescue and cleanup workers filed against the city.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg plans to visit Washington to seek Republican support. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN LANE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); POLITICS (89%); FILIBUSTER (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); TERRORISM (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (77%); SCOTT BROWN (58%); JERROLD NADLER (58%); PETER T KING (57%); CHARLES SCHUMER (57%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (57%); MITCH MCCONNELL (57%); SUSAN COLLINS (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (79%); AFGHANISTAN (50%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2010



507 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: A Panel's Plan to Cut the Deficit

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Some Fiscal Reality'' (editorial, Nov. 11):
The current federal budget deficit was caused mainly by unnecessary wars and related military spending, the worst economic downturn since the 1930s, and large tax cuts and bailouts for the rich, all stemming from the Bush administration.
Now a bipartisan commission proposes that we solve the long-term deficit ''problem'' by cutting back Social Security, Medicare and other social welfare programs. Thus the poor, the sick and the elderly would pay for the tax breaks and bailouts for the already wealthy. 
The Republicans have made it clear that they have only one economic goal: making the rich richer. Are there no Democrats left with any backbone?
Robert Ortner Short Hills, N.J., Nov. 12, 2010
The writer was chief economist and under secretary of commerce during the Reagan administration and is the author of ''Voodoo Deficits.''
To the Editor:
Your editorial has faint praise for the draft proposal from Erskine B. Bowles and Alan K. Simpson, chairmen of the deficit reduction commission. You essentially say: Yes, we like the idea, but here's what's right and wrong.
Likewise, the Democrats and the Republicans have already started their partisan carping. Enough from all of you! We have a huge problem in the United States, and we need it solved with the kind of bold initiatives endorsed by Mr. Bowles and Mr. Simpson.
All will need to sacrifice and have their ''ox gored.'' I see things in the proposal that will cost me and that I don't like. But it's time to think about the country and not you or me.
Let's hope for strong leadership from President Obama and Congress. We'll each lose a little and gain a lot. That's what sacrifice is about.
Martin B. Freedland Atlanta, Nov. 11, 2010
To the Editor:
Obviously President Obama's deficit reduction commission does not include among its members retired people like me who are dependent on Social Security and find the mortgage interest deduction to be the difference between owning a home and having to sell it in a terrible market.
Shared sacrifice may be necessary, but before I have to start doing it I'd like to hear a lot more about how those making millions of dollars in bonuses on Wall Street will be sharing that sacrifice with me and my fellow senior citizens, who will be receiving no Social Security cost-of-living increase this year.
Harry T. Cook Royal Oak, Mich., Nov. 11, 2010
To the Editor:
Re ''The Hijacked Commission,'' by Paul Krugman (column, Nov. 12):
As a liberal, I am being told I should be outraged that President Obama's federal deficit commission has dared to address the solvency of Social Security by gradually increasing the retirement age to 69 and reducing some benefits for wealthy recipients.
I'm not.
Similarly, I imagine there is a conservative version of myself refusing to take offense at the recommendation to increase tax revenue by eliminating popular tax breaks and loopholes.
On behalf of myself (and my conservative doppelganger), I commend the commission's leaders for putting forth a pragmatic and balanced approach toward deficit reduction while preserving our most treasured safety nets. By spreading the pain around and simultaneously infuriating both the left and the right, the Bowles-Simpson plan may actually stand a chance in our broken political system. At the least it will test the ability of our democratic republic to address serious long-term problems.
Sure it's easier to cut taxes and increase spending (that's how we got here in the first place), but we elect leaders to make difficult decisions, not easy ones.
Peter Fried Brighton, Mass., Nov. 12, 2010
To the Editor:
Re ''Panel Seeks Cuts in Social Security and Higher Taxes'' (front page, Nov. 11):
The recommendations of the bipartisan commission on reducing the national debt and deficit pay too little attention to greatly reducing the hundreds of billions of dollars of subsidies and tax breaks that corporations and financial institutions receive from the government every year.
If members of Congress try to saddle average citizens with the lion's share of the burden of reducing the national deficit while corporations contribute relatively little, an irate public will again vote those politicians out of office.
Jeffrey S. Milstein Fairfax, Va., Nov. 11, 2010
To the Editor:
Re ''On Deficit Plan, Bipartisan Pain'' (front page, Nov. 12):
Although liberals and Tea Party activists object to initiatives being recommended in the debt reduction commission's report, the public should also be upset over the timing of the report.
This report should have been released before the election -- not a week after. What better time to discuss major policy initiatives than before an election?
Paul Feiner Greenburgh, N.Y., Nov. 12, 2010
The writer is the supervisor of the Town of Greenburgh.
To the Editor:
Any serious effort to reduce our deficits will require compromise. If the debt reduction panel can produce a plan that is moderate enough to infuriate the lunatic fringe at both ends of the political spectrum, it will have done its job well.
Daniel Dickinson Mountain View, Calif., Nov. 12, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHI BIRMINGHAM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); AGING (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); COST OF LIVING (78%); WRITERS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); SENIOR CITIZENS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (76%); PAUL KRUGMAN (57%); ERSKINE BOWLES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2010



508 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; CURRENTS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Summitry From the Bottom Up

BYLINE: By ANAND GIRIDHARADAS

 BODY:
CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS -- A few years ago, in a password-protected room of a Bangalore outsourcing operation, I came across a young man fiddling with an Airbus A380. With clicks of a mouse, he was virtually examining the aircraft's electrical systems. Airbus was a big client, but, these being boom times, others at the same firm were working for Boeing in another password-protected room.
The man appeared closer in age to his first shave than to fatherhood. My memory has him slouching in the chair. I succumbed to the temptation of a current-events joke: The A380 was in the news those days for falling behind on the production schedule. Smiling, I asked the man whether he was to blame for the delay. 
''Actually, sir,'' he replied, ''if they had outsourced the whole plane to us, it would have been finished early.''
There was something distinctly un-Indian about a response like this. An unmistakable whiff of America had gotten into him. The young man's parents probably wouldn't have spoken in that way; they might have found such talk disrespectful and tempting of fate. But what was Indian and un-Indian was changing, and such verve, confidence, self-belief were contagious among the globalized, upwardly mobile young.
The man came to my mind this week as the United States and India, on the occasion of President Barack Obama's visit to the subcontinent, breathed new warmth into a relationship that has heated up considerably since the Cold War, then was seen in some quarters as cooling again under the Obama administration.
Those fears seemed dampened by a shower of economic deals, by visible chemistry between Mr. Obama and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, by an Indian news media that fawned over the Obamas, and by the U.S. president's surprising announcement of support for a permanent Indian seat on an expanded United Nations Security Council.
During the visit, Mr. Obama repeatedly described the Indian-American bond as ''the defining partnership of the 21st century.''
The prevailing narrative of how such partnerships form tends to emphasize diplomacy and trade: The media covers such partnerships through the vehicle of summitry and communique, and when those summit meetings happen, they almost always involve a world leader traveling with droves of chief executives in tow to reinforce economically what is politically achieved.
But the process by which nations come together, get to know each other, is more complex and mysterious and subtle than meets the eye.
The case of India and the United States reveals what is true of many other cases as well: Beneath the summitry and state dinners and trade deals, there is a gradual human weaving through which two countries sensitize themselves to each other, inspire and learn from each other, laugh at and argue with each other, mimic each other's fashions and management philosophies, discover each other's pressure points.
It happened in the bookstores. In India, where the self had for many millions traditionally been something to sublimate to the family and clan, the stores began to fill with take-charge-of-your-life American self-help titles like ''The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People.'' U.S.-style management philosophy likewise taught a rising generation of Indian managers to invigorate their fathers' sluggish enterprises.
In the United States, meanwhile, books on meditation, yoga and ayurvedic medicine proliferated; as one country learned from the other how to light dynamism's fire, another learned how to slow it down and live with balance. And writers like Jhumpa Lahiri explained India to Americans and America to Indians, and showed, in her little family microcosms, what life might look like were the two worlds to blend.
It happened in the arts and culture. A new crop of Bollywood song makers merged American hip-hop beats into their tracks and sometimes even rap interludes. Indian advertisements began to speak in the American language of selfhood, freedom and choice -- ''The Internet is under new management. Yours,'' declared an ad for Yahoo in The Hindustan Times. Filmmakers began to make popular off-Bollywood films more likely to appeal to Westerners: darker, grittier, shorter song-and-dance-free titles like ''Life in a Metro'' and ''Love Sex aur Dhokha.''
America reciprocated with an Academy Award for ''Slumdog Millionaire,'' with the casting of Aishwarya Rai in ''Bride and Prejudice,'' with Indian characters in mainstream television shows like ''Outsourced'' and movies like ''Office Space.''
Each country became more comfortable with public officials with ties to the other country. In India, American-returned officials like Montek Singh Ahluwalia, Palaniappan Chidambaram, Rahul Gandhi and Shashi Tharoor did much to overcome the suspicion of them as outsiders and firangis -- foreigners. In the United States in these last few years, voters have grown more comfortable with South Asian faces in their governors' mansions and legislatures.
It happened in the realm of style. In India, the jeans slowly grew skinnier and acquired deliberate, paid-for wear and tear, while slipping from the waist down to the hip. Slinky tank tops multiplied on the streets of Mumbai and Delhi, sold by men who would faint if they saw their wives wearing one. And U.S. stores seem simultaneously to have concluded that their jewelry could use a little masala, sparing no opportunity to Indianize necklaces and earrings.
So much of the bottom-up bilateral warming took place in a handful of spaces: places like the Bagel Shop in the Bandra quarter of Mumbai, where expats and locals mingled; the Grand Hyatt hotel nearby, where conferences were held to give Indian and American journalists and power brokers unprecedented access to each other; Rasika, an Indian restaurant in Washington, where Indians and Washington lobbyist types dined side by side; the business-class cabins of Continental's and Delta's direct U.S.-India flights, aboard which it became increasingly common for regular pliers of that route to run into one another.
When a summit meeting occurs, cameras click and analyses are penned and prognostications are offered. What is sometimes lost in the lights is the quiet daily summitry of millions of ordinary people. It can build a relationship over long years and can make diplomatic breakthroughs, important though they are, seem merely like acknowledgements of what already, inexorably is.
Join an online conversation at http://anand.ly

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OUTSOURCING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); COLD WAR (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (58%); BOEING CO (58%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (86%); MANMOHAN SINGH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2010



509 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Obama Seeks Lift in Japan After Bumpy Ride in Seoul

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
YOKOHAMA, Japan -- President Obama, looking to wrap up his sometimes rocky economic tour of Asia on a high note, said Saturday that he made ''no apologies for doing whatever I can'' to bring jobs to the United States. And he vowed to pursue trade partnerships and American investment in the region so that he could put the United States back on a path of ''discovering, creating and building the products that are sold all over the world.''
Mr. Obama arrived in this bustling port city on Friday evening for the second of two back-to-back summit meetings, the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum. In a speech on Saturday morning to a group of business leaders here, he seemed to be aiming his message as much at a domestic audience in the United States as to an Asian one. 
''As president of the United States, I make no apologies for doing whatever I can to bring those jobs and industries to America,'' said Mr. Obama, who will return to Washington on Sunday. ''But what I've also said throughout this trip is that in the 21st century, there's no need to view trade, commerce or economic growth as zero-sum games, where one country always has to prosper at the expense of another. If we work together, and act together, strengthening our economic ties can be a win-win for all of our nations.''
Yokohama is the president's final stop on a 10-day, four-nation journey that took him to India, Indonesia and South Korea. In the wake of the battering his party took in the midterm elections at home last week, Mr. Obama has cast his Asia trip as mission to revive the American economy and bolster job growth.
But his policies, contentious at home, have proved contentious overseas as well, and he faced stiff challenges during the Group of 20 gathering in Seoul, South Korea, from the leaders of China, Britain, Germany and Brazil over currency policy and his contention that the United States could pump money into its economy to stimulate growth before concentrating on reducing the deficit.
During a news conference on Friday afternoon in Seoul, Mr. Obama attributed the conflict to his administration's efforts to even out global trade imbalances, by pressing other nations to accept numerical targets for limiting trade surpluses or deficits. In the end, the leaders of the world's 20 most affluent economies drafted a communique that fell short of Mr. Obama's goal, leaving most of the work on creating ways to monitor and correct such imbalances for future meetings.
''Part of the reason that sometimes it seems as if the United States is attracting some dissent is because we're initiating ideas,'' the president said at the news conference in Seoul. ''We're putting them forward. The easiest thing for us to do would be to take a passive role and let things just drift, which wouldn't cause any conflict. But we thought it was important for us to put forward more structure to this idea of balanced and sustained growth. And some countries pushed back.''
Mr. Obama arrived on the world stage two years ago to a fawning reception by world leaders. They arrived at global conferences carrying copies of his memoir, hoping for autographs. They angled for handshakes and ''bilats'' -- diplomatic jargon for one-on-one meetings. They maneuvered to get near him in photo opportunities. But in Seoul, he grappled with questions about the role of the United States as a world power, about his stature on the world stage in a post midterm environment and even about his own diplomatic touch.
''It's not just a function of personal charm,'' the president said. ''It's a function of countries' interests and seeing if we can work through to align them.''
When a reporter asked what kind of complaints he was hearing from fellow leaders, Mr. Obama laughed it off, asking, ''What about compliments?'' As to whether the elections at home have weakened him overseas, he served up a one-word answer: No.
And while he told reporters before leaving Washington that his relationship with the American people had gotten ''rockier and tougher'' over time, he said in Seoul that his relations with foreign leaders had actually grown stronger since he took office.
''When I first came into office, people might have been interested in more photo ops because there had been a lot of hoopla surrounding my election,'' Mr. Obama said, adding that he now had a ''genuine friendship'' with a raft of world leaders. Still, he said, ''That doesn't mean there aren't going to be differences.''
''It wasn't any easier to talk about currency when I had just been elected and my poll numbers were at 65 percent than it is now,'' Mr. Obama said. ''It was hard then and it is now.''
Despite his stumbles in Seoul, Mr. Obama's first two stops -- India and Indonesia -- were quite successful for him. In India, he lifted export controls that had banned American companies from selling sensitive technologies and backed India's bid for a permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council -- moves that foreign policy analysts in both parties credited with turning around a relationship that had been faltering. In Indonesia, where he lived for four years as a boy, he had a sentimental homecoming -- even though it was cut short when a cloud of volcanic ash interfered with air travel, forcing him to leave several hours early.
In Yokohama, Mr. Obama tried to sum up those highlights, as he sought to link America's own history of innovation and discovery -- ''the idea that led us westward and skyward'' -- with Asia's own economic transformation, and the economic development he had witnessed here.
''In different ways and different places over the last week, I have seen this idea alive in the teeming, thriving democracies of Asia,'' he said. '' It gives me great confidence in the ties that bind our people, and great hope in our ability to move toward the future together -- not as drops, but with the strength of an ocean.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama with President Hu Jintao of China during the Group of 20 summit meeting in Seoul, South Korea, on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); CURRENCIES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%); GLOBALIZATION (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HU JINTAO (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%) KANTO, JAPAN (90%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (94%); ASIA (94%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); BRAZIL (79%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2010



510 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE HOUSE SPEAKER; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: Obama Calls Pelosi a 'Partner'

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
SEOUL - President Obama on Friday gave his tacit endorsement to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's bid to stay on as Democratic leader after January, calling her ''an outstanding partner for me.'' 
Mr. Obama was asked during a news conference here whether he believes the Democratic Party needs new leadership in the wake of the Election Day trouncing that cost Democrats control of the House. At first, he did not reply directly, though he ultimately did seem to give Ms. Pelosi his blessing.
The House speaker has said she will run for minority leader, even though she does not have the support of some moderates in her own party.
''I think that what we will naturally see is a whole bunch of talented people rise to the top as they promote good ideas that attract the American people when it comes to jobs and investment and how to grow the economy and how to deal with our challenges,'' the president said. ''I think Speaker Pelosi has been an outstanding partner for me. I think Harry Reid has been a terrific partner in moving some very difficult legislation forward. And I'm looking forward to working with the entire leadership team to continue to make progress on the issues that are important to the American people.''
Mr. Obama also addressed the question of whether he would support an extension of the Bush tax cuts -- and said his position has not changed.
''With respect to the Bush tax cuts, what I've said is that I'm going to meet with both the Republican and Democratic leaders late next week and we're going to sit down and discuss how we move forward. My number-one priority is making sure that we make the middle-class tax cuts permanent, that we give certainty to the 98 percent of Americans who are affected by those tax breaks. I don't want to see their income taxes spike up -- not only because they need relief after having gone through a horrendous recession, but also because it would be bad for the economy.'' he said.
''I continue to believe that extending permanently the upper-income tax cuts would be a mistake and that we can't afford it. And my hope is, is that somewhere in between there we can find some sort of solution. But I'm not going to negotiate here in Seoul. My job is to negotiate back in Washington with Republican and Democratic leaders.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX RELIEF (86%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); INCOME TAX (69%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (61%); PRESS CONFERENCES (57%)

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); HARRY REID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (89%) UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (89%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2010



511 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: 3 Republicans Say Report On Spill Was Manipulated

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Three Republican senators demanded Friday that the White House explain last-minute editing changes to an Interior Department report on the BP oil spill that falsely implied that a group of independent experts had endorsed a political decision to temporarily halt all deepwater oil drilling. 
The senators, members of the Environment and Public Works Committee, called for hearings into the matter, contending that the White House had manipulated science for political ends, a claim Democrats frequently made about the George W. Bush administration.
The Interior Department's inspector general issued a report this week asserting that officials in the office of Carol M. Browner, the White House coordinator for energy and climate change policy, had changed some wording and moved some sentences in an agency report that ended up misrepresenting the views of the technical experts.
The Interior Department report, issued at the end of May, made two dozen recommendations for improving the safety of offshore drilling and said that until those changes were adopted, all drilling in water deeper than 500 feet should be suspended. It said that the recommendations had been ''peer-reviewed'' and approved by a panel of outside engineers and oil drilling experts.
Shortly after the report appeared, the technical advisers angrily complained that while they had endorsed a number of the safety recommendations, they had not concurred that a blanket deepwater drilling ban was needed. They said such a ban would punish companies with good safety records and lead to thousands of lost jobs.
Interior Secretary Ken Salazar publicly and privately apologized to the scientists for distorting their views.
The moratorium proved highly controversial in the Gulf of Mexico, with oil companies and many local politicians complaining that it was wreaking economic devastation. Mr. Salazar lifted the moratorium in mid-October, six weeks ahead of schedule, saying that the new safety requirements had been met.
Senator David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana, an outspoken critic of the moratorium, was among those calling for hearings. ''This blatant disregard by administration officials to push their job-crushing moratorium on the people of the Gulf Coast absolutely must be further investigation,'' Mr. Vitter said in a statement. ''The I.G. report that I requested in June and that was released this week revealed that the recommendations to move forward with the moratorium were directed by politics -- not science or expertise.''
Senator John Barrasso of Wyoming, the senior Republican on the environment committee's oversight panel, noted that the committee chairwoman, Senator Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California, had conducted hearings on the Bush administration's alleged political interference with scientific findings of the Environmental Protection Agency and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
''Under Carol Browner's watch, politics is trumping science,'' Mr. Barrasso said. A spokesman for Ms. Boxer said the committee would consider its schedule when the Senate reconvenes next week.
Bill Burton, a White House spokesman, said Ms. Browner's office had properly reviewed a draft document from the Interior Department and noted that the inspector general had found no evidence that the White House had deliberately misrepresented the experts' views.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator David Vitter called for hearings on the report. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK SEMANSKY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL EXTRACTION (91%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); OIL SPILLS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (71%); APPROVALS (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (64%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (57%)

PERSON: DAVID VITTER (78%); KEN SALAZAR (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); CAROL BROWNER (58%); BARBARA BOXER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2010



512 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Obama Says China's Policy Is an 'Irritant' to Trading Partners

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN; Su-Hyun Lee and Mark McDonald contributed reporting.

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- The Group of 20 major economies took initial steps to address imbalances in the global economy on Friday. But they did not act as assertively as President Obama had hoped, and he left little doubt that he considered one country, China, the primary source of the problem.
Scrapping a longtime practice of speaking with diplomatic caution about China's currency policy, Mr. Obama accused Beijing of intervening aggressively to keep its currency, the renminbi, below its market value to promote exports. He said it was a mistake for nations to think that ''their path to prosperity is paved simply with exports to the United States.''
''Precisely because of China's success, it's very important that it act in a responsible fashion internationally,'' Mr. Obama said at a news conference at the conclusion of the economic summit meeting here. ''And the issue of the renminbi is one that is an irritant not just to the United States, but is an irritant to a lot of China's trading partners and those who are competing with China to sell goods around the world.'' 
Though his own Treasury Department, like those of prior administrations, has certified that China is not a ''currency manipulator,'' a designation that can prompt Congressional trade action, Mr. Obama appeared to remove the remaining wiggle room he had on the subject of the renminbi, declaring: ''It is undervalued. And China spends enormous amounts of money intervening in the market to keep it undervalued.''
The tougher language seems likely to add tension with China, which has already sharply criticized the Obama administration's decision to try to mediate territorial disputes involving China and its East and Southeast Asian neighbors.
But Mr. Obama's efforts to persuade China to act on its own, or as part of a collective commitment by big economies to address trade imbalances, have yielded only incremental steps, raising the possibility of a contentious and awkward prelude to a state visit to Washington by President Hu Jintao of China scheduled for January.
Under heavy American pressure, the leaders of the Group of 20 economies did agree Friday to curb ''persistently large imbalances'' in trade, as well as saving and spending, that officials believe pose risks to global growth. The group's communique reflected an emerging consensus that longstanding economic patterns -- in particular, the United States' consuming too much and big exporters like China and Germany consuming too little -- were no longer sustainable.
But the uneasy compromise fell short of initial American demands for numerical targets on trade surpluses and deficits, and left most of the work to monitor and address such imbalances for future meetings. ''Instead of hitting home runs, sometimes we're going to hit singles,'' Mr. Obama said. ''But they're really important singles.''
Mr. Obama acknowledged that the agreement ''doesn't provide an enforcement mechanism,'' but said it ''does give the international community the ability to monitor and see exactly what countries are doing'' and ''gives a mechanism to apply at least some peer pressure'' on countries treating their trading partners unfairly.
The cautious approach reflected, according to several officials from the Group of 20 powers, the concerns of China, which resisted setting any kind of timetable for currency appreciation, and Germany, which insisted that the problem involved fiscal, monetary and other policies, not just trade.
The leaders did, however, agree to ''move toward market-determined exchange-rate systems,'' to avoid trade and currency wars and to coordinate their policies.
Mr. Hu said that the Chinese economy would shift toward domestic consumption and that the government would make it a priority to increase domestic demand, as the United States and many economists have urged.
Mr. Obama said that China's shift toward higher consumption and a stronger currency would occur ''in a gradual fashion.'' He said he hoped that Mr. Hu's visit to Washington in January would yield additional progress.
The declaration the Group of 20 leaders agreed upon was largely based on an agreement that finance ministers, including Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, hammered out last month at a meeting in Kyongju, South Korea. But it added a timetable.
The finance ministers are to agree by next June on ''indicative guidelines'' for ''timely identification'' of big, enduring imbalances that ''require preventive and corrective actions to be taken.''
Using those guidelines, the International Monetary Fund will then conduct an analysis of the causes and consequences of the imbalances by the next Group of 20 leaders' meeting, to be held in France late next year.
Technical and watered-down as it was, the language on imbalances was the most contentious element of the 22-page joint statement by the leaders. It was completed only after days of negotiation by the leaders' representatives that stretched into early Friday, hours before the leaders approved the deal.
''In Seoul, there was too much jostling over currencies, deficits and exports for the Group of 20 leaders to make any significant breakthroughs,'' said David Shorr of the Stanley Foundation, a nonprofit organization that advocates international cooperation and monitors the Group of 20. ''But there was also enough concern to avert a disastrous breakdown.''
Expectations for the meeting had been low, particularly after officials from China, Germany, Brazil and other nations accused the Federal Reserve of weakening the dollar to support the sluggish American recovery.
The meeting did, however, yield substantial agreements in other areas. The leaders endorsed an encompassing new round of bank capital standards known as Basel III, called for a conclusion to the long-delayed Doha round of world trade talks and declared that development of poorer countries mattered not only for social justice, but for the bottom-line goal of raising global demand to sustain the recovery.
The leaders also backed a broader role for the International Monetary Fund, in addition to having it examine the imbalances.
They ratified changes in the fund's governance that will expand representation of emerging markets, and supported the expansion of lending programs for countries facing a sudden liquidity crunch.
President Obama suggested that the controversy over currencies and trade sometimes obscured those accomplishments.
''Naturally there's an instinct to focus on the disagreements, because otherwise, these summits might not be very exciting -- it's just a bunch of world leaders sitting around intervening,'' he said, adding that ''in each of these successive summits we've actually made real progress.''
Other leaders offered similar, if mild, praise.
''Not heroic, but good and steady progress,'' said the British prime minister, David Cameron.
Jose Manuel Barroso, president of the European Commission, said the outcome was ''a quantum leap in terms of global economic governance,'' given the refusal of some countries even to discuss imbalances two years ago.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, surrounded by security officers, arrived in Tokyo on Friday. His Asian trip has also taken him to India, Indonesia and South Korea. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CURRENCIES (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); EXPORT PROMOTION (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); HU JINTAO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (74%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); TOKYO, JAPAN (59%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); INDIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); INDONESIA (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (59%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2010



513 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Throwing Free Trade Overboard

BYLINE: By ROBERT E. LIGHTHIZER. 
Robert E. Lighthizer, a lawyer, was a deputy trade representative in the Reagan administration.

 BODY:
Washington
DESPITE his failure to conclude a trade deal with South Korea this week, President Obama has put free trade at the top of his agenda. That's in part because the White House and the newly empowered Republican leadership see it as one of the few places where they can work together.
But those expectations could be upset by an unexpected force: the Tea Party. Strangely, for a movement named after an 18th-century protest against import levies, Tea Partyers are largely skeptical about free trade's benefits -- according to a recent poll by NBC and The Wall Street Journal, 61 percent of Tea Party sympathizers believe it has hurt the United States. 
The movement has already forced the Republicans to alter their agenda in several policy areas. Should the same thing happen with free trade, America's stance toward open markets and globalization could shift drastically.
At first glance, the Tea Party's position may seem contradictory: its small-government, pro-business views usually go hand in hand with free trade. But if you consider the dominant themes underlying its agenda, it makes sense that the movement would be wary about free-trade policies. For starters, Tea Partyers are frustrated with Washington, and that includes its failure to make free trade work for America. Our trade deficit in manufactured goods was about $4.3 trillion during the last decade, and the country lost some 5.6 million manufacturing jobs.
And while the Tea Party supports market outcomes, its members appear to believe that the rest of the world is stacking the free-trade deck against us. They have a point: most policymakers agree that the Chinese currency is grossly and deliberately undervalued, that China fails to respect intellectual property rights and that it uses government subsidies to protect its own manufacturing base. Meanwhile, the movement says, the United States does virtually nothing in response.
The Republican establishment will argue that its trade agenda is consistent with Tea Party ideals, that its goal is to get government out of the way and allow American companies to thrive in competitive markets.
But Tea Partyers will ask, what good does it do to reduce the role of our government if foreign governments are free to rig the rules, attack American industries and take American jobs? As a result, the otherwise pro-market Tea Party may find its economic program far more at home with a nationalist trade policy that confronts foreign abuses and fights for American companies.
Tea Partyers also have an instinctive aversion to deficits, and they are undoubtedly concerned that our enormous trade imbalances -- which require us to sell hundreds of billions of dollars in assets each year -- will leave our children dependent on foreign decision makers. Indeed, the value of foreign investments in the United States now exceeds the value of American investments abroad by $2.74 trillion, and China alone has roughly $2.5 trillion in foreign currency reserves, primarily dollars.
Deficits, moreover, aren't just a statistic; they raise serious concerns about America's global leadership role. The Tea Party will demand to know why, if our trade policy is so successful, so many experts believe that the 21st century will belong to China, not the United States.
And the Republican establishment will have to deal with the fact that Tea Party heroes like Alexander Hamilton, Theodore Roosevelt and Ronald Reagan had no problem restricting imports to promote our national interest. Given the Tea Party's desire to restore America's greatness, it will push Washington to stand up to China and re-establish American pre-eminence, even at the cost of the country's free-trade record.
Finally, trade is an issue where Tea Party concerns about ''elites'' thwarting the will of the voters will resonate.
In this case, the elites include both Democrats and Republicans. You would need a high-powered microscope to tell the difference between Bill Clinton and George W. Bush on the subject of trade. Even during this slow economic recovery, Mr. Obama is pushing for a new market-opening round of talks at the World Trade Organization.
Among Republicans, not one major elected figure expresses the skepticism toward free trade held by over three-fifths of Tea Partyers. In the face of soaring trade deficits and talk of American decline, the Tea Party may ask whether this is yet another area where the establishment has simply gotten it wrong.
In short, the apparent contradiction between the Tea Party's fiscal conservatism and its skepticism about free trade may not be a contradiction at all. If the Tea Party continues to influence the Republican agenda, it may not only spell bad news for the South Korea free trade agreement -- it could also mean a fundamental reorientation of our country's attitude toward trade and globalization.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRY CAMPBELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); CHILDREN (67%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (62%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (62%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2010



514 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Taking Aim at a Very Sacred Cow

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

 BODY:
By proposing to curtail the tax deduction for mortgage interest, the president's deficit commission is sounding an alarm.
The home mortgage deduction is one of the most widely used and expensive tax subsidies. More than 35 million Americans claim it, and the federal government estimates it will cost the Treasury $131 billion in forgone revenue in 2012. Its size, popularity and link to the emotionally charged American notion of homeownership has made it so politically sacrosanct that there are serious doubts whether Congress will even entertain the idea.
But by raising the specter of ending one of the most cherished tax breaks, the commission is trying to jar the public into recognizing the magnitude of the nation's budget deficit and some of the drastic steps that might be needed to close it. 
Because the mortgage interest is one of a limited number of tax breaks available to middle-income Americans, the commission's proposal has also rekindled a debate about how much of the pain of deficit reduction should be borne by the middle class.
The proposal, part of a draft by co-chairmen Alan K. Simpson and Erskine B. Bowles, suggested that the tax code could be streamlined, and income tax rates drastically lowered, by eliminating the $1.1 trillion in annual tax expenditure entitlements -- subsidies and breaks given to targeted businesses and individuals. The commission chairmen also offered the option of capping the deduction at $500,000 on mortgages, rather than the current limit of $1 million.
The prospect brought an angry outcry. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi blasted the commission's suggestions, saying it would force middle-class homeowners to subsidize tax breaks for the wealthy. Officials in the real estate and mortgage industries warned that ending the deduction could cripple an already ailing housing market.
''The mortgage interest deduction is one of the pillars of our national housing policy,'' said Michael D. Berman, chairman of the Mortgage Bankers Association. ''Limiting its use will have negative repercussions for consumers and home values up and down the housing chain.''
But tax policy experts say that for all its popularity, the value of the deduction in public policy is debatable. It was intended to encourage homeownership, but housing economists point out that countries like Canada and Australia, which do not allow mortgage interest deductions, have homeownership rates similar to those of the United States.
''What the subsidy is doing is driving up prices by encouraging well-off people to take out bigger loans, to buy bigger houses,'' said Roberton Williams, a fellow at the Tax Policy Center. ''So I think there's a question about whether that is something the government should be doing with tax money.''
Critics of the subsidy also argue that, despite its broad support, the benefits from the mortgage interest deduction flow disproportionately to the wealthy.
Calvin Johnson, a tax professor at the University of Texas, said that only those in the top third of wage earners even itemized their deductions, meaning that two-thirds of taxpayers weren't eligible for the break.
''No one can make a serious intellectual argument in favor of the mortgage interest deduction,'' he said. ''Why should the government subsidize homeowners rather than renters? The only thing it's good for is middle-class votes.''
In recent years, there have been several proposals to amend the deduction by scaling it back at the upper end. The Congressional Budget Office in 2008 proposed changes that would limit the savings for wealthier taxpayers, one that would convert the deduction into a 15 percent tax credit and another that would eliminate the deduction on the interest on home equity loans. Because millions of families counted on the deduction when buying their homes, most proposals include provisions to phase in any change over a number of years.
Whether or not a change is included in the deficit commission's final report, tax policy experts say Congress would probably not consider it except as part of a major overhaul of the tax code.
Even so, economists say that the debate will help clarify the difficult choices the country faces.
The rhetoric of tax-cutting so dominates the political debate in Washington that many elected officials are reluctant to acknowledge that the federal government devotes as about as much money to tax breaks -- $1.1. trillion -- as it does to discretionary spending.
''What this proposal does is stress the theme that tax cuts have the same effect as spending,'' said Edward C. Kleinbard, a tax professor at the University of Southern California and former chief of staff of the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation. ''It's a theme people want to resist, but it is a fact. Giving a tax break without cutting spending is the same as the government writing out checks to people.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Erskine Bowles, left, and former Wyoming Senator Alan Simpson led a deficit panel that proposed ending the mortgage tax break. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
 Michael Berman, of the Mortgage Bankers Association, said ending the mortgage tax break would hurt consumers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (65%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%)

PERSON: ERSKINE BOWLES (73%); NANCY PELOSI (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2010



515 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 13, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; I.H.T. OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Germany Speaks Out

BYLINE: By STEVEN HILL

 BODY:
The Group of 20 meeting in Seoul is quickly emerging as a game-changing moment. Not only did President Barack Obama suffer a loss of face, but America's leadership took a major hit.
Following America's catalytic role in bringing the global economy to the brink of disaster, followed by the Obama administration's weakened political position after the Nov. 2 mid-term elections, the United States is now losing the global argument over what is the best development model for the 21st century.
It didn't help that Timothy Geithner, the U.S. secretary of the Treasury, came to the table with a preposterous proposal. Geithner, along with other well-known American economists, had pushed a controversial theory -- namely that the recent economic collapse was caused not only by America's Wall Street casino capitalism but also by certain global trade imbalances. In these economists' theoretical world, if the trading surpluses don't balance the deficits, if their spreadsheet columns don't add up, then disaster surely awaits. 
In practical terms, according to Geithner et al., that meant that countries with robust manufacturing sectors and big trade surpluses like Germany, Japan and China must increase public spending and buying things from countries like the United States with big trade deficits. Then this boost in global consumption not only would provide more electronic trinkets, big screen TVs and stylish clothes for the Germans, it also would help the world balance its trade imbalances.
That was the theory, anyway. It came from the same experts who missed an $8 trillion housing bubble in the United States, but that's another matter.
Or is it? Surely Secretary Geithner has visited Germany and Japan and noticed that these wealthy nations are hardly lacking in material goods or modern trinkets, so what exactly are the Germans and Japanese supposed to buy more of?
China is a different story. There, about a billion poor people could use some of the things money can buy to raise their living standards. But unfortunately the Chinese authorities think it's better to finance the U.S. budget deficit and American consumers' profligacy rather than the welfare of their own people.
At the G-20, the Germans weren't buying any of it, nor were many of the other 18. Instead, Chancellor Angela Merkel began lecturing back.
The United States is the one that must take the necessary steps to increase its competitiveness, she said. The U.S. should not try to put limits on countries that have figured out how to get the world to buy their goods. ''In the task ahead, the benchmark has to be the countries that have been most competitive, not to reduce to the lowest common denominator,'' she said. Ouch! -- America being called ''the lowest common denominator.''
Her finance minister, Wolfgang Schauble, was even more blunt. He described American policy as ''clueless'' and said the American growth model is stuck in a deep crisis: ''The U.S.A. lived off credit for too long, inflated its financial sector massively and neglected its industrial base.'' Ouch again. Germany -- previously sneered at by U.S. pundits for its ''weak and sclerotic'' economy -- lecturing America about how to grow its economy.
Merkel said something else that is even more of a game changer: ''It is essential to return to a sustainable growth path.'' One cause of the crisis was that ''we did not have sustainable growth. In many countries growth was built on debt and bubbles.''
What Merkel was saying is that the era of U.S.-style consumption-driven economics is over. The world needs to figure out how advanced economies can provide for their people without having roaring growth rates driven by asset bubbles, and how to develop in a way that is ecologically sustainable.
If consumer-driven growth was the order of the day in the post-World War II era, in the new era of Pax Germania it will be steady-state economic growth -- not too fast, but not too slowly -- and producing value-added products that the rest of the world wants to buy.
Utilizing more conservation and renewable energy technologies than the United States, Germany already has reduced its carbon footprint to half that of America's -- and it provides universal health care and has less inequality.
Let's hope Obama and Geithner were listening because the world is no longer automatically following America's lead. Will Americans, so used to thinking of themselves as the mightiest and the best, be able to adjust their attitudes to allow for the change that must occur?
Steven Hill is the author, most recently, of ''Europe's Promise: Why the European Way is the Best Hope in an Insecure Age.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); CONSUMPTION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); ELECTIONS (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (72%); HOUSING BUBBLE (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (66%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (65%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (51%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (50%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (79%); BARACK OBAMA (68%); WOLFGANG SCHAEUBLE (50%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%) UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (96%); CHINA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); JAPAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2010



516 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2349 words

HEADLINE: Dropping the Balls

BYLINE: By SARAH MASLIN NIR

 BODY:
THE cast of the Big Apple Circus burst into the tent for the show's opening number, clad in confetti-bright colors. The big band's trumpets shrilled, and the performers separated by gender into Sharks- and Jets-style packs, snapping and dancing.
A young man in a red T-shirt with a yellow musical note on the chest to match his blond curls stepped into the center of the ring. A spotlight hit on the bandstand, and suddenly there was another young man in a red T-shirt with a yellow musical note on the chest to match his blond curls, 15 feet up on a balustrade. Children in the stands gasped: ''There are two!''
Then, a moment later, the one on the balustrade flipped off his perch onto a springboard and somersaulted midair to meet the other, in center ring, face to face. Martin and Jacob LaSalle, identical twin brothers, pantomimed palm to palm, mirroring each other's movements. They never stopped smiling. 
Halfway through the show, the brothers returned to center ring, transforming it into a whirling, hyperkinetic flurry of juggling pins and flashing grins. The LaSalles, then 24, bounded across the tent with the giddy spring of schoolchildren let out for recess. Seven clubs flipping between them in the lime-lighted dark became eight, then nine, without either twin ever losing a beat or breaking a sweat.
Blink, and Jake, younger by a moment, was suddenly 12 feet tall, standing on Marty's broad shoulders, the pins still circling about the pair like a flock of seabirds. Blink again, and Jake swan-dived off his brother's shoulders and tumbled like a ninja before chucking the last pin. It trailed a faint, white blur in an arc through the dark, home to Marty's broad palm, completing another flawless performance.
The brothers bowed, still in unison.
The scene that unfolded that snowy afternoon in Damrosch Park at Lincoln Center nearly two years ago was repeated daily throughout the LaSalles' debut in the Big Apple's 2008-9 season, and is captured in the six-part PBS documentary ''Circus,'' currently running on Channel 13. But these days, the small screen is the only place to catch their act: The brothers, who started pairs juggling at age 11, won their sport's top medals, performed at National Basketball Association halftime shows, backed up Britney Spears and strutted their stuff in front of tens of millions of viewers at the 2009 Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, no longer appear together.
In fact, during that fantasy year with Big Apple chronicled in ''Circus,'' the LaSalles barely spoke to each other even as they awed audiences in 10 cities and spent upward of eight hours a day practicing and performing side by side. ''At least, like, not for fun,'' Marty said.
THESE days, Marty LaSalle still lives in a trailer at Damrosch Park, working for the circus in guest relations and business development -- he exercises infrequently and has not juggled publicly in 16 months. Jake, meanwhile, is in his second year of medical school at the University of California -- he chose the institution because a top training ground, the San Francisco Circus Center, was across the street, though he, too, now avoids tossing things in the air and catching them.
They had the same genes but different dreams, and that spelled the untimely end of one of the most celebrated young circus acts in recent memory. Two years ago, the brothers said, they were earning $2,600 a week -- combined -- from the circus, and double that from regular side gigs. Now, Marty makes about half as much as he used to, Jake is racking up student loans, and the Big Apple Circus is bereft of this kind of act.
''My vision far exceeded the circus,'' Jake said, but added that juggling can have a healing effect on spectators similar to what he hoped to achieve as a doctor. ''I think that we need to experience joy and we need to be happy and we need to smile, and I think those experiences can be as therapeutic as any surgery.''
Marty just wanted to keep a good thing going. ''To me, the truth is, we do a variety act,'' he said. ''Yeah, you can analyze it and I think there is a significant depth to performance and circus, but I had never approached what I did as this way to change humanity. And he did.''
ABOUT a month after that December 2008 performance, the LaSalle boys bundled into a limousine at the crack of dawn, bound for the ''Fox and Friends'' morning show. It was the anniversary of Elvis Presley's 74th birthday, and the twins would share the stage with a husky version of the King in a white rhinestone suit, belly popping over his belt buckle as they sandwiched him between their flipping clubs.
But 15 seconds before they went live on the air, it was clear that the brothers had not yet agreed on their routine. They ducked behind a door and had a hurried, nearly monosyllabic discussion, seeming proof of that mysterious unspoken communication between twins: ''You. Here. I'll turn. Then, up.''
The tension between them had reached such a boiling point that the LaSalles had moved out of their shared trailer at Damrosch Park and were avoiding each other when not in the ring. ''The least amount of time we can spend with each other is better,'' Marty said. ''It's better for everyone. It's better for us; it's better for the show.''
And yet the pins never wobbled -- in the tent or on the air.
''When the two of you have a brotherly spat, do you ever deliberately try and throw him a ringer?'' asked Gretchen Carlson, a ''Fox and Friends'' anchor, oblivious to the insightfulness of her query.
The brothers' reaction was so stern that Steve Doocy, a co-anchor, interjected, ''We're just kidding, guys!''
Marty began to respond; Jake cut in sharply. ''That's unacceptable in our mind,'' he said. ''We both have a respect for the stage. When we're out there it's pretty easy for us to put whatever issues we are having under the table.''
MARTY and Jake, now 26, had been out of sync for a very long time.
They grew up in semirural Kennett Square, Pa., two of the three sons of high school sweethearts: Barbara, a neonatal nurse, and Randall, a professor of forensic accounting at John Jay College of Criminal Justice. Their younger brother, Ben, 22, a senior at Colorado State University, plans to move to Hawaii and work in sustainable agriculture.
Before juggling, there was gymnastics, which the twins began at age 8. Barbara LaSalle said Jake was inspired by a juggler at a fair two years later; Jake said it began earlier: ''I can't remember a time when I couldn't juggle.''
The brothers practiced every day in the living room and in the backyard; a couple of times a week, they worked out at a juggling club in Philadelphia, and once or twice a month for years they flew to Florida to train with Benji Hill, who has won top prizes from the International Juggling Association. ''We had each other to juggle with, so that was good,'' Jake recalled.
The sport quickly became a defining focus of family life. ''Should we go to the beach for a week? Go to the mountains for a week? Or should we go to a juggling festival?'' Mrs. LaSalle recalled asking her sons. The juggling festival always won. (Ben juggles, too, but as a party trick more than as a passion.)
Pairs juggling mixes gymnastics and physics-defying dexterity, along with subterfuge -- it is critical that the whole thing seem as simple as, well, tossing something in the air and catching it, with not an ounce of visible strain. Marty has always been the base and Jake the flier, because for years Jake was shorter. Marty shot up four inches while sidelined by an injury from competitive gymnastics, which the family believes had stunted their growth; once Jake stopped gymnastics, he caught up.
''At the same time Marty is having to worry about the rhythm and pattern of the juggling, he also has to be concerned about the fact his brother is on his shoulders,'' said Mr. Hill, who trained the LaSalles from the time they were 14. ''You have to be very reserved and relaxed with the juggling moves and exploding with all your effort into the gymnastic moves -- it's very complex.''
Jake's mother said his nature had always bordered on the obsessive: At age 5, he would spend hours on end hunched over his paints, making pictures of minute detail. At one point, she said, his parents offered Jake $1,000 to quit gymnastics. ''I was so sick of the sport,'' she said. ''I was so sick of the injuries. I wanted him to be a kid.'' He declined.
But after their 2003 graduation from Kennett High School, it was Marty who wanted to take a year off to perform, while Jake insisted on college. They ended up going straight to Columbia University. Marty studied economics and Jake was pre-med. They practiced daily in the campus gym, sometimes drawing a crowd. I first glimpsed one of them -- I still cannot be sure which -- in 2006, playing in a furious bout of ultimate Frisbee on a bright, blue day, and became one of many Columbia students intrigued by their good looks and oddball pastime.
SQUARE-JAWED and blue-eyed, the LaSalles have Nordic complexions that under the big top's bright spotlights almost glow milk-white. Their bodies are robust, but their faces, studied outside the tent's kilowattage, have a lived-in quality. Their craggy handsomeness calls to mind the actor Heath Ledger.
Both are six feet tall, broad shouldered and slim-hipped. Both have tightly wound dirty-blond curls cut short across their temples. Both are highly muscled: along the top-line of their arms roll hills and valleys of popping deltoids and taut biceps. Physical differences are slight and subtle; Jake has a mole at the lower left corner of his mouth and, close up, sadder eyes.
But their mother, their trainer and their friends all agree that the mirror images mask two very different people. Even a news release from the Big Apple Circus noted that they ''most certainly have different personalities.''
Growing up, Jake was intense and solitary; Marty gregarious and social, Mrs. LaSalle said. Both boys were passionate about juggling, but Jake was consumed by it. Marty would leave the gym at 6 or 7 p.m., and Jake would stay a few hours longer. Marty also played tennis in high school and attended basketball games and homecoming dances, while Jake spent more time alone.
''Marty, he loved his friends,'' their mother recalled. ''He still had time to do a lot of the 'kid things,' too, where I think Jake didn't get to do those things.''
But if all Jake wanted to do as a child was juggle, when he was an adult juggling full time, it somehow did not satisfy. The Big Apple Circus is the big time, but Jake envisioned more -- parades, world-class theaters and a full roster of lucrative halftime shows, which netted them $3,000 for perhaps 30 minutes of work.
There were tensions over issues large and small. During the six months after college that they spent in Tigerpalast, a European circus, Jake grew frustrated that while he was focused on building business contacts, all Marty ''wanted to do was go to the dance studio and develop his artistic self.'' The next year, when they shared a 30-foot trailer in Damrosch Park, the brothers sparred over cleanliness -- ''I'm a neat person,'' Jake said, ''but he likes the dishes to be cleaned right away'' -- and whether to keep Jake's puppy, Chelsea, in a crate.
There was no dramatic breakup, no painful fight, no one moment -- they just were two young men who had been focused for so long on taking the next step forward on the long march to fame that they did not realize until they got there that they both did not want it the same way.
Thirteen years of ''deferring conflicts because we had a show to do came back to bite us that last year,'' Jake said.
''We were both facing that prospect of asserting ourselves on our own,'' he added. ''Whether or not we would admit it, that was a daunting prospect.''
To Jake, quitting was an act of self-preservation. ''I'm preparing myself for the inevitable,'' he said during the 2008 season, explaining why the brothers were barely speaking. ''Part of me is protecting myself, trying to abstract myself,'' he said, so that when the day came and there is no more juggling, ''it won't be so difficult.''
THE brothers last appeared together on July 15, 2009, in Charlestown, R.I. After a month of silence in the wake of their split, they began to e-mail, and now they frequently exchange text messages.
''In the performance environment,'' Marty said, ''the emotions are intensified, the extremes are more extreme.''
''He knows me better than anyone knows me,'' he added. ''You lose sight of that by focusing on the details.''
Medical school, Jake said, ''has been a very normalizing experience for me.'' He still works out twice a day -- but never with balls or pins. ''I lived it and I've moved on to this next chapter,'' he said. ''That makes it harder to be sad.''
At one point last year, Marty considered business school, pondering questions like one on Harvard's application: ''What have you learned from a mistake?''
''I'm going to think twice next time I put myself into a position where I'm so dependent on someone,'' he said. His voice caught, and then he paused for such a long time that I wondered if he'd forgotten the question.
''You have to rely on people all the time in so many different situations, in so many different contexts and in many different magnitudes,'' Marty said. ''I certainly am going to really fully consider what it means to commit to yourself -- to have someone commit to you and to commit to someone.''
Last week, wearing wire-rimmed spectacles and a crew-neck sweater over a frame slightly smaller than when he was juggling, Marty said he missed the spotlight, but not the rigorous workout regimen. ''It's the first time I can remember waking up and not hurting,'' he said. He still attends many Big Apple Circus shows, but he now sits in the stands, hosting big donors and celebrities. During the day, he works on marketing and strategic partnerships with, for example, food and beverage providers. Someday, he hopes to run his own circus. ''I'm creating the environment for others to perform,'' Marty said, ''for other stories to be told.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IDENTICAL Jake, left, and Marty LaSalle once wowed crowds with their juggling chops. Now, they do not even live on the same coast. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES, TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB1)
 TWIN THREAT: Marty, left, and Jake LaSalle in the Big Apple Circus in 2008. As children in Pennsylvania, below, the boys loved gymnastics. But Jake said, ''I can't remember a time when I couldn't juggle.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); CIRCUSES & CARNIVALS (89%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (74%); CHILDREN (74%); PARADES & MARCHES (73%); BIRDS (69%); THANKSGIVING (65%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (65%); BASKETBALL (60%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (60%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (60%)

COMPANY: BIG APPLE CIRCUS LTD (93%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711190 OTHER PERFORMING ARTS COMPANIES (93%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (93%)

PERSON: BRITNEY SPEARS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010



517 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1758 words

HEADLINE: The Big Squeeze

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE ROSENBLUM

 BODY:
ABE CAVIN QUEZADA, a 22-year-old aspiring music producer, lives with two roommates in a three-bedroom apartment in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. Mr. Cavin Quezada, who works as an unpaid intern at Electric Lady Studios in Greenwich Village, has kind words for his building, a renovated tenement near Marcus Garvey Boulevard, and for his apartment, for which he pays $500 a month and has a 10-by-6-foot bedroom. But as for the neighborhood, he is less enthusiastic.
''Before this I was living in a loft in Bushwick,'' said Mr. Cavin Quezada, who grew up outside Washington. ''This apartment is nicer, and has more amenities, but the neighborhood is noticeably fishier. In Bushwick, I never really felt threatened. Now, the sounds around are more aggressive. I'll see 20 guys ride by on motorcycles, or hear gunshots outside my window.
''And one day,'' he said, ''in the middle of a Sunday afternoon, I saw a guy on a motorcycle with a handgun. It was not a reassuring sight.'' 
Mr. Cavin Quezada often works until 2 a.m. or later, and the first few nights after moving here, he considered asking one of his roommates to meet him at the subway after work and walk him back to the apartment.
Does his mother, who's paying his rent, worry about him? ''I don't think I've given her enough details for her to worry,'' Mr. Cavin Quezada said.
New York City was home to nearly 1.28 million people in their 20s last year, up from 1.21 million in 1980. In many respects, Mr. Cavin Quezada's situation mirrors the way large numbers in that age group are living, three years after the Great Recession began.
To be sure, earlier generations had their share of hard-luck housing stories. But statistical evidence suggests that today's new arrivals have a tougher struggle to live well, or even adequately, compared with their counterparts of just a decade ago. Battered by the one-two punch of persistent unemployment and the city's high housing costs, they are squeezing into ever smaller spaces and living in neighborhoods once considered dicey and remote.
They are doubling, tripling, quadrupling and even quintupling up. According to the New York City Planning Department, 46 percent of New Yorkers in their 20s who moved to the city from out of state between 2006 and 2008 lived with people to whom they were not related, up from 36 percent in 2000.
Moving back in with parents is fast becoming the new normal. Those who do fly the family nest are paying an ever larger percentage of their often meager income for rent. Between 2006 and 2008, according to the Planning Department, the portion of New Yorkers in their 20s who moved to the city from other states and who paid at least 35 percent of their income for rent was 42 percent, up from 39 percent in 2000.
Even young people in high-paying fields like finance have to make sacrifices. There's the investment banker who can afford only a 450-square-foot studio, and the financial analyst who lives in a third-floor walk-up studio illegally divided into two rooms.
In the words of Allison Gumbel, a 28-year-old photographer who lives in a third-floor walk-up in Clinton Hill, Brooklyn: ''There's always a compromise. And when I say compromise, I don't just mean that you don't have nice floors or good light.''
Still young adults swarm to the city, especially those eager to pursue careers in finance, the arts, media and other fields for which New York has long served as the nation's heart. They come to find work, to find one another and to hang out in neighborhoods like Williamsburg and the Lower East Side that have become almost geographic extensions of college dorm life. Here are some tales from the front lines.
Stefan Rurak, 26, a furniture maker, has lived for two years in a former furniture store in Greenpoint, Brooklyn. His roommate has the front room; Mr. Rurak has the 9-by-12-foot windowless space in the rear, for which he pays $325 a month. The arrangement isn't legal, but it allows Mr. Rurak, an Oberlin graduate who moved to New York five years ago, to pursue work he loves.
''I really lucked out,'' he said. ''Without a doubt, I couldn't be doing what I'm doing now without this space.''
''Like every artist,'' he added, ''I came to New York after college. I never planned on staying this long, but I did various things. I worked in construction, I worked as an art handler. Opportunities came up.
''It's not that I like New York so much. But things happen here that wouldn't happen in other places.''
And he has only good things to say about his neighborhood. ''It's not like Williamsburg, at least not yet,'' he said. ''You don't see all those college kids in tight pants. It's not quote unquote hot.''
Sam Tolman, a 21-year-old with a passion for cinema, lives with his brother, Henry, 23, in a two-story house on 246th Street in Riverdale, in the far northwestern Bronx. The house is owned by the grandmother of a family friend, who still lives there, and the brothers split the $500 rent for their first-floor space.
''We're very lucky,'' said Sam Tolman, who earned enough working as a waiter last summer to cover three months of his share of the rent. ''We have a living room, a kitchen, a bathroom.'' Each brother has his own bedroom. Visiting friends from Providence, R.I., where the Tolmans grew up, marvel at how much space they have.
Sam Tolman has two internships. He edits video for the Web site of the magazine published by Frank151, and he is part of the video team of BreakThru Radio, an Internet radio station. The first job is unpaid; the second provides a weekly stipend of $50.
But the commute is punishing. To get to his Frank151 job, which starts at 11 a.m., Mr. Tolman leaves the house at 9:30 and walks 15 minutes to catch the No. 7 bus. That takes him to the No. 1 train, from which he switches to the 2, the L and the R before arriving at his office.
The commute also crimps his social life.
''I'm really grateful to have a nice place for such a low cost,'' Mr. Tolman said. ''But I don't feel as if I'm part of the city. Most of my friends are in Manhattan, and going out is a pain.''
Still, he added cheerfully, the arrangement suits him for now. ''I love my jobs,'' he said. ''This is the price you pay to live in New York. To have what I want, you have to suffer a bit.''
Sarah Walsh, a 24-year-old from Rye, N.Y., lives in what she describes as a ''crummy little apartment,'' a third-floor walk-up on Ludlow Street on the Lower East Side. She has two roommates, and her share of the rent is $800.
''I was extraordinarily lucky to find it,'' said Ms. Walsh, who earns about $40,000 a year as a fund-raiser for Birthright Israel Foundation, a nonprofit organization. ''I felt like I looked at a thousand apartments.''
The downside is that her room is just 6 1/2 by 8 1/2 feet. Because there's no closet, she keeps her clothes in an armoire in the living room.
''I could have lived at home, in a giant room with a closet,'' Ms. Walsh said. ''But it's so much fun to live in the city, to buy your own groceries. You make sacrifices to live here. If you want to be in Manhattan, it means a smaller apartment.''
For Andrea Fisher, who is one of Ms. Walsh's roommates and also grew up in Rye, it means an even tinier room, one with space for no more than a twin bed, a foot-square night table, a bookshelf and a laundry hamper. She has a small closet, but puts most of her clothes in the drawers under the bed, which she calls ''a lifesaver.'' Her rent, because she has the smallest bedroom, is $700 a month.
''It is small,'' admitted Ms. Fisher, who is 24 and works for the Artists Rights Society, a group that represents artists dealing with copyright issues. But the appeal of the neighborhood compensates for the tight quarters.
''Besides,'' she said, ''you're not looking to just hang out in your room.''
Ms. Fisher, who has outfitted her space with posters from art fairs and a rug she made when she worked for a textile designer, is completing work for a graduate degree at the Fashion Institute of Technology. Writing a thesis in a cubbyhole, she has discovered, can be a challenge.
''If you don't have a desk,'' she said, ''it's not as conducive to working. There's no room to work in the living room, so I work and eat at the kitchen table.
''But I'm so proud I can support myself, and have an apartment on the Lower East Side that I can afford,'' she said. Again and again she returned to the appeal of living in this part of the city.
''The neighborhood is definitely the best part,'' she said. ''There are tons of bars and restaurants, and the F train is right there, so it's easy to get anywhere. Plus, as a girl, you never feel like you're not safe. You can come home at 4 in the morning and the streets are filled with people.
''We had a mouse,'' she acknowledged. ''But if you live on the Lower East Side, you'll always have a mouse.''
Ms. Gumbel, the 28-year-old photographer, pays $1,200 a month for her one-bedroom apartment in a renovated brownstone in Clinton Hill.
''It's a nice apartment,'' said Ms. Gumbel, who works as an office manager at Meyer Davis Studio, an interior design firm. But her subway trains, the G and the C, are routinely rated as among the city's worst, and her commute to her office in SoHo, ''which should be easy,'' she said, takes 45 minutes. Still, she has no desire to leave New York.
''I studied fine arts,'' said Ms. Gumbel, who graduated from Pratt Institute and has held many photo-related jobs. ''I'm here for the art scene.''
Ben Craw, a friend of Ms. Gumbel's, lives with two friends in a four-story walk-up on Lorimer Street in Williamsburg. Mr. Craw, who is also 28, earns about $40,000 a year as a video editor for The Huffington Post. He chose the smallest of the three bedrooms, just 6 by 8 feet, because at just $534 a month it was the cheapest.
''I have a bed, a desk wedged between the bed and the wall, a folding chair, a window with a great view of the skyline,'' he said. ''That's really all I need. I don't have a lot of worldly possessions.''
For three young men with strong legs and simple needs, the apartment suffices. Mr. Craw uses his quarters mostly for sleeping and working on his laptop. And he can't imagine being anyplace but the city.
''Ever since I was a little kid,'' said Mr. Craw, who grew up in Fairfield County in Connecticut, ''I always loved New York. I couldn't wait to get out of my house. In terms of the jobs I wanted, the social life I wanted, I didn't care where I lived as long as it was in the city. I wasn't sure what I wanted to do, but I knew that whatever it was, it would be most possible here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ABE CAVIN QUEZADA: AGE: 22 NEIGHBORHOOD: Bed-Stuy, Brooklyn SITUATION: Pays $500 a month for a 6-by-10 bedroom
has concerns about safety.
SARAH WALSH: AGE: 24 NEIGHBORHOOD: Lower East Side SITUATION: Pays $800 for 6-by-8 room in third-floor walkup
no closet. 'You make sacrifices to live here.'
SAM TOLMAN: AGE: 21 NEIGHBORHOOD: Riverdale, the Bronx SITUATION: Splits $500 rent with brother
commutes 90 minutes each way. Location limits his social life. (RE1)
ALLISON GUMBEL: AGE: 28 NEIGHBORHOOD: Clinton Hill, Brooklyn SITUATION: $1,200 a month for a one-bedroom walk-up
45-minute commute each way.
BEN CRAW: AGE: 28 NEIGHBORHOOD: Williamsburg, Brooklyn SITUATION: Shares a walk-up with two friends
rent for a 6-by-8 bedroom is $534.
ANDREA FISHER: AGE: 24 NEIGHBORHOOD: Lower East Side SITUATION: Her $700-a-month room has space for only a twin bed, a nightstand, a hamper and a bookshelf.
 STEFAN RURAK: AGE: 26 NEIGHBORHOOD: Greenpoint, Brooklyn SITUATION: Pays $325 a month for a windowless bedroom in a former store. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (77%); CITY LIFE (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); CITIES (64%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (62%); RECESSION (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



518 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; JOURNEYS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: 'Please Refrain From Tantrums Onboard'

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS QUENQUA

 BODY:
FOR many people, it is the second biggest fear of flying: sitting next to a screaming, kicking, uncontrollable child.
Particularly if that child isn't theirs.
Next to landing hastily on something other than a runway, sharing the cabin with a fussy toddler is about the worst luck many travelers can imagine. And as the economy and security regulations conspire to squeeze the comforts out of air travel -- lines are long, flights are full and increasingly devoid of amenities -- the sound of a baby's wail can be the breaking point for already frayed nerves.
Now, travelers without children are doing some fussing of their own. Some are calling for airlines to implement child-free flights, or designate ''family-only'' sections on planes, in the wake of some high-profile tantrums. 
In July, Qantas settled a lawsuit from a woman who claimed that she suffered hearing loss after sitting next to a screaming 3-year-old boy on a 2009 flight from New York to Australia. (Terms of the settlement were not disclosed.) In January, AirTran removed an entire family from a flight before takeoff from Fort Myers, Fla., because their 3-year-old girl was hitting the parents, making noise and refusing to take her seat. And in March, a 42-year-old woman allegedly grabbed a boy (3 years old, again) for kicking her chair during a Southwest flight to Las Vegas.
While few travelers would advocate outright assault, a survey of 2,000 travelers released by Skyscanner, a fare-comparison site, in August found that 59 percent of passengers support creating special sections on flights for families. Nearly 20 percent said they would like to see airlines offer child-free flights.
The survey brought widespread attention to such ideas, which had long been simmering on message boards, blogs and other bastions of complaint.
''I would gladly pay extra for a child-free flight,'' said Ian Burford, a frequent flier from Boston who recently started a Facebook group called Airlines Should Have Kid-Free Flights. ''Or at least if they made it easier when booking a flight to say 'I don't want to be seated next to a 1-year-old.' That would be helpful.''
Mr. Burford said he started his group (two members and counting) after suffering through a flight from Los Angeles to England seated behind a screaming child.
''The parents were not doing a thing to stop it,'' he said. ''They were just sort of weakly smiling and giggling like, 'Oh, what can you do?' But give them a pacifier, do something to make them stop.''
It would be easy to dismiss the demands for separating children on flights if they were coming only from the childless. But many parents support the idea as well.
A family-only section would give children and parents the freedom to ''chat, watch Nickelodeon and laugh out loud,'' read a recent post on Madame Noire, a blog catering to African-American women. ''And yes, the kids can cry if they want to.''
After all, ''do childless passengers really think it's all gravy when parents can't calm down their screaming child?'' the post continued. ''It's just as stressful for the parent as it is for the child and the other passengers, but it's a fact: kids cry.''
The idea even has some precedence in Congress: In 2007, Rep. Heath Shuler, a Democratic congressman from North Carolina, introduced legislation that would force airlines to create a family-only section on planes. His motivation, however, was protecting young eyes from the sometimes-violent films shown on commercial flights. (The bill gained some media attention, but has yet to come to the floor for a vote.)
But all the crying in the world -- from children or adults -- isn't likely to persuade the airlines to offer child-free flights, said David Castelveter, spokesman for the Air Transport Association, a trade group representing America's largest airlines.
''This is an industry that's working very hard to return to profitability,'' he said. ''No way is any airline going to discourage someone from taking one flight over another. I just can't see that happening.''
Even if the airlines were awash in profits, the logistics of operating a large airline would still make the idea difficult to implement, he said. ''There are many markets in this country where airlines offer one, maybe two flights a day,'' Mr. Castelveter said. ''You're now going to limit people from flying one of those times? As a parent, I would be pretty annoyed if I were forced to take an 8 a.m. flight instead of one at noon.''
Family-only sections would present their own set of headaches, he said, and are just as unlikely to become reality. ''What about the person who says, 'I want to sit up front, but my son wants to sit with the family?' '' he said. ''What about last-minute plane substitutions, where instead of 12 rows for families you suddenly have only 7?''
And like many people, Mr. Castelveter points out that separating passengers based on age puts the airlines on a slippery slope. Does anyone really want to be forced to sit in the obese-only section? Why not elderly-free flights?
Mr. Castelveter said he has heard the discussion around the issue, but insists it's only a ''small minority'' who are complaining. He says he has heard no discussion about the topic among the airlines.
Indeed, in what is perhaps a sign of just how sensitive the topic is, neither Delta, Southwest, AirTran, US Airways nor Qantas replied to requests for comment for this article. An American Airlines spokeswoman said only, ''We do not offer child-free flights'' in an e-mail message.
Which still doesn't mean it couldn't happen. Should demand for child-free flights reach critical mass, there is nothing stopping some crafty entrepreneur from launching an adults-only airline. Sound far-fetched? Consider that Pet Airways now offers ''pawsengers'' weekly flights to several American cities. And even Hooters Air, which brought the restaurant's winning formula of buffalo wings and under-dressed waitresses to the sky, generated enough interest to survive from 2003 to 2006.
Until then, it is perhaps best to heed the advice of Anya Clowers, a registered nurse and proprietor of JetWithKids.com, a blog about flying drama-free with children.
''Everyone has to do their best to self-contain,'' she said. For parents, that means anticipating your child's needs, such as snacks, distractions and sleep. If your child is old enough, consider giving him or her a role during the flight, she said, such as official seat belt fastener. And inquire about sitting in the last row of the plane, where your child ''won't have as much of an audience,'' should he or she act up.
The most important thing for parents to do is stay calm, said Mrs. Clowers, who says she has taken her 6-year-old son to 17 countries without incident. ''Kids pick up on their parents' stress,'' she said. Avoid letting the hassles of air travel get to you, and you just might head off a tantrum.
That goes for childless travelers, too. ''They need to respect that this may be someone's family vacation, or someone may be going to their parents' funeral,'' Mrs. Clowers said.
So consider traveling with noise-canceling headphones, she advised, ''and try to remember: plenty of business travelers are annoying, too.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDRE LETRIA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AIR FARES (89%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (78%); FAMILY (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); LITIGATION (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (52%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT MYERS, FL, USA (55%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (51%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010



519 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: In Camden, New Troubles On Top of Old

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
CAMDEN, N.J. -- This city closed its dilapidated central library in the 1980s and never provided the money for restoration or demolition. So the landmark building rots on its weed-choked lot, with most of the roof caved in and a large tree growing up through its middle. ''It could be a metaphor for the city,'' said Jerome Szpila, the city library director.
If so, perhaps the tree is about to fall over. Last week, Camden's mayor, Dana L. Redd, submitted to the state a plan to lay off hundreds of employees -- possibly more than one-third of the city's work force, including police officers and firefighters.
Camden has long been a national symbol of urban blight and mismanagement, and for seven years was effectively run by a chief operating officer appointed by the governor, prompting cries of disenfranchisement. But when the state ended the arrangement this year, any sense of jubilation among residents was overpowered by bad timing. 
The state's reign, which fell far short of its promises to improve this city, ended amid a deep economic slump, and was quickly followed by sharp cuts in state aid to municipalities. Navigating these stormy seas fell to a new and untested leader, Ms. Redd, who was elected a year ago, when the mayor was little more than a figurehead.
Camden drew national attention recently, when officials said this city of 79,000 people might become the largest in the country without a public library -- a threat that was put on hold, though one of three branches closed. But the distress goes far beyond libraries. Ms. Redd, 42, a former councilwoman and state senator, cut the city's budget by nearly one-quarter, furloughed workers one day a week and warned that every department would send out pink slips in December.
Ms. Redd has called city employees to what promises to be an emotional forum on Monday at City Hall. City officials refused to say how many layoffs were in the plan Ms. Redd sent to the state, in part because they were still trying to reduce the number by squeezing wage and benefit concessions from unions. Last month, the mayor suggested that she might cut as many as 500 of the 1,100 jobs in the city's work force, including nearly half of its Police and Fire Departments, but officials now say the figure proposed to the state is lower.
Even so, fiscal watchdogs and labor leaders say that layoffs would certainly be in the hundreds. ''We have met with the unions about seven times, and we're willing to meet with them as much as it takes,'' said Marc Riondino, the city attorney. ''If there's concessions, we can back off the number.''
Camden residents are particularly fearful that in a city with one of the nation's highest crime rates, reducing the number of police officers would clear the field for gangs and drug dealers. ''I already tell my kids to come inside to stay safe, and it's just going to get worse,'' said Mariel Sosa, who lives in North Camden.
Helene Pierson, executive director of Heart of Camden, a housing group, said, ''I had hopes that Mayor Redd could come into office and really tackle some change, but now it's a huge challenge just to preserve basic services.''
Mr. Riondino said the Police Department would be reorganized and some functions would be cut, but he insisted that the number of officers patrolling the streets would not decline.
Other city governments in New Jersey are shrinking, but no other community is cutting as deeply as Camden, and none started with greater needs.
New Jersey is among the wealthiest states, but Camden is, by some measures, the nation's poorest city with more than 50,000 people. It has the lowest median family income, about $27,000, and the highest rate of families living in poverty: 36 percent. The landscape is pockmarked by thousands of empty lots where abandoned houses have been torn down, and by thousands of boarded-up structures awaiting demolition. Nineteenth-century sewers break regularly and need replacing, but the task is far beyond the city's means.
In January, with only a few months' warning, the state relinquished control of Camden two years ahead of schedule, just as Ms. Redd, who declined requests for an interview, was taking office.
Camden depends more heavily on state aid than any other city in New Jersey, drawing more than two-thirds of last year's budget from Trenton. In June, as the state struggled to balance its own budget gap, Gov. Chris Christie and the Legislature cut back on municipal aid across the board, particularly money earmarked for the poorest cities.
In response, Camden adopted a $138.8 million budget, down $39 million from last year's, and the mayor warned that even that figure might be too optimistic. Many city workers are fearful -- and many spoke about it on the condition their names not be used, lest that put them higher on the layoff list.
''How am I going to get another job in this economy?'' asked a firefighter who believes he will be dismissed. ''I can't even move somewhere else because I can't sell my house.''
Connie Jackson worked for the city for 17 years before leaving to run a construction company. ''These people are scared to death,'' she said, pointing to City Hall. ''There are people who might lose their homes just with the furloughs.''
Richard Harris, a political science professor at Rutgers University's Camden campus, called it ''a fiscal calamity,'' predicting that city functions including public safety and sewer repair would be undermined.
But City Hall watchers also acknowledge that money is not the only problem in a place where, in the three years before the state takeover, two mayors were convicted of criminal charges.
''There is a history of corruption, waste, mismanagement, incompetence and more corruption,'' said Colandus Francis, who heads the Camden City Taxpayers Association. While the downsizing will be wrenching and some services will suffer, he said, the city could manage on its reduced budget if it were run well. ''People got used to the idea that no matter what, the state was going to bail us out. Well, that's over.''
The takeover is now widely seen as a missed opportunity. The state invested $175 million in Camden, but most of the money went to a few big projects -- like expanding a hospital and an aquarium, and building a law school -- that were backed by leaders of the Democratic political machine that runs South Jersey. Much less went into neighborhood improvements like removing abandoned houses that shelter drug users and rats.
City expenses rose under state control, but the tax base did not, and contrary to state assurances, the police force shrank.
''It's not that the things they did with the money were bad, and they did create some good jobs, though not enough,'' said Stephen Singer, former executive director of CamConnect, a nonprofit group that collects data to track the state of the city. ''But they hardly did anything about these massive needs that you have to deal with to create a foundation for everything else -- the crime, the schools. Fixing the sewers alone would have cost much more than the state spent on the entire effort.''
So far, community leaders and people who study local politics are unsure what to make of Ms. Redd. They call her smart and tireless, but they are wary because her political career has been sponsored by the machine led by George Norcross, South Jersey's most powerful Democrat.
''She was part of the system that put state control in place, messed it up and then took it away,'' said Howard Gillette, a Rutgers-Camden professor of urban history. ''But she took on an impossible job. We'll see how she does.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CLOSED: A library building left to rot. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED OU/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB1)
HARD TIMES: Top, boarded-up houses abound in Camden, N.J. Above, Mayor Dana Redd has submitted a plan to lay off hundreds of employees. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ED OU/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JOHN ZIOMEK, COURIER-POST, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (MB9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITIES (89%); LIBRARIES (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (75%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); GOVERNORS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); BUDGET CUTS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010



520 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; SQUARE FEET THE 30-MINUTE INTERVIEW; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: David J. Wine

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Mr. Wine, 52, is the managing partner of Oliver's Realty Group, a development, investment and brokerage company that he started in September, after 32 years at the Related Companies. Mr. Wine was Related's vice chairman, and some of his most notable projects there included the Time Warner Center residences and the Superior Ink condominiums and town houses in the West Village.
Q Why leave Related now? Did anything precipitate your departure? 
A There was no one event. I had a tremendous relationship with Steve Ross and the other principals. It was just a feeling that after 30-plus years it was time.
Through my career, I have been involved in almost every aspect of residential real estate -- from affordable housing to luxury housing to superluxury housing, and from rentals to condominiums -- and I felt it was the time to branch out and select those projects that excited me.
Q Did you have to sign a noncompetition agreement?
A We had handshakes -- we didn't have formal written agreements. I think Related will pursue many types of deals that I certainly would not be pursuing.
Q Do you still have ties there?
A Even though I'm no longer an employee of Related, that doesn't negate my ownership in the buildings I worked on. When I started at Related it was very, very small, and as we built buildings, I became an equity partner in those buildings. I also own individual apartments in Manhattan -- most in Related properties -- which I have rented out.
Q Are these properties part of the new company's portfolio?
A Oliver's Realty Group is owned by my holding company, Oliver's Company, which I started in 1995, and the holding company has ownership of these properties. You grow your portfolio alongside your activities with Related.
Q Is the goal of Oliver's Realty to develop and market residences?
A Correct.
Q Your first development --a modern oceanfront home in Bridgehampton -- was just sold.
A It went for shy of $14.5 million; the list price was $14.95 million. It was on the market eight weeks.
Q How many employees do you have at Oliver's Realty?
A Two. Including me. But I've tried to form alliances to expand my capabilities.
Q Are you working on any partnership deals?
A One of the things that I've been working on has been the Hunters Point South request for proposals by the city for a mixed-income development in Hunters Point, Queens. I am part of one of the bidding teams, with BFC Partners and Washington Square Partners. The city will hopefully decide in the next few months, and have a short list by year end.
Q You're also part of something called the Trio Partnership to invest in distressed opportunities.
A Correct. With Robert Levine of RAL Companies -- he and I were introduced by my college roommate -- along with Pam Samuels, formerly of Extell Development. As a team, we can go after a myriad of opportunities.
Q But are there any?
A There are definitely opportunities. The challenge is to distinguish between those that are challenging and sustainable and those that are dead ends. We are in discussions with lenders to take over failed deals that they have taken back from the developer. We are also in discussions with developers who need additional expertise and capital to achieve their plans. We're evaluating 10 different projects.
Q One the biggest projects of your career was Time Warner Center. Was it most challenging?
A It was certainly the most challenging and one of my most significant achievements. The attorney general accepted an offering plan for Time Warner Center within weeks of the 9/11 tragedy. That added a whole other dimension of challenge, both as a real estate professional and as a New Yorker, because the success of the Time Warner Center really followed New York's coming back from those events. It was a one-of-a-kind development, and it set the stage for the explosion of high-end housing.
Q Do you own any units there?
A No.
Q Oliver's Realty was named for your son. Is this the start of a family real estate dynasty?
A Wouldn't that be great! Oliver just turned 21 and he's studying economics. I'm very pleased to say that he has been interning at a real estate office in the Chicago area, where he goes to college.
Q So what did Oliver think about having a company named after him?
A Oliver asked for business cards and a title, because he told me that it would be easier to pick up girls. So he's a senior associate. We had a good laugh about it!
Interview conducted and condensed by VIVIAN MARINO

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); COVENANTS NOT TO COMPETE (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (77%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010



521 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 177 words

HEADLINE: THE CHATTER

 BODY:
''It's time to lay it out on the table and let the American people start to chew on it.''Alan K. Simpson, co-chairman of a bipartisan commission on reducing the national debt, on the panel's wide-ranging proposal for spending cuts and tax increases. 
''I grasp the mantle of Milton Friedman.'' Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, asserting that the Fed is following the precepts of the late economist and Nobel laureate. ''There's something for everybody.'' Jennifer Crane, of the asset-forfeiture division of the United States Marshals Service, about its auction of household and other items of Bernard L. Madoff.
''It's in effect a protest vote.'' Abhay Deshpande, a portfolio manager with First Eagle Funds, on how investors are using gold ''as a hiding place in times of currency turmoil.''''It is not acceptable to treat passengers as terrorists until they prove themselves innocent.'' Giovanni Bisignani of the International Air Transport Association, on how airlines would like to see an overhaul of the checkpoint screening process at airports.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); AIRPORTS (71%); TAX LAW (71%); NOBEL PRIZES (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); MARSHALS (68%); CIVIL AVIATION (65%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (65%); ASSET FORFEITURE (57%); TERRORISM (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MARSHALS SERVICE (57%); INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%); BERNARD MADOFF (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010



522 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 7891 words

HEADLINE: The Hacker Who Went Into The Cold

BYLINE: By JAMES VERINI. 
James Verini is a writer in New York. This is his first article for the magazine.

 BODY:
One night in July 2003, a little before midnight, a plainclothes N.Y.P.D. detective, investigating a series of car thefts in upper Manhattan, followed a suspicious-looking young man with long, stringy hair and a nose ring into the A.T.M. lobby of a bank. Pretending to use one of the machines, the detective watched as the man pulled a debit card from his pocket and withdrew hundreds of dollars in cash. Then he pulled out another card and did the same thing. Then another, and another. The guy wasn't stealing cars, but the detective figured he was stealing something. 
Indeed, the young man was in the act of ''cashing out,'' as he would later admit. He had programmed a stack of blank debit cards with stolen card numbers and was withdrawing as much cash as he could from each account. He was doing this just before 12 a.m., because that's when daily withdrawal limits end, and a ''casher'' can double his take with another withdrawal a few minutes later. To throw off anyone who might later look at surveillance footage, the young man was wearing a woman's wig and a costume-jewelry nose ring. The detective asked his name, and though the man went by many aliases on the Internet -- sometimes he was cumbajohny, sometimes segvec, but his favorite was soupnazi -- he politely told the truth. ''Albert Gonzalez,'' he said.
After Gonzalez was arrested, word quickly made its way to the New Jersey U.S. attorney's office in Newark, which, along with agents from the Secret Service's Electronic Crimes Task Force, had been investigating credit- and debit-card fraud involving cashers in the area, without much luck. Gonzalez was debriefed and soon found to be a rare catch. Not only did he have data on millions of card accounts stored on the computer back in his New Jersey apartment, but he also had a knack for patiently explaining his expertise in online card fraud. As one former Secret Service agent told me, Gonzalez was extremely intelligent. ''He knew computers. He knew fraud. He was good.''
Gonzalez, law-enforcement officials would discover, was more than just a casher. He was a moderator and rising star on Shadowcrew.com, an archetypal criminal cyberbazaar that sprang up during the Internet-commerce boom in the early 2000s. Its users trafficked in databases of stolen card accounts and devices like magnetic strip-encoders and card-embossers; they posted tips on vulnerable banks and stores and effective e-mail scams. Created by a part-time student in Arizona and a former mortgage broker in New Jersey, Shadowcrew had hundreds of members across the United States, Europe and Asia. It was, as one federal prosecutor put it to me, ''an eBay, Monster.com and MySpace for cybercrime.''
After a couple of interviews, Gonzalez agreed to help the government so he could avoid prosecution. ''I was 22 years old and scared,'' he'd tell me later. ''When you have a Secret Service agent in your apartment telling you you'll go away for 20 years, you'll do anything.''
He was also good-natured and helpful. ''He was very respectable, very nice, very calm, very well spoken,'' says the Secret Service agent who would come to know Gonzalez best, Agent Michael (a nickname derived from his real name). ''In the beginning, he was quiet and reserved, but then he started opening up. He started to trust us.''
The agents won his trust in part by paying for his living expenses while they brought him to their side and by waiting for Gonzalez to work through his withdrawal. An intermittent drug addict, Gonzalez had been taking cocaine and modafinil, an antinarcoleptic, to keep awake during his long hours at the computer. To decompress, he liked Ecstasy and ketamine. At first, a different agent told me, ''he was extremely thin; he smoked a lot, his clothes were disheveled. Over time, he gained weight, started cutting his hair shorter and shaving every day. It was having a good effect on his health.'' The agent went on to say: ''He could be very disarming, if you let your guard down. I was well aware that I was dealing with a master of social engineering and deception. But I never got the impression he was trying to deceive us.''
Gonzalez's gift for deception, however, is precisely what made him one of the most valuable cybercrime informants the government has ever had. After his help enabled officials to indict more than a dozen members of Shadowcrew, Gonzalez's minders at the Secret Service urged him to move back to his hometown, Miami, for his own safety. (It was not hard for Shadowcrew users to figure out that the one significant figure among their ranks who hadn't been arrested was probably the unnamed informant in court documents.) After aiding another investigation, he became a paid informant in the Secret Service field office in Miami in early 2006. Agent Michael was transferred to Miami, and he worked with Gonzalez on a series of investigations on which Gonzalez did such a good job that the agency asked him to speak at seminars and conferences. ''I shook the hand of the head of the Secret Service,'' Gonzalez told me. ''I gave a presentation to him.'' As far as the agency knew, that's all he was doing. ''It seemed he was trying to do the right thing,'' Agent Michael said.
He wasn't. Over the course of several years, during much of which he worked for the government, Gonzalez and his crew of hackers and other affiliates gained access to roughly 180 million payment-card accounts from the customer databases of some of the most well known corporations in America: OfficeMax, BJ's Wholesale Club, Dave & Buster's restaurants, the T. J. Maxx and Marshalls clothing chains. They hacked into Target, Barnes & Noble, JCPenney, Sports Authority, Boston Market and 7-Eleven's bank-machine network. In the words of the chief prosecutor in Gonzalez's case, ''The sheer extent of the human victimization caused by Gonzalez and his organization is unparalleled.''
At his sentencing hearing in March, where he received two concurrent 20-year terms, the longest sentence ever handed down to an American for computer crimes, the judge said, ''What I found most devastating was the fact that you two-timed the government agency that you were cooperating with, and you were essentially like a double agent.''
IN APRIL, I visited Gonzalez at the Wyatt Detention Center in Central Falls, R.I., situated by a river and a pleasant place as jails go. Once muscular and tan, Gonzalez, who turned 27 and 28 behind bars, was pallid and thin. His khaki uniform hung on him baggily, and his eyes were bloodshot behind wire-rim glasses. Occasionally a mischievous smile played on his face; otherwise, he looked through the wire-glass partition with a sympathetic but inscrutably intense stare.
He didn't want to talk about his crimes at first, so in a soft voice he told me about his ex-girlfriend, who had stopped visiting him (''I can't blame her''), about what he'd been reading (''Stalingrad,'' by Antony Beevor; ''Into Thin Air,'' by Jon Krakauer; essays by Ralph Waldo Emerson), about his thoughts on recent high-profile computer breaches in the news. The public's ignorance about his chosen criminal field baffled him. He had become a fan of National Public Radio at Wyatt, and had recently listened to a discussion of hackers on ''Fresh Air.'' (''Terry Gross is a great host,'' he wrote me earlier in a letter, but ''these authors and co-authors can't possibly be making decent earnings. Are they?'') He talked about his childhood and family. His father, Alberto Sr., is a landscaper who as a young man left Cuba on a raft and was picked up by a Coast Guard cutter in the Florida straits. He and Albert share a birthday with Gonzalez's 5-year-old nephew, ''whom I love more than anyone in this world,'' Gonzalez said. His nephew's mother, Maria, Gonzalez's sister and only sibling, ''always learned by listening to our parents' advice.'' He didn't.
Gonzalez bought his first PC, with his own money, when he was 12. He took an interest in computer security after it was infected with a downloaded virus. ''We had to call the technician who sold it to us, and he came over,'' he said in one letter. ''I had all these questions for him: 'How do I defend myself from this? Why would someone do this?' '' He got over his indignation easily enough, and by the time he was 14 had hacked into NASA, which resulted in a visit by F.B.I. agents to his South Miami high school. Undeterred, Gonzalez formed a cooperative of ''black hats'' -- curiosity-driven hackers with an antiauthoritarian bent -- and acquired a reputation. He gave an interview to the online magazine ZDNet under his new screen name, soupnazi: ''Defacing a site to me is showing the admins [and] government . . . that go to the site that we own them,'' he said. On the side he was also purchasing clothing and CDs online with stolen credit-card numbers. He ordered the merchandise delivered to empty houses in Miami, and then had a friend drive him to pick it up during lunch period.
By the time he dropped out of Miami Dade College during his freshman year, Gonzalez had taught himself, by reading software manuals, how to hack into Internet service providers for free broadband. He discovered he could go further than that and co-opted the log-ins and passwords of managers and executives. ''On their computers would always be a huge stash of good information, network diagrams, write ups,'' he said, audibly enthralled at the memory. ''I would learn about the system architecture. It was as if I was an employee.''
Gonzalez's closest friend, Stephen Watt, who is now serving a two-year prison sentence for coding a software program that helped Gonzalez steal card data, describes Gonzalez as having ''a Sherlock Holmes quality to him that is bounded only by his formal education.'' Like the other hackers who would go on to form the inner circle of Gonzalez's criminal organization, Watt met Gonzalez when both were teenagers, on EFnet, an Internet relay chat network frequented by black hats. Watt and Gonzalez interacted strictly online for a year, though each lived in South Florida. Once they began spending time together, in Florida and New York, Watt, who is 27, noticed that Gonzalez's talents as an online criminal carried over into his life away from the computer. ''He could spot wedding rings at 50 yards. He could spot a Patek Philippe at 50 yards. He would have been a world-class interrogator. He was very good at figuring out when people were lying.''
Like many hackers, Gonzalez moved easily between the licit and illicit sides of computer security. Before his first arrest, in the A.T.M. lobby, Gonzalez made his way from Miami to the Northeast after he hacked into a New Jersey-based Internet company and then persuaded it to hire him to its security team. The transition from fraudster to informant was not too different.
After he agreed in 2003 to become an informant, Gonzalez helped the Justice Department and the Secret Service build, over the course of a year, an ingenious trap for Shadowcrew. Called Operation Firewall, it was run out of a makeshift office in an Army repair garage in Jersey City. Gonzalez was its linchpin. Through him, the government came to, in hacker lingo, own Shadowcrew, as undercover buyers infiltrated the network and traced its users around the world; eventually, officials even managed to transfer the site onto a server controlled by the Secret Service. Meanwhile, Gonzalez patiently worked his way up the Shadowcrew ranks. He persuaded its users to communicate through a virtual private network, or VPN, a secure channel that sends encrypted messages between computers, that he introduced onto the site. This VPN, designed by the Secret Service, came with a special feature: a court-ordered wiretap.
Gonzalez worked alongside the agents, sometimes all day and into the night, for months on end. Most called him Albert. A couple of them who especially liked him called him Soup, after his old screen-name soupnazi. ''Spending this much time with an informant this deeply into a cybercrime conspiracy -- it was a totally new experience for all of us,'' one Justice Department prosecutor says. ''It was kind of a bonding experience. He and the agents developed over time a very close bond. They worked well together.''
On Oct. 26, 2004, Gonzalez was taken to Washington and installed in the Operation Firewall command center at Secret Service headquarters. He corralled the Shadowcrew targets into a chat session. At 9 p.m., agents began knocking down doors. By midnight, 28 people across eight states and six countries had been arrested, most of them mere feet from their computers. Nineteen were eventually indicted. It was by some estimates the most successful cybercrime case the government had ever carried out.
''I did find the investigation exciting,'' Gonzalez told me of turning against Shadowcrew. ''The intellectual element. Unmasking them, figuring out their identities. Looking back, it was kind of easy, though. When someone trusts you, they let their guard down.''
He did say, however, that he ''actually had a bad conscience'' about it. ''I had a moral dilemma, unlike most informants.'' On another occasion, when he was discussing the same subject, Gonzalez wrote to me in a letter, ''This distinction is very important . . . my loyalty has always been to the black-hat community.''
Those captured by the government with his help are less interested in this distinction. ''Shadowcrew was not a forum of thugs,'' a member who occasionally laundered money for Gonzalez told me. This casher served two years in prison thanks to Operation Firewall. ''He was a coward who betrayed us all, and I suppose if you believe in karma, he got what he deserved in the end.''
Before being arrested, Gonzalez had actually vouched for this casher to the higher-ups at Shadowcrew. He had gone out of his way to help many members, according to the federal prosecutor in New Jersey, Scott Christie, who worked with him on Operation Firewall. Christie says that based on their exchanges when Gonzalez was being recruited as an informant, Gonzalez seemed to be ''less interested in money than in building up Shadowcrew.'' He ''gave back to the members in the way of education and personal benefit. Unlike other cybercriminals, he wasn't just out for gain.''
Indeed, no one I spoke with compared him to a gangster or a mercenary -- preferred honorifics among hackers -- but several likened him to a brilliant executive. ''In the U.S., we have two kinds of powerful, successful business leaders. We have people like Bill Gates and Steve Jobs, who are the most sophisticated of electronic technicians and programmers,'' says Steve Heymann, the Massachusetts assistant U.S. attorney who, in the spring of 2010, secured a combined 38 years of prison time for Gonzalez and his co-conspirators for their corporate breaches. ''Then we have others, like the C.E.O.'s of AT&T or General Electric, who are extremely good in their area but also know when to go to others for expertise and how to build powerful organizations by using those others. Gonzalez fits into that second category.''
BY THE TIME Gonzalez returned to Miami after Operation Firewall, in late 2004, he was already exploring the vulnerability of corporate wireless networks. Just as data security had been an afterthought for many businesses in their rush to get online in the 1990s, creating opportunities for the likes of Shadowcrew, many firms had taken no precautions as they eagerly adopted WiFi in the early 2000s. Gonzalez was especially intrigued by the possibilities of a technique known as ''war driving'': hackers would sit in cars or vans in the parking lots of big-box stores with laptops and high-power radio antennae and burrow through companies' vulnerable WiFi networks. Adepts could get into a billion-dollar multinational's servers in minutes.
Gonzalez reconnected with an old friend from EFnet, Christopher Scott, who was willing to do grunt work. Scott began cruising the commercial stretches of Route 1 in Miami, looking for war-driving targets. His experiments at BJ's Wholesale Club and DSW met with success. He stole about 400,000 card accounts from the former, a million from the latter. He described the breaches and passed card numbers to Gonzalez.
The following summer, Scott parked outside a pair of Marshalls stores. He enlisted the help of Jonathan James, a minor celebrity among Miami black hats for being the first American juvenile ever incarcerated for computer crimes. (At 15, he hacked into the Department of Defense; he lived under house arrest for six months.) Scott cracked the Marshalls WiFi network, and he and James started navigating the system: they co-opted log-ins and passwords and got Gonzalez into the network; they made their way into the corporate servers at the Framingham, Mass., headquarters of Marshalls' parent company, TJX; they located the servers that housed old card transactions from stores. Scott set up a VPN -- the system Gonzalez and the Secret Service used to ensnare Shadowcrew -- so they could move in and out of TJX and install software without detection. When Gonzalez found that so many of the card numbers they were getting were expired, he had Stephen Watt develop a ''sniffer'' program to seek out, capture and store recent transactions. Once the collection of data reached a certain size, the program was designed to automatically close, then encrypt, compress and forward the card data to Gonzalez's computer, just as you might send someone an e-mail with a zip file attached. Steadily, patiently, they siphoned the material from the TJX servers. ''The experienced ones take their time and slowly bleed the data out,'' a Secret Service analyst says.
By the end of 2006, Gonzalez, Scott and James had information linked to more than 40 million cards. It wasn't a novel caper, but they executed it better than anyone else had. Using similar methods, they hacked into OfficeMax, Barnes & Noble, Target, Sports Authority and Boston Market, and probably many other companies that never detected a breach or notified the authorities. Scott bought a six-foot-tall radio antenna, and he and James rented hotel rooms near stores for the tougher jobs. In many cases, the data were simply there for the taking, unencrypted, unprotected.
''For a long time, probably too long a time, computer security was something that was just dollars and cents off the bottom line -- it doesn't bring in money,'' Heymann told me when I asked why war-driving hackers were able to steal data so easily. ''At the same time, in these cases, companies were beginning to warehouse vast amounts of information'' far more swiftly than they were coming to understand the vulnerabilities of their systems. A result was what he called ''a primeval muck that creates a period when dramatic, costly attacks can get at vast amounts of resources.''
At the same time that Gonzalez was stealing all this bank-card data, he was assembling an international syndicate. His favored fence was a Ukrainian, Maksym Yastremskiy, who would sell sets of card numbers to buyers across the Americas, Europe and Asia and split the proceeds with him. Gonzalez hired another EFnet friend, Jonathan Williams, to cash out at A.T.M.'s across the country, and a friend of Watt's in New York would pick up the shipments of cash in bulk sent by Williams and Yastremskiy. Watt's friend would then wire the money to Miami or send it to a post-office box there set up by James through a proxy. Gonzalez established dummy companies in Europe, and to collect payment and launder money he opened e-gold and WebMoney accounts, which were not strictly regulated (e-gold has since gone out of business). He also rented servers in Latvia, Ukraine, the Netherlands and elsewhere to store the card data and the software he was using for the breaches. Finally, he joined up with two Eastern European hackers who were onto something visionary. Known to him only by their screen names, Annex and Grig, they were colluding to break into American card-payment processors -- the very cash arteries of the retail economy.
''I've been asking myself, why did I do it?'' Gonzalez told me over the phone from prison recently. ''At first I did it for monetary reasons. The service's salary wasn't enough, and I needed the money. By then I'd already created the snowball and had to keep doing it. I wanted to quit but couldn't.'' He claims his intentions were partly admirable. He genuinely wanted to help out Patrick Toey, a close friend and hacker who would later do much of the more sophisticated legwork involved in Gonzalez's hacking into corporate networks. Unlike Gonzalez and Watt, Toey, who is 25, had a rough upbringing. After dropping out of high school, he supported his mother and his younger brother and sister by hacking. Gonzalez invited Toey to live in his condominium in Miami, rent-free. Gonzalez owned it, but he enjoyed living at home with his parents more. He says he loved his mother's cooking and playing with his nephew, and he could more easily launder money through his parents' home-equity line of credit that way.
Gonzalez relished the intellectual challenges of cybercrime too. He is not a gifted programmer -- according to Watt and Toey, in fact, he can barely write simple code -- but by all accounts he can understand systems and fillet them with singular grace. I often got the impression that this was computer crime's main appeal for Gonzalez.
But he also liked stealing. ''Whatever morality I should have been feeling was trumped by the thrill,'' he told me. And he liked spending. Partly but not entirely in jest, he took to referring to his scheme as Operation Get Rich or Die Tryin', after the 50 Cent album and movie. Gonzalez would not discuss with me just how rich he got, but he certainly was seeing profits in the millions of dollars. Little of that found its way to Toey, however, and probably none to Watt. For himself, Gonzalez bought, in addition to the condo, a new BMW 330i. He often stayed in luxury hotel suites in Miami on a whim. He took frequent trips to New York, where he and Watt -- who worked by day in the I.T. department of Morgan Stanley and later developed securities-trading software and moonlighted as a nightclub promoter -- spent thousands on hotels, restaurants, clubs and drugs. Lots of drugs. ''I don't know when he slept,'' Agent Michael says, referring to Gonzalez's lifestyle during the time they worked together.
It seems clear now that Gonzalez didn't mind betraying people. What would come to anger the Secret Service most is that he used information from their investigations to enrich himself. ''He would be working for the service during the day, and then come home and talk to me, and I'd be selling dumps for him,'' Toey told me, referring to databases of stolen card information. Gonzalez sold dumps to hackers who he knew were under investigation, in effect setting them up. In the case of one Miami suspect being investigated by the service, Toey told me: ''We basically ripped [him] off and sold him databases that were all dead and expired. They came from a company where a breach was being investigated by the service. He got caught with the database, and it looked like he'd done it.'' Toey and Gonzalez then split the profits. (Gonzalez confirmed this account of events.)
When I asked Toey how he felt about using information from government investigations to betray other hackers, including black hats, he said: ''I didn't like it at all that he did it. But at the same time, I don't know any of those people.'' He added, ''More money for us.''
Agent Michael investigated the Miami suspect, but he did not know until I told him that Gonzalez had set the man up. ''It doesn't surprise me,'' he said. ''Looking back, we knew what he wanted us to know. . . . He was leading a double life within a double life.''
BY THE SPRING of 2007, Gonzalez was tired of working for the Secret Service. ''He wasn't showing up on time,'' according to Agent Michael, who began talking with other agents about cutting Gonzalez loose. ''He didn't want to be there.'' He was also tired of war driving. He wanted a new challenge. He found one in a promising technique called SQL injection.
SQL (usually pronounced ''sequel'') stands for Structured Query Language, the programming language that enables most commercial Web sites to interact with their associated databases. When you log on to the Web site of a clothing store to buy a sweater, for example, the site sends your commands in SQL back to the databases where the images and descriptions of clothing are stored. The requested information is returned in SQL, and then translated into words, so you can find the sweater you want. But there is a vulnerability here: such databases in a company's servers often exist in proximity to other all-too-accessible databases with more sensitive information -- like your credit-card number.
SQL is the lingua franca of online commerce. A hacker who learns to manipulate it can penetrate a company with frightening dependability. And he doesn't need to be anywhere near a store or a company's headquarters to do so. Since SQL injections go through a Web site, they can be done from anywhere.
Gonzalez urged Watt and Toey to experiment with SQL. Watt wasn't interested. ''I had objections to what he was doing on a moral level -- and on top of that, I took an intellectual exception,'' Watt says. ''If Albert said we were going to go after the Church of Scientology or Blackwater, I would have dove in headfirst.'' Toey, however, said he felt he owed Gonzalez. He began poking around on the sites of businesses that seemed vulnerable -- or for which he had a philosophical distaste. ''I just didn't like what they did,'' he said of the clothing chain Forever 21. The clothes were poorly made, he said, and the employees poorly paid. ''It's just everything I hate about this country in one store.''
Under the assault of Toey's expertise and contempt, Forever 21 didn't stand a chance. ''I went to their Web site, and I looked at their shopping-cart software, and within five minutes, I found a problem,'' he said, with his customary concision. ''Within 10 minutes we were on their computers and were able to execute commands freely. From there we leveraged access until we were the domain administrators. Then I passed it over to Albert.''
What came next was the truly inspired step. Gonzalez focused on TJX in part because it stored old transactions, but he found that many of the cards were expired. He needed a way to get to cards right after customers used them. It was possible, he learned, to breach the point-of-sale terminals at stores, the machines on checkout counters through which you swipe your card at the supermarket, the gas station, the department store -- just about anywhere you buy something.
Gonzalez and Toey took reconnaissance trips to stores around Miami to look at the brands and makes of their terminals. He downloaded schematics and software manuals. Earlier, Jonathan Williams visited an OfficeMax near Los Angeles, loosened a terminal at a checkout counter and walked out of the store with it. Hackers working with an Estonian contact of Gonzalez's hacked into the Maryland-based Micros Systems, the largest maker of point-of-sale systems, and stole software and a list of employee log-ins and passwords, which they sent to Gonzalez.
Now once Toey got him into a system, Gonzalez no longer had to sift through databases for the valuable stuff. Instead, he could go straight to the servers that processed the cards coming from the terminals, in the milliseconds before that information was sent to banks for approval. He tried this on JCPenney, the clothing chain Wet Seal and the Hannaford Brothers grocery chain, in the last instance compromising more than four million cards. His Estonian contact used the technique on Dave & Buster's. ''Every time a card was swiped, it would be logged into our file,'' Toey says. ''There was nothing anyone could do about it.''
When they pieced together how Gonzalez organized these heists later, federal prosecutors had to admire his ingenuity. ''It's like driving to the building next to the bank to tunnel into the bank,'' Seth Kosto, an assistant U.S. attorney in New Jersey who worked on the case, told me. When I asked how Gonzalez rated among criminal hackers, he replied: ''As a leader? Unparalleled. Unparalleled in his ability to coordinate contacts and continents and expertise. Unparalleled in that he didn't just get a hack done -- he got a hack done, he got the exfiltration of the data done, he got the laundering of the funds done. He was a five-tool player.''
Gonzalez and Toey were returning from a trip to Toys ''R'' Us to check out its terminals one afternoon in the spring of 2008 when a sports car with tinted windows pulled up behind them at a red light. Gonzalez became suspicious and turned into a bus lane. The sports car followed. When the light turned green, Gonzalez didn't move. The car didn't move. After waiting for minutes, in a static game of chicken, car horns blaring, Gonzalez suddenly accelerated into oncoming traffic before doing a U-turn and turning into an alley. The pursuing car flew by, Gonzalez pulled out behind him, sped up alongside the car and peered inside. Gonzalez and Toey made out a police light on the dashboard. It was a surveillance car.
Gonzalez had by that point stopped working as an informant, according to the service. Instructions had come down to the Miami field office to start tailing him. Maybe the most valuable cybercrime informant it had ever employed, the key to Operation Firewall, was now being investigated. And the Secret Service wasn't alone: the F.B.I. was looking into a wireless intrusion at Target's headquarters that originated at one of its Miami stores. The store, the bureau discovered, was in the line of sight of Gonzalez's condo, in ideal range for a war-driving antenna.
But Gonzalez wasn't worried. He was certain he'd covered all his tracks.
KIM PERETTI KNOWS Gonzalez as well as almost anyone in the government. She has worked with him. She has also prosecuted him -- though Peretti does not come across as a federal prosecutor. Younger in appearance than her 40 years, she grew up in Wisconsin and is girlish, even bubbly, in person, apt to express frustration with phrases like ''Oh, sugar!'' Peretti was hired to the Justice Department's Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section shortly after 9/11. Peretti made a point of getting to know the agents in the Secret Service's Electronic Crimes Task Force because she knew that they were, like her, eager to make a name in going after cybercriminals. She lobbied to be assigned to Operation Firewall, and in 2003 she was.
When I met Peretti at a restaurant near her new office in McLean, Va. -- she left the government in May to take a job at PriceWaterhouseCoopers -- she was wearing a blue skirt suit and designer glasses. ''She's got the whole Sarah Palin eyewear thing going on,'' Gonzalez had written to me in a letter, by way of explaining that it wasn't at all unpleasant being investigated by her. But their relationship goes back further than that. Much of what Peretti knows about cybercrime she learned from working with Gonzalez.
''Albert was an educator,'' she said, describing their experience on Operation Firewall. ''We in law enforcement had never encountered anything like'' him. ''We had to learn the language, we had to learn the characters, their goals, their techniques. Albert taught us all of that.'' They worked as well together as any investigative team she has been a part of, she said.
When we met, Peretti brought with her a poster-size screen shot of Shadowcrew's homepage as it appeared the day after the raids. Secret Service technicians had defaced it with a photograph of a shirtless, tattooed tough slouching in a jail cell. The text said, ''Contact your local United States Secret Service field office . . . before we contact you!''
By the time she was 35, thanks to Operation Firewall and Gonzalez, Peretti was the Justice Department's chief prosecutor of cybercrime in Washington. But in 2005, even as she was litigating the Shadowcrew case, she encountered a new cybercrime wave unlike anything that had come before. ''The service keeps calling me, saying, 'We've got another company that contacted us,' '' she said. ''The volume was getting bigger and bigger. There was just an explosion.''
In the days before Christmas 2006, the Justice Department and Stephen Heymann, the assistant U.S. attorney in Massachusetts, received a series of frantic calls from TJX's attorneys. The company had been contacted by a credit-card company, because a rapidly growing number of cards used at Marshalls and T. J. Maxx stores seemed to have been stolen. TJX had examined its Framingham, Mass., servers, and what it found was catastrophic. According to its own account, for about a year and a half, cards for ''somewhere between approximately half to substantially all of the transactions at U.S., Puerto Rican and Canadian stores'' were believed stolen. It was the biggest theft of card data in U.S. history, and there wasn't a lead in sight.
''At that point we had quite literally the entire world as possible suspects,'' Heymann told me in May, when we met in his office in the federal court building overlooking Boston Harbor. With his father, Philip, a deputy attorney general in the Clinton administration, Heymann teaches courses on criminal law at Harvard Law School. He had been deputy chief of the Massachusetts U.S. attorney's criminal division and then set up one of the first computer-crime units in the country, so he was well versed in the comparative challenges. ''If you've got a murder scene, there's blood, there's fingerprints. If you have a hacker going into a company, the critical information can be lost the moment the connection is broken. The size of the networks might be so large and so confusing that they're very hard to understand and search. The people involved may only be known by screen names. Figuring that out is very different from figuring out who Tony the Squirrel is,'' he said. Heymann had never seen anything like the TJX breach.
Then, in 2007, attorneys for Dave & Buster's called the Secret Service. That company, too, had been breached, but this was different. The thieves had managed to access its point-of-sale system. By that summer, Peretti and Heymann had huge amounts of data, lots of potential leads and no clue as to whom they were chasing. ''For the first six to nine months, it was tiring, exhaustive, thorough,'' Heymann told me. ''I'd like to tell you it was also brilliant and incisive and led to the key lead, but it wasn't.'' They were in desperate need of a break.
They finally got one, courtesy of Peretti's old friends at the Secret Service. For two years, it turned out, an undercover agent in its San Diego office had been buying card dumps from Maksym Yastremskiy, Gonzalez's fence. The agent traveled to Thailand and Dubai to meet with the Ukrainian, and in Dubai he furtively copied the hard drive in Yastremskiy's laptop. Technicians at the Secret Service combed through it and discovered, to their joy, that Yastremskiy was a meticulous record keeper. He had saved and catalogued all of his customer lists and instant messages for years. In the logs, they found a chat partner who appeared to be Yastremskiy's biggest provider of stolen card data. But all they had for the person was an I.M. registration number -- no personal information.
In July 2007, Yastremskiy was arrested in a nightclub in Turkey, and the Secret Service turned up a useful lead. The anonymous provider had asked Yastremskiy to arrange a fake passport. One of the provider's cashers had been arrested, and he wanted to get his man out of the United States. The only problem: he didn't say where the casher had been arrested.
So agents phoned every police station and district attorney's office around the country that had made a similar arrest or brought a similar case. After weeks of these calls, their search led them to a prison cell in North Carolina, where Jonathan Williams was being held. He had been arrested with $200,000 in cash -- much of which had been intended for Gonzalez -- and 80 blank debit cards; the local authorities hadn't linked him to a larger criminal group, and they couldn't have known about Gonzalez. The Secret Service agents plugged in a thumb drive in Williams's possession at the time of his arrest and found a file that contained a photograph of Gonzalez, a credit report on him and the address of Gonzalez's sister, Maria, in Miami. (He was also arrested with a Glock 9-millimeter pistol and two barrels for the gun, one threaded to fit a silencer.) The file was ''a safety precaution, in case [Gonzalez] tried to inform on me,'' Williams told me from prison in June. Officials then traced packages Williams had sent to the post-office box in Miami. This led the Secret Service to Jonathan James. They pulled James's police records and found that in 2005 he was arrested by a Palmetto Bay, Fla., police officer who found him in the parking lot of a retail store in the middle of the night. The officer didn't know why James and his companion, a man named Christopher Scott, were sitting in a car with laptops and a giant radio antenna, but she suspected they weren't playing World of Warcraft.
The real eureka moment came when Secret Service technicians finally got the I.M. registration information for whoever was providing Yastremskiy with bank-card data. There was no address or name, but there was an e-mail address: soupnazi@efnet.ru It was a dead giveaway to anyone who knew Gonzalez. Peretti remembers vividly the afternoon in December 2007 when agents called her and told her to come to their office. They sat her down and showed her the e-mail address. ''And they looked at me,'' Peretti said. ''They've got 10 agents looking at me. Three minutes passed by, I was sitting there like a dull person. And then I was like, 'Oh, my God!' ''
Gonzalez knew the Secret Service was investigating Yastremskiy, but he continued to move databases through him. When I asked Gonzalez why, he said, ''I never thought he would leave Ukraine.'' The country has no extradition policy with the U.S. But Yastremskiy did leave. ''It wasn't until he got busted,'' Gonzalez told me, that he realized his mistake.
Operation Get Rich or Die Tryin' unraveled fast. Christopher Scott's home and Gonzalez's condo were raided simultaneously. Agents seized Scott, along with nine computers and 78 marijuana plants; in Gonzalez's place they found various designer drugs and a half-asleep Patrick Toey. Toey was flown to Boston to testify before a grand jury. He directed Heymann and Peretti to the e-gold and WebMoney accounts and to servers located abroad. The servers eventually led them to Watt, who returned to his Greenwich Village apartment to find agents and a battering ram awaiting him. The Gonzalezes' home was raided, but Albert was not there.
Peretti knew that if they didn't find him soon, he would disappear. ''Albert had said during Firewall how afraid he was of spending any time in prison,'' she said. ''I knew he'd be gone the next day.''
They found him at 7 in the morning on May 7, 2008, when agents rushed into his suite at the National Hotel in Miami Beach. With him were a Croatian woman, two laptops and $22,000. Over time, he started talking. Months later, he led Secret Service agents to a barrel containing $1.2 million buried in his parents' backyard. Attorney General Michael Mukasey himself held a news conference in August 2008 to announce the indictment. ''So far as we know, this is the single largest and most complex identity-theft case ever charged in this country,'' he told reporters. Gonzalez's attorney assured him the government's case was weak. Electronic evidence often didn't hold up, he said.
That was before attorneys for Heartland Payment Systems Inc., in Princeton, N.J., called Peretti in early January 2009. One of the largest card-payment processors in the country, Heartland, which services about a quarter of a million businesses, had been hacked. But not just hacked -- owned in a way no company had ever been owned. As Peretti would soon learn from Gonzalez, he had helped the two Eastern European hackers, Annex and Grig, slip into Heartland via SQL injection. By the time Heartland realized something was wrong, the heist was too immense to be believed: data from 130 million transactions had been exposed. Indictments were brought against Gonzalez in New Jersey, New York and Massachusetts (where the cases were eventually consolidated). At a loss for anything else to say, Gonzalez's attorney told a reporter: ''He's really not a bad guy. He just got way in over his head.''
On May 18, 2008, Jonathan James shot himself in the head. He left a suicide note saying he was convinced the government would try to pin Gonzalez's crimes on him because of the notoriety James had gained as a teenage hacker.
AT HIS SENTENCING in March, Gonzalez, who pleaded guilty to all charges, sat almost motionless. As far as I saw, he didn't once look back at the gallery in the federal courtroom in Boston, where his mother sat stoically while his father wept into a handkerchief as Gonzalez's sister consoled him. Nor did he glance at Heymann, as he told the court that Gonzalez had committed the worst computer crimes ever prosecuted; nor at Peretti, nor his old colleagues from the Secret Service, who also sat in the gallery. Gonzalez just leaned forward and peered straight ahead at the judge, as though -- the set of his head was unmistakable -- staring intensely at a computer.
He spoke just once, a few sentences at the end. ''I blame nobody but myself,'' he said. ''I'm guilty of not only exploiting computer networks but exploiting personal relationships, particularly one that I had with a certain government agency who believed in me. This agency not only believed in me but gave me a second start in life, and I completely threw that away.'' Accounting for time served and good behavior, Gonzalez is expected to get out of prison in 2025.
In May, Toey began a five-year sentence, and Scott started a seven-year sentence. Yastremskiy was given 30 years in a Turkish prison, a fate apparently so grim he's lobbying to be extradited to the U.S. so he can be imprisoned here. Watt, who maintains that he was never fully aware of what Gonzalez wanted to use his software for, and who refused to give information on Gonzalez to the grand jury or prosecutors, was sentenced to two years.
According to Attorney General Eric Holder, who last month presented an award to Peretti and the prosecutors and Secret Service agents who brought Gonzalez down, Gonzalez cost TJX, Heartland and the other victimized companies more than $400 million in reimbursements and forensic and legal fees. At last count, at least 500 banks were affected by the Heartland breach. But the extent of the damage is unknown. ''The majority of the stuff I hacked was never brought into public light,'' Toey told me. One of the imprisoned hackers told me there ''were major chains and big hacks that would dwarf TJX. I'm just waiting for them to indict us for the rest of them.'' Online fraud is still rampant in the United States, but statistics show a major drop in 2009 from previous years, when Gonzalez was active.
The company line at the Justice Department and the Secret Service is that informants go bad all the time, and that there was nothing special about Gonzalez's case. As Peretti put it, ''You certainly feel anger'' -- but ''you're not doing your job if you fall into the trap of thinking the criminal you're working with is your best friend.'' The agent in charge of the Criminal Investigative Division at the Secret Service told me: ''It's unfortunate. We try to take measures. But it does happen. You need to deal with criminals to get other criminals. Albert was a criminal.''
Heymann lauds how the Secret Service handled things. ''When you find out one of your informants has committed a crime,'' he said, ''you can hide the fact, which unfortunately does happen from time to time. You can play it down -- soft-pedal it, try to make it go away. Or you can do what I think the Secret Service very impressively did here, which is to go full bore.'' He said that after Gonzalez became a suspect, ''the size of the investigation, the amount of assets, all increased significantly. That reflects enormous integrity.''
But Gonzalez did have friends in the government, and there is no question some of them feel deeply betrayed. Agent Michael was the most candid with me about this: ''I put a lot of time and effort into trying to keep him on the straight and narrow and show him what his worth could be outside of that world, keep him part of the team. And he knows that, and he knew what good he could have done with his talent.'' He continued, ''We work with a million informants, but for me it was really tough with him.''
After his sentencing, Gonzalez was transferred from Wyatt to the Metropolitan Detention Center in Brooklyn (before ultimately ending up in a prison in Michigan). Situated between a loud stretch of the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway and Gowanus Bay, M.D.C. is brutal, even for a prison. Populated by hardened offenders, it is among the last places a nonviolent government informant would want to be. ''The place is terrible,'' Agent Michael said. ''But you know what? When you burn both ends of the candle, that's what you get.'' Even Gonzalez was impressed by the government's indifference to his comfort. He says he always knew it would stick it to him somehow, ''but I never thought it would be this badly.''
''I've been asking myself a lot why didn't I ever feel this way while I was doing it,'' Gonzalez told me, when I spoke with him in June. An inmate at M.D.C. who didn't like informants had recently threatened to kill him, he said. It was his 29th birthday, and the 5th birthday of his nephew. Gonzalez's sister wanted to bring her son to New York to visit, but Gonzalez told her not to. ''I didn't want him to get scared, seeing me in here,'' he told me. Instead, Gonzalez was spending the day reading a biography of Warren Buffett.
I asked him how he felt when he thought about people like Agent Michael and Peretti. ''They're part of the betrayals,'' he said.
During the legal proceedings, the court ordered Gonzalez to undergo a psychological evaluation. ''He identified with his computer,'' the report reads. ''It is hard, if not impossible, even at the present for Mr. Gonzalez to conceptualize human growth, development and evolution, other than in the language of building a machine.''
As we spoke, Gonzalez recalled how he first became obsessed with computers as a child. ''I remember so many times having arguments with my mother when she'd try to take the computer power cord from me, or she'd find me up at 6 a.m. on the computer when I had to be at school at 7:30. Or when I'd be out with [my girlfriend] and not paying any attention to her because I'd be thinking about what I could do online.''
He reflected on his days with Shadowcrew, and on his decision to help the government. ''I should have just done my time in 2003,'' he said. ''I should have manned up and did it. I would be getting out about now.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWING) (MM45)
Mid-1990s: Gonzalez, 14, is visited by F.B.I. agents at his high school for hacking into NASA. (MM47)
2003: Arrested in New York for using stolen bank-card numbers. (MM48)
2006: Becomes paid informant for the Secret Service. (MM49)
2004-2007: ''War driving'' -- searching for vulnerable retail-store networks.
Spring 2008: Being tailed in Miami by the Secret Service. (MM50)
May 2008: Gonzalez is arrested in a Miami hotel. He later directed agents to a barrel in his parents' yard that held $1.2 million.
 2010: Gonzalez is serving a sentence of 20 years. (MM51) (DRAWINGS BY FRANCESCO BONGIORNI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); VEHICLE THEFT (90%); COMPUTER CRIME (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); DEBIT CARDS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (87%); INTERNET & WWW (86%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); ARRESTS (73%); CYBERCRIME (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (69%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); ARIZONA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (68%); ASIA (64%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010



523 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: After Party's Rout, a Blue Dog Won't Back Down

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

 BODY:
ASHEVILLE, N.C. -- After a junior year in which he almost won the Heisman Trophy, Heath Shuler was picked in the first round of the 1994 National Football League draft by the Washington Redskins. In fewer than two seasons -- and after a few too many interceptions -- he was replaced as the team's starting quarterback. ESPN described him as one of the all-time draft busts.
He might be expected to play down such a distinction. But Mr. Shuler, 38, who just won a third term as the congressman representing North Carolina's 11th District, has turned it into metaphor.
''It's no different than me as a quarterback,'' he said in an interview here on Thursday. ''I didn't play very good. So what they'd do? They benched me.'' 
The Redskins in this instance are the Democrats in Congress. The dismal season is the trouncing they received at the polls two weeks ago. And the quarterback is Nancy Pelosi, the soon-to-be former speaker of the House.
Since surviving that election, Mr. Shuler has emerged as one of most prominent voices in the debate on the Democratic Party's immediate future. He was among the first to call for Ms. Pelosi to step down from her leadership role in the new Congress and said he would run for minority leader himself if no alternative emerged (though he admitted that he would be an underdog).
The Democrats' achievements in the last Congress, Mr. Shuler said, are unpopular with the public because the party's leadership has been too reflexively partisan. He says a more moderate approach is needed.
''It's my guys that worked probably harder than any group in Washington, did all the right things, voted the right way and still got beat for the simple fact that you've got the far edges running the Congress,'' he said.
His guys are the members of the Blue Dog Coalition, a group of conservative Democrats who came together after the Republican sweep of 1994, and, boy, did they ever have a bad Election Day this year. Twenty-four of the bloc's 58 members were defeated, including two of its four leaders (Mr. Shuler is the coalition's whip). Four other Blue Dogs are retiring this year.
In 2008, 50 Democratic House members were elected in districts that President Obama failed to carry. This month, voters in only 12 of those districts returned Democrats to Congress. Two of those districts are in North Carolina, including Mr. Shuler's.
''North Carolina is just kind of a different place,'' said Jim Hunt, a Democrat who is the longest-serving governor -- two tenures that totaled 16 years -- in the state's history. ''It's going to always be about the middle of the road.''
The state has long nurtured a strand of progressivism, particularly on issues like education, and a Sunday school brand of social conservatism -- sometimes in the same candidate. Its politically assorted lineup of senators has included Terry Sanford, John Edwards and Jesse Helms.
North Carolina's curious politics are on full display in Mr. Shuler's district, which is wedged into the state's mountainous western corner. It includes the heavily Democratic city of Asheville, home to yoga studios and holistic medicine centers, as well as staunchly conservative hamlets scattered throughout the Blue Ridge Mountains.
This month, the district's voters defeated two incumbent Democratic state senators, but chose, by a margin of nearly nine points, to keep Mr. Shuler. Other Congressional districts around North Carolina followed a similar pattern.
At the state level, however, it was a historic day for Republicans. Fueled by an anti-Democratic mood, a high unemployment rate, scandals involving Democrats in Raleigh and an increase in spending by interest groups -- much of it from one North Carolina businessman -- Republicans gained control of the legislature for the first time since a brief period in the 1890s.
Republicans said their candidates, with the help of conservative groups, were finally able to compete financially with Democrats, who have long held the advantage.
''The biggest factor this year was money,'' said Chris McClure, a former executive director of the state Republican Party. ''Republicans and conservative groups really organized well and were able to put more races in play.''
It also means that Republicans will hold the pencil when districts are redrawn next year.
Gerrymandering, Republicans say, was the reason behind the defensive stand by North Carolina's House Democrats, who were able to bear the national Republican tidal wave and keep seven of their eight seats and the majority among the state's delegation. (In the other chamber, Senator Richard M. Burr, a Republican, easily won re-election.)
When the new district lines are drawn, said Larry Ford, chairman of the Republican Party in Rutherford County, ''Heath Shuler is toast.''
The evidence does not suggest that gerrymandering plays such a decisive role in election results, said Andrew J. Taylor, a political science professor at North Carolina State University. He pointed to the results in 2008, when votes for Senator John McCain and Mr. Obama were spread fairly evenly among the state's districts (Mr. Obama carried North Carolina by fewer than 15,000 votes).
Some of Mr. Shuler's supporters say he and some of the other Democrats won by demonstrating their independence from the national party; Mr. Shuler voted for the cap-and-tradeclimate change bill and the new financial regulations but against the health care overhaul and the stimulus package.
But that explanation, too, falls short. After all, the same ''I'm not Nancy Pelosi'' argument was made by two dozen other Blue Dogs who will soon be packing up their offices.
Echoing the debate among Democrats nationwide, some of the more liberal voters in North Carolina's 11th District have been turned off by Mr. Shuler's voting record, going so far as to support a primary challenger this year. Some local party officials said his vote against the health care overhaul dampened turnout, hurting other Democrats on the ballot.
''There were a lot of progressive Democrats who were so disgusted with Shuler that they said they were not voting,'' said Gina Williams, the treasurer for the Democratic Party in Transylvania County.
While he defends his votes, Mr. Shuler, a formidable fund-raiser and campaigner, says a voting record is not as big a factor in elections as a strong presence in the district.
Donald Fowler, a former chairman of the Democratic National Committee, agreed. The Democratic leadership did a terrible job selling its policies, he said, but ideology was not the deciding factor in the election results, including those in Mr. Shuler's district.
''It's a combination of personality of the individuals involved as well as the population base,'' Mr. Fowler said. ''I would say in the total picture, being a football star is better than not being one.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Heath Shuler at a Veterans Day service in North Carolina. He says House Democrats need to be less partisan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA D'ANGELO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (92%); SPORTS (92%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CONSERVATISM (71%); HISTORY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WASHINGTON REDSKINS (90%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (84%)

PERSON: HEATH SHULER (90%); NANCY PELOSI (54%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (74%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010



524 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1425 words

HEADLINE: Gee, I Think You Look Familiar

BYLINE: By BEN WIDDICOMBE

 BODY:
''I HAVE never made a deal in the rain,'' said Fredrik Eklund, standing in bright sunlight in a $2.8 million apartment on the Bowery that offered 360-degree views of seemingly every landmark in New York City. ''People need to see a place in good weather to appreciate it.''
Mr. Eklund knows about good lighting. On paper, he could be just another charismatic, hyper-aggressive broker in the city's cutthroat real estate market. As a managing director of Core Group Marketing, a boutique real estate firm in Chelsea, he has a portfolio worth more than $58 million, putting him at No. 37 in The Real Deal's listing of top brokers in New York City.
His success in the United States has made Mr. Eklund, a member of a prominent Swedish family, with ties to prime ministers, the royal family, even the legendary director Ingmar Bergman, somewhat of a minor celebrity back in his native Stockholm, and the subject of glowing profiles in the Swedish press. But it's more than just his ability to close million-dollar deals that has brought him that fame. 
There's also that other career of his: that of a one-time actor who starred in a half-dozen adult films under the nom de porn Tag Eriksson.
Despite the whiff of scandal or maybe because of it, Mr. Eklund moved to the United States eight years ago -- with zero clients and no real estate training -- and built an enviable practice that now includes marquee clients like Cameron Diaz, Justin Timberlake and the Olsen twins.
''The unglamorous answer is that you work harder than anyone else,'' Mr. Eklund said as he moved lithely around the apartment, fussing with details as a photographer took shots for its listing.
Soon there may be more than just a lone photographer following Mr. Eklund around Manhattan as he readies apartments for viewing. On Thursday afternoon, word leaked out that he is in talks with Bravo to star in a reality show about New York real estate brokers. The news, however, may not go over well with his bosses. Because Core has an existing show on HGTV, it might put his future with the firm in doubt. But Mr. Eklund says he isn't concerned. ''Life is a big tasty smorgasbord,'' he said. ''And there are a lot of really good-looking sandwiches to try.''
Real estate agents are renowned for having the best apartments, and Mr. Eklund's bachelor pad on Astor Place is no exception. A roomy one-bedroom with arched windows that face downtown, it has a decor that looks as if it came from one of the better catalogs.
A dozen family photographs in silver frames are hung together over the credenza. The Eklunds are so attractive that they seem to conform to a cultural stereotype of Swedishness.
One picture shows Mr. Eklund and his brother, Sigge, both in tuxedos, flanking their father, Klas, on his 50th birthday. The elder Mr. Eklund, in a white tux, is a senior economist of one of Sweden's largest corporate banks, SEB, and was closely allied with Carl Bildt and Olof Palme, two of the country's former prime ministers. He is a celebrated public intellectual in Sweden, though he was somewhat remote as a father.
In the center of the grouping is the largest picture, a black-and-white portrait of Mr. Eklund himself, shirtless and beaming, cropped above the waist with hemispheric pecs. He lives across the street from a David Barton gym, where he works out almost every morning, usually by 5 a.m. when it opens.
It was that body that caught the eye of an online casting agent in 2001. Wash West, a tongue-in-cheek porn director who had worked with Bruce LaBruce and others, was intrigued by Mr. Eklund's story. ''His grandfather was a famous actor in Sweden, so he came with this pedigree of Swedish theater and film,'' Mr. West said, referring to Bengt Eklund, who worked with Bergman.
As Tag Eriksson, Mr. Eklund appeared in approximately six films shot in California in 2001 and 2002, including ''The Hole,'' a parody of the popular horror film ''The Ring.'' (In ''The Ring'' watching a cursed videotape causes the characters to die; in ''The Hole'' it makes them gay.) The film won him a 2004 GayVN award, sometimes called the gay porn Oscars, for a Best Solo Scene.
For Mr. Eklund, the racy films offered an escape from the strictures of Old World Sweden. How others might judge him was not a concern. ''Did I ever think it would affect my career negatively?'' he said. ''No. Did I think that I might fall in love with somebody one day who might have a problem with it? Yes.''
Even before his foray into pornographic films, Mr. Eklund was a risk taker. During his first year at the Stockholm School of Economics, he started a tech company called Humany that made customer-relations software. Later he started a small music label and management company, Cave Entertainment, that had modest success in Latin America and Japan. (Its biggest hit, ''KinKi Kids Forever,'' was used in a Japanese chocolate commercial.)
He was already known as a young entrepreneur and his profile in Sweden exploded in 2005, when he published an autobiographical novel about his adult film career titled ''Bananflugornas herre'' or ''Lord of the Fruit Flies,'' a pun on his homosexuality.
''It started as a diary,'' he said. ''It was never about the movies themselves, it was about the journey a young Swedish man goes through.''
Still, the book created a stir that propelled him into the Swedish tabloids, as the gay porn star son of a public figure. ''The newspapers there follow his every move, so he's very well known,'' said his brother, Sigge, who recently moved to Los Angeles to work as a screenwriter. ''The things I hear Swedes admire most about him are his optimism and self-confidence. He's the anti-Bergman -- Bergman was a very dark and angst-ridden man, whereas Fredrik is social and cheery -- and that sells well in today's Sweden.''
Notably, the book was also how Mr. Eklund came out to his father as both gay and a porn actor. He e-mailed his father a draft. ''So this was his way of telling me -- a rather drastic way,'' said the elder Eklund, who was shaken by the revelation. ''I became worried, not because of the movies themselves, but I feared drugs and AIDS, probably like any caring parent would do.''
Father and son have since grown closer. ''Now he's out of all that, without any scars, and I'm truly happy about that,'' the father added.
With considerable life experience already behind him, Mr. Eklund arrived in New York to start a new chapter. He acquired his real estate license at New York University ''because people said I would be good at it and because I have an analytic mind and social skills,'' he said.
In 2005, a year into his first job at JC DeNiro, an agency owned by Robert DeNiro's uncle, Jack, Mr. Eklund did an estimated $50 million in business and was nominated for Rookie of the Year by the Real Estate Board of New York.
He worked 85-hour weeks, and was an early adopter of Web tools. ''I think I was the first one with a BlackBerry, when it still had the wheel,'' he said. ''When I started, seven and a half years ago, listings were still coming in by fax.''
Within two years, he left JC DeNiro to join Core, an ambitious start-up founded by Shaun Osher, who had been a top broker at Prudential Douglas Elliman. Mr. Osher said Mr. Eklund had a particular talent for branding developments that other brokers failed to sell. As a recent example, Mr. Osher cited the Cammeyer, an elegant prewar building in the Flatiron district that was previously marketed as 650 Sixth Avenue, until Mr. Eklund found a fancier, historic-sounding moniker.
Mr. Eklund also keeps his numbers high by working with developers to represent every unit in a building, and has a strong reputation as a closer.
Then there are his clients. Perhaps because of his upbringing in Sweden's ruling class, he moves easily among other public figures. He runs with a glamorous set of Swedes, like Princess Madeleine, who moved to the city in April, and Caroline Winberg, a Victoria's Secret model.
Although Mr. Eklund remains discreet about his clients, several real estate blogs reported in May that he sold Daniel Craig, the James Bond actor, a $1.9 million TriBeCa apartment. Others he has worked with include John Legend, Jessica Alba, Paul Rudd, Rachel McAdams, Ben Stiller and Brooke Shields, according to another broker who spoke anonymously so as not to jeopardize relationships with current or potential clients.
''I try to always make them not think of me as a broker,'' Mr. Eklund said of his ease with celebrities.
And now, with his potential Bravo deal in the works, he may well become one of them.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LIMELIGHT: Fredrik Eklund, the real estate mogul. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BENJAMIN NORMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST1)
ON VIEW: Fredrik Eklund, the Swedish real estate mogul in talks with Bravo for a reality show, has been in the spotlight before: above, in Cafe magazine
 below, other magazine covers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PATRICIA WALL/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (86%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CELEBRITIES (75%); FAMILY (73%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); REALITY TELEVISION (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (53%)

COMPANY: HOME & GARDEN TELEVISION (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: ASHLEY OLSEN (57%); MARY-KATE OLSEN (57%); JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE (50%); CAMERON DIAZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (56%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); SWEDEN (56%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010



525 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: Now, Will China Get It?

 BODY:
American economic leadership seems to be on its heels. At the meeting of 20 leading economies in Seoul last week, China resisted Washington's demands to stop manipulating its currency and rallied Germany and Brazil to criticize the Federal Reserve's plan to inject billions into the economy. G-20 leaders also shrugged off an American proposal to set targets to reduce trade surpluses and deficits, calling instead for vague guidelines. 
Summit meetings rarely produce breakthroughs. And despite these seeming defeats, the Obama administration may be close to achieving one of its core objectives. Internal economic pressure may finally force Beijing to let the value of its currency rise. That would be good for the United States economy, the global economy and China's economy. The cheap renminbi that helped build China into the world's export powerhouse is now overheating its economy. Despite the bluster in Seoul, some Chinese officials are suggesting the country could better manage these pressures if it let the currency rise.
A cheap renminbi doesn't just increase the price of imported goods for Chinese consumers. To hold down the value of its currency, the central bank must print renminbi to buy all the dollars flowing in. This is fueling inflation and bubbles in housing and stocks.
Trying to cool things down, the central bank raised interest rates last month for the first time since 2007. Last week, it told banks to hold more money in reserve and lend less. A rising renminbi would lower the price of imports and give the central bank more control over its money supply.
China has successfully followed this policy before. From 2005 to 2008, the renminbi rose a fifth against the dollar. This helped contain inflation as commodity prices rose around the world. It increased domestic consumption. The growth of China's trade surplus slowed. And China continued to grow by double digits until the financial crisis slammed the brake on the world economy, leading Beijing to abruptly reverse policy.
Reviving such a policy today would also do the world economy enormous good, taking pressure off countries whose manufacturers are struggling to compete with artificially cheap Chinese exports. It would create space for them to combat their own inflationary pressures by letting their own currencies rise.
Whether China's political leaders -- always nervous about anything they can't fully control -- get it is not clear. But no amount of bluster, or fearfulness, can paper over the damage caused by the cheap renminbi policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); INFLATION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MONEY SUPPLY (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); EXPORT PRICES (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); IMPORT PRICES (72%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); GERMANY (92%); BRAZIL (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010



526 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1556 words

HEADLINE: IN GOLD WE TRUST: How to Make the Dollar Sound Again

BYLINE: By JAMES GRANT. 
James Grant, the editor of Grant's Interest Rate Observer, is the author of ''Money of the Mind.''

 BODY:
BY disclosing a plan to conjure $600 billion to support the sagging economy, the Federal Reserve affirmed the interesting fact that dollars can be conjured. In the digital age, you don't even need a printing press.
This was on Nov. 3. A general uproar ensued, with the dollar exchange rate weakening and the price of gold surging. And when, last Monday, the president of the World Bank suggested, almost diffidently, that there might be a place for gold in today's international monetary arrangements, you could hear a pin drop.
Let the economists gasp: The classical gold standard, the one that was in place from 1880 to 1914, is what the world needs now. In its utility, economy and elegance, there has never been a monetary system like it.
It was simplicity itself. National currencies were backed by gold. If you didn't like the currency you could exchange it for shiny coins (money was ''sound'' if it rang when dropped on a counter). Borders were open and money was footloose. It went where it was treated well. In gold-standard countries, government budgets were mainly balanced. Central banks had the single public function of exchanging gold for paper or paper for gold. The public decided which it wanted. 
''You can't go back,'' today's central bankers are wont to protest, before adding, ''And you shouldn't, anyway.'' They seem to forget that we are forever going back (and forth, too), because nothing about money is really new. ''Quantitative easing,'' a k a money-printing, is as old as the hills. Draftsmen of the United States Constitution, well recalling the overproduction of the Continental paper dollar, defined money as ''coin.'' ''To coin money'' and ''regulate the value thereof'' was a Congressional power they joined in the same constitutional phrase with that of fixing ''the standard of weights and measures.'' For most of the next 200 years, the dollar was, in fact, defined as a weight of metal. The pure paper era did not begin until 1971.
The Federal Reserve was created in 1913 -- by coincidence, the final full year of the original gold standard. (Less functional variants followed in the 1920s and '40s; no longer could just anybody demand gold for paper, or paper for gold.) At the outset, the Fed was a gold standard central bank. It could not have conjured money even if it had wanted to, as the value of the dollar was fixed under law as one 20.67th of an ounce of gold.
Neither was the Fed concerned with managing the national economy. Fast forward 65 years or so, to the late 1970s, and the Fed would have been unrecognizable to the men who voted it into existence. It was now held responsible for ensuring full employment and stable prices alike.
Today, the Fed's hundreds of Ph.D.'s conduct research at the frontiers of economic science. ''The Two-Period Rational Inattention Model: Accelerations and Analyses'' is the title of one of the treatises the monetary scholars have recently produced. ''Continuous Time Extraction of a Nonstationary Signal with Illustrations in Continuous Low-pass and Band-pass Filtering'' is another. You can't blame the learned authors for preferring the life they lead to the careers they would have under a true-blue gold standard. Rather than writing monographs for each other, they would be standing behind a counter exchanging paper for gold and vice versa.
If only they gave it some thought, though, the economists -- nothing if not smart -- would fairly jump at the chance for counter duty. For a convertible currency is a sophisticated, self-contained information system. By choosing to hold it, or instead the gold that stands behind it, the people tell the central bank if it has issued too much money or too little. It's democracy in money, rather than mandarin rule.
Today, it's the mandarins at the Federal Reserve who decide what interest rate to impose, and what volume of currency to conjure.
The Bank of England once had an unhappy experience with this method of operation. To fight the Napoleonic wars of the early 19th century, Britain traded in its gold pound for a scrip, and the bank had to decide unilaterally how many pounds to print. Lacking the information encased in the gold standard, it printed too many. A great inflation bubbled.
Later, a parliamentary inquest determined that no institution should again be entrusted with such powers as the suspension of gold convertibility had dumped in the lap of those bank directors. They had meant well enough, the parliamentarians concluded, but even the most minute knowledge of the British economy, ''combined with the profound science in all the principles of money and circulation,'' would not enable anyone to circulate the exact amount of money needed for ''the wants of trade.''
The same is true now at the Fed. The chairman, Ben Bernanke, and his minions have taken it upon themselves to decide that a lot more money should circulate. According to the Consumer Price Index, which is showing year-over-year gains of less than 1.5 percent, prices are essentially stable.
In the inflationary 1970s, people had prayed for exactly this. But the Fed today finds it unacceptable. We need more inflation, it insists (seeming not to remember that prices showed year-over-year declines for 12 consecutive months in 1954 and '55 or that, in the first half of the 1960s, the Consumer Price Index never registered year-over-year gains of as much as 2 percent). This is why Mr. Bernanke has set out to materialize an additional $600 billion in the next eight months.
The intended consequences of this intervention include lower interest rates, higher stock prices, a perkier Consumer Price Index and more hiring. The unintended consequences remain to be seen. A partial list of unwanted possibilities includes an overvalued stock market (followed by a crash), a collapsing dollar, an unscripted surge in consumer prices (followed by higher interest rates), a populist revolt against zero-percent savings rates and wall-to-wall European tourists on the sidewalks of Manhattan.
As for interest rates, they are already low enough to coax another cycle of imprudent lending and borrowing. It gives one pause that the Fed, with all its massed brain power, failed to anticipate even a little of the troubles of 2007-09.
At last week's world economic summit meeting in South Korea, finance ministers and central bankers chewed over the perennial problem of ''imbalances.'' America consumes much more than it produces (and has done so over 25 consecutive years). Asia produces more than it consumes. Merchandise moves east across the Pacific; dollars fly west in payment. For Americans, the system could hardly be improved on, because the dollars do not remain in Asia. They rather obligingly fly eastward again in the shape of investments in United States government securities. It's as if the money never left the 50 states.
So it is under the paper-dollar system that we Americans enjoy ''deficits without tears,'' in the words of the French economist Jacques Rueff. We could not have done so under the classical gold standard. Deficits then were ultimately settled in gold. We could not have printed it, but would have had to dig for it, or adjusted our economy to make ourselves more internationally competitive. Adjustments under the gold standard took place continuously and smoothly -- not, like today, wrenchingly and at great intervals.
Gold is a metal made for monetary service. It is scarce (just 0.004 parts per million in the earth's crust), pliable and easy on the eye. It has tended to hold its purchasing power over the years and centuries. You don't consume it, as you do tin or copper. Somewhere, probably, in some coin or ingot, is the gold that adorned Cleopatra.
And because it is indestructible, no one year's new production is of any great consequence in comparison with the store of above-ground metal. From 1900 to 2009, at much lower nominal gold prices than those prevailing today, the worldwide stock of gold grew at 1.5 percent a year, according to the United States Geological Survey and the World Gold Council.
The first time the United States abandoned the gold standard -- to fight the Civil War -- it took until 1879, 14 years after Appomattox, to again link the dollar to gold.
To reinstitute a modern gold standard today would take time, too. The United States would first have to call an international monetary conference. A chastened Ben Bernanke would have to announce that, in fact, he cannot see into the future and needs the information that the convertibility feature of a gold dollar would impart.
That humbling chore completed, the delegates could get down to the technical work of proposing a rate of exchange between gold and the dollar (probably it would be even higher than the current price of gold, the better to encourage new exploration and production).
Other countries, thunderstruck, would then have to follow suit. The main thing, Mr. Bernanke would emphasize, would be to create a monetary system that synchronizes national economies rather than driving them apart.
If the classical gold standard in its every Edwardian feature could not, after all, be teleported into the 21st century, there would be plenty of scope for adaptation and, perhaps, improvement. Let the author of ''The Two-Period Rational Inattention Model: Accelerations and Analyses'' have a crack at it.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JI LEE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010



527 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1608 words

HEADLINE: Iranians Hail Detroit Power by Revving Their Vintage V-8's

BYLINE: By JIM KOSCS

 BODY:
THE scene has been played out so many times as to border on cliche. It begins with an impromptu meet-up of two Chevy Camaros, each announcing its prowess with a V-8 rumble. Then, despite good-natured banter between the drivers, an unspoken challenge is made. Finally, a tire-smoking showdown ensues.
One big difference this time: the encounter, which took place at summer's end, did not begin on the main drag of a small Midwestern town and pursue resolution on a deserted country road. Instead, the Camaros, a pair of pumped-up early '70s models owned by friends, faced off at the Azadi Stadium Race Track in Tehran.
The setting was a gathering of the Tehran Cafe Racers, but aside from few minor details -- Persian lettering on the license plates and on the cans of Coke sipped over lunch -- it could have taken place at many racetracks in America. The loose-knit group, an affiliate of a Florida-based club, is part of Iran's enthusiastic classic car culture. Vintage Detroit models play a big role in the activities, and driving events take precedence -- the track session was the group's first since its founding this year. 
''I was expecting a better turnout for the American car contingent,'' Ramin Salehkhou, a 44-year-old American-educated lawyer who started the Tehran branch of the club, wrote in an e-mail. ''But three of the guys, owners of a 1968 Dodge Charger, a 1970 Ford Mustang Mach 1 and a 1978 Pontiac Firebird Trans Am, had to bail out.''
A rare high-performance Camaro belonging to Mr. Salehkhou is at the core of the Tehran group's formation, and Detroit was well represented among the 30 cars at the track. American cars usually account for 30 to 40 percent of participants at club gatherings, he said.
In addition to Mr. Salehkhou's Camaro and its drag-race rival, other attendees included a restored 1965 Mustang convertible, a '67 Mustang GT, a '72 Mustang Mach 1 (also owned and restored by Mr. Salehkhou), a '71 Dodge Charger and a '73 Corvette. Also on hand were a Chevy Blazer and a mid-1970s Buick Park Avenue.
Most cars took to the track for hot laps and drag racing. The Buick's owner entertained the group by doing power slides around the road course, a feat made easier by the 454-cubic-inch Chevy V-8 that replaced the original Buick engine.
Among the 1960s and 1970s vehicles joining the day's fun were a number of Mercedes-Benz sedans, coupes and SL roadsters; a 1975 Maserati Khamsin that was once part of the shah's Imperial Garage; MGB and Triumph TR6 roadsters; and even some Volkswagens -- a quasi-military Thing and a pair of vintage Beetles.
The Maserati's owner, Fathali Esfandiari, not only took hot laps, but showed off with a series of tire-smoking donuts. Mr. Esfandiari, who has restored a Mercedes 300SL Gullwing, is vice president of a volunteer group, the Classic Car Committee of the Motorcycle and Automobile Federation of Iran; Mr. Salehkhou is the group's president.
After a morning on the racetrack, the group headed to lunch at an outdoor restaurant in the foothills of the Alborz Mountains overlooking the capital. ''In Tehran at least, due to heavy traffic congestion, our trips usually serve as an excuse to take off the covers and exercise our cars,'' Mr. Salehkhou said.
Classic-car events attract considerable attention in Iran, which is somewhat surprising even to Mr. Salehkhou, because such a large portion of the country's population was born after the 1979 Islamic Revolution.
''Whenever we do a road trip, people clap and honk their horns throughout the route,'' he said. ''Most of the interest comes from the young. And most of it is directed toward Mercedes and American cars.''
Last month, a classic-car rally in the ancient city of Isfahan attracted a variety of American vehicles, including Chevy sedans from the '50s and '60s as well as Camaros and Pontiac Firebirds.
''Most of the cars had husband-and-wife teams, including one woman who drove a yellow Chevy Blazer while her husband navigated,'' Mr. Salehkhou said. A mullah blessed each car at the start of the rally, which was won by a 1972 Pontiac Grand Prix.
There is a logical explanation for the popularity of American cars in Iran: in the 1970s, when tens of thousands of Iranian students were attending American colleges, an Iranian tax exemption let each student ship home a personal car. Not surprisingly, low gasoline prices helped students to rationalize their desire for fast, powerful models.
Mr. Salehkhou's 1972 Mustang entered the country that way, and although he is not the original owner, Mustangs have had a strong influence on him. It was a ride in a neighbor's 1969 Shelby GT-500 that hooked him on muscle cars -- when he was 4 years old and living in the United States while his father attended graduate school.
As a student at George Washington University, and later Case Western Reserve, Mr. Salehkhou drove a used 1983 VW Rabbit GTI. He would eventually put 200,000 miles on the GTI, driving it all over the East Coast and Midwest.
Firebird Trans Ams, a Main Street mainstay in the United States in the 1970s, accompanied many Iranian college students home. Kamran Alavizedeh, head of the American Car Club, owns three: a black '73, a red '76 and a '78 Gold Special Edition. Mr. Alavizedeh, a dentist, estimated the membership of the American Car Club at 250.
Other '70s G.M. cars are still seen in Iran, some that were officially imported and others that were assembled in Iran from kits, known as complete knock-downs, shipped from the United States. One of those, the 1976-79 Cadillac Seville, remains a favorite among collectors, Mr. Salehkhou said.
The eight-year war that followed Iraq's 1980 attack on Iran brought fuel rationing to the country. Owners of thirsty American cars stored them and drove more economical vehicles or used public transportation, Mr. Salehkhou said. That hiatus helped to preserve some cars; others were scrapped.
While many of these cars are hardly fuel-sippers, Mr. Salehkhou noted that owners benefited from subsidies that have held prices for an initial monthly allotment to 10 cents a gallon for regular-grade gasoline and 15 cents for premium; additional quantities can be bought for 45 or 55 cents a gallon. The government is phasing out its subsidies, however, and prices will rise.
With chrome exhaust pipes down its sides, a large air scoop on its hood and a jacked-up stance, Mr. Salehkhou's Camaro resembles the souped-up cars that prowled America in the 1970s. It is, in fact, muscle car royalty, a rare 1974 Baldwin-Motion Phase III Camaro from a long-defunct collaboration between a Long Island tuner shop, Motion Performance, and a nearby Chevrolet dealer, Baldwin Auto Company. This partnership produced some of the quickest Chevy muscle cars of the 1960s and 1970s; the Phase III versions were the most powerful and most expensive.
Mr. Salehkhou authenticated his car with its builder, Joel Rosen, Motion's founder, who confirmed that the Camaro was built in late 1973 and shipped to its original buyer in Tehran. By then, federal emissions regulations had ended sales of Motion's superpowered Chevys in the United States.
''When I talked to Joel and told him I had found the car, his reaction was like an artist rediscovering one of his lost works,'' Mr. Salehkhou said.
The blue Camaro, which had been the daily driver of a used-car salesman for several years, runs strongly but needs restoration. ''My biggest challenge, right now, is finding an original set of Hooker big-block side-mount headers,'' Mr. Salehkhou said, referring to the exhaust plumbing. ''The originals have been repaired so many times that they're all patchwork.''
Mr. Rosen referred Mr. Salehkhou to his longtime friend and business associate, Martyn L. Schorr, who was writing a book about Motion Performance. Mr. Schorr featured Mr. Salehkhou's Camaro in his book, with a photo of the car in Tehran. A friendship developed, and Mr. Schorr helped Mr. Salehkhou establish the first satellite group of the Sarasota Cafe Racers, a diverse non-club club that started in 2003. Its raison d'etre is simple: car guys who lunch.
One difficulty for collectors of American cars is finding repair parts, Mr. Salehkhou said. That is easiest for G.M. models, more difficult for Fords and hardest of all for Chrysler products.
Expertise is available, however. Ali Kalhor, owner of the '71 Camaro that raced against Mr. Salehkhou at the Azadi track and the holder of two Iranian drag racing titles, runs a highly regarded racing shop.
The Classic Car Committee, a volunteer group headed by Mr. Salehkhou, seeks to preserve and restore classic cars. The group works closely with the National Auto Museum, a collection of nearly 100 cars that remain from a fleet of high-end classics and exotics amassed by Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi, the ruler deposed in the 1979 revolution. The committee maintains and restores the cars at its own expense; the museum is working toward establishing a larger facility.
A few years ago, the committee successfully lobbied against legislation that would have required cars more than 25 years old to be scrapped. This fall, Mr. Salehkhou and other committee members assisted with logistics for the Iranian leg of the Peking to Paris Motor Challenge, a 10,000-mile vintage car rally, helping participants, including several American teams, through customs and border crossings.
Correction: November 21, 2010, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A credit last Sunday for pictures showing a gathering of Iranian car enthusiasts at the Azadi racetrack misspelled the photographer's surname. Sheis Newsha Tavakolian, not Tavakolioan.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SAFE PASSAGE: A vintage Chevy Camaro gets a mullah's blessing at a recent rally in Isfahan, Iran. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALI SAMANDARIAN)
AT THE TRACK: Passing time with an old MG.
FACEOFF: Vintage Mercedes SLs ready to race. (AU1)
UNIVERSAL LANGUAGE: Some Iranian enthusiasts show off their cars outside Tehran.
 RARE: Ramin Salehkhou with his Baldwin-Motion Camaro. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NEWSHA TAVAKOLIOAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AU3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (88%); SPORTS CARS (85%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); SEDANS (78%); LAWYERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); ESFAHAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (56%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



528 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: At Ambac, Haves and Have-Nots

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
LIFE is unfair, as everyone knows.
But never has this been clearer than in the aftermath of the financial crisis. Small banks that took no part in reckless lending are saddled with higher costs because of the bailout used to rescue big banks that messed up; individuals who scrimped and saved during the boom are being hurt by interest rates kept artificially low to rescue the economy.
Yet another situation involving haves and have-nots is evident in the workout plan covering policyholders of the Ambac Assurance Corporation, the Ambac Financial Group subsidiary that insured municipal and structured finance obligations.
Ambac Financial, which has been struggling since the crisis began, filed for bankruptcy protection last Monday after skipping an interest payment on a debt issue. Financial filings from Sept. 30 showed that Ambac had about $912 million in capital and about $7.9 billion in resources to pay claims. 
Ambac's insurance subsidiary is domiciled in Wisconsin, and Sean Dilweg, the state's insurance commissioner, is overseeing that unit's rehabilitation. He has submitted a plan for the subsidiary, which the Dane County Circuit Court must approve. A week of hearings on its pros and cons is scheduled to begin there on Monday.
Any plan to rehabilitate Ambac is bound to be complex, given the array of deals the company did in its high-cotton days. The company not only insured municipal debt and mortgage-backed securities, but it also wrote credit default swaps on collateralized debt obligations -- the same financial nitroglycerine that toppled the American International Group.
Mr. Dilweg says his plan treats all 15,000 Ambac policyholders fairly. In an interview last Friday, he conceded that his proposal is unique, saying, ''We have longstanding statutory tools that I am using to fully protect the policyholders.''
Ambac declined to comment.
THE commissioner's plan would separate the insurer into two entities. One, known as the ''segregated account,'' contains $50 billion in policies written on mortgage securities and a small group of other unrelated issues, like debt raised to build a monorail in Las Vegas. There are roughly $30 billion of mortgage securities in this account. Anyone who holds policies on mortgage debt would receive 25 cents on the dollar in cash on the claims and a note for the rest -- payable in 2020. The notes carry an interest rate of 5.1 percent.
The rest of the company, if the plan goes through, will contain all the other Ambac policies, predominantly those insuring municipal debt. Any parties that hold the $300 billion worth of policies in this segment will receive full value.
But a group of investors holding $23 billion of Ambac-insured mortgage securities are attacking the good-bank/bad-bank proposal in court. They argue that the plan is treating them unfairly by giving them just a fraction of the face value of their policies, even though the municipal debt policies would be paid in full.
This second-class treatment isn't the only element of Mr. Dilweg's plan that has upset the mortgage investors. They are also disturbed by the fact that in June the commissioner quietly allowed Ambac to unwind $13 billion in credit default swaps it had written for 14 financial institutions, most of them from overseas. Ambac paid $4.6 billion in cash and notes under this deal, depleting funds available to pay Ambac policyholders.
The money went out the door even though swaps aren't typically given the same kind of seniority in a bankruptcy as traditional insurance. In a bankruptcy filing, the holders of such swaps are generally considered unsecured creditors and have to be paid after holders of old-fashioned insurance.
Finally, the mortgage investors are astounded that Mr. Dilweg's plan keeps Ambac's executives, some of the same managers who wrecked the company, in place. Moreover, the plan protects these managers from lawsuits except for intentional fraud and willful misconduct. Participation in the plan bars investors from suing Ambac management for gross negligence, for example.
''A fundamental precept of rehabilitation is to eliminate the management that caused it -- that management must bear some responsibility for Ambac's financial collapse,'' lawyers for the investors said in a filing.
The company doesn't seem to agree. Late Friday, Ambac disclosed that it awarded its longtime general counsel a special bonus of $100,000 ''in recognition of his efforts to maximize the company's cash position.''
While all this might seem like just another food fight among financial titans, we beleaguered taxpayers have an interest in the outcome. That's because Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are among those objecting to the plan; the mortgage finance twins own $3.25 billion in Ambac-insured securities that Mr. Dilweg's plan would disadvantage.
Mr. Dilweg, who was appointed by the court as the overseer of the Ambac case, said that segregating the loss-ridden mortgage securities from other healthier deals insured by Ambac is the best approach for all its policyholders and for the public.
As for keeping management in place, Mr. Dilweg said that four new independent directors would help provide oversight at the insurance company. ''I recognize the conflict but we have a vendor relationship'' with the company, Mr. Dilweg said. ''If they are not performing I can sever the relationships with all 300 employees.''
He argued that the $4.6 billion deal with the foreign banks to unwind the credit default swaps benefited all of Ambac's policyholders. He said he considered the holders of those swaps to be policyholders.
''This is very different from the accepted practice in a federal bankruptcy proceeding,'' said David M. Greenwald, a lawyer at Jenner & Block, which represents a group of mortgage security policyholders. ''There, the court must hold a fairness hearing in which each side has to explain why the proposed settlement is fair to other creditors, and does not reward junior creditors in an early settlement at the expense of senior creditors -- in this case policyholders who by statute must be made whole first.''
In addition to the problematic swaps payout, other aspects of the proposal seem unfair to mortgage securities policyholders. While the plan is under consideration, Ambac has not been paying claims on mortgage securities that have experienced losses. But those investors continue to pay premiums into the general company account, which pays out 100 percent on municipal bond insurance claims -- but not on their mortgage debt insurance.
Then there's the fact that the general account -- not the mortgage securities account -- will receive any money Ambac recovers in its efforts to force mortgage originators to buy back improper loans insured by the company. It seems bizarre that those recoveries won't be channeled to the mortgage securities policyholders.
PATRICK J. TROSTLE, a lawyer at Jenner & Block, maintains that Mr. Dilweg's plan would trample on the contractual rights of many Ambac policyholders.
''Those policyholders would be required to wait years and years for payment of their claims with no certainty that full payment will ever come,'' he said. ''Meanwhile, the regulator is assisting the wrongful transfer of billions of dollars of assets to the parent shareholder and fighting to preserve a role for Ambac's management, which brought Ambac to its present plight.''
Not that we needed another example, but you can add Ambac's regulator-approved rehabilitation plan to the long list of cases where accountability for the financial mess is AWOL.
Online Correction: November 21, 2010, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this column misstated the type of legal proceeding involving Ambac Financial's insurance subsidiary in Wisconsin. The subsidiary is in a rehabilitation proceeding; it is the parent company that is in bankruptcy.
Correction: November 21, 2010, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Fair Game column last Sunday, about the Ambac Assurance Corporation, a unit of Ambac Financial, misstated the role of Sean Dilweg, the Wisconsin insurance commissioner, in the companies' reorganization plans. He is overseeing only the rehabilitation of Ambac Assurance, not the bankruptcy of Ambac Financial.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); INSURANCE POLICIES (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (75%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (70%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (66%); AMBAC FINANCIAL GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (66%); 8685 (TSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



529 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: Taking Care In Raising A Rookie

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

 BODY:
The cautionary tale will be just across the field from Sam Bradford on Sunday. Like the Rams' Bradford, the 49ers' Alex Smith was chosen first in his N.F.L. draft class and freighted with the enormous financial and emotional investments that franchises make in bright young quarterbacks.
When St. Louis (4-4) plays at San Francisco (2-6), Bradford will illustrate how a rookie quarterback can be nurtured for early success with a rebuilding team. Smith's early promise has been compromised by the 49ers' vicissitude, and he and the team have stagnated. Smith, who is recovering from a shoulder injury, could lose his starting job if Troy Smith plays well in his place.
Bradford's rapid progress does not come as a complete surprise. At the University of Oklahoma he drew lofty comparisons: study habits as voracious as Peyton Manning's, the best pro day workout since Troy Aikman's. Even after shoulder surgery, Bradford's arm was strong. And he had the benefit of sobering advice from Manning. 
''The biggest thing I got from him is that you have to understand you're not going to come in and understand everything overnight; you're not going to come in and be perfect Week 1,'' Bradford said as he prepared to burrow into more film study during the Rams' bye last week.
Manning's rookie season stands as a beacon of hope for quarterbacks who struggle early. He threw 26 touchdown passes and 28 interceptions. That Bradford started his first game reflects a recent shift in N.F.L. philosophy. For years, many teams, even those that were struggling, thought it was better to let even a first-round rookie quarterback sit on the bench so he could absorb the playbook without the pressure to elevate the franchise's fortunes. Philip Rivers became San Diego's starter in his third season, Aaron Rodgers became Green Bay's starter in his fourth, and the Giants' Eli Manning took over in late November of his rookie season.
But Atlanta's Matt Ryan and Baltimore's Joe Flacco started immediately in 2008 and battled for rookie of the year honors. Mark Sanchez of the Jets and Matthew Stafford of Detroit started their season openers last year.
''It's about the now and being effective and attempting to be an upper-echelon team as soon as possible,'' said Thomas Dimitroff, the Falcons' general manager, who drafted Ryan. ''I think the 2008 class really helped teams believe you can start young quarterbacks, be mindful about what they can offer, and it's been a very, very good thing for the league.''
The care of a rookie quarterback is crucial to his development. Many do not even know the proper way to watch game film. Teams that do the best jobs of building quarterbacks cover everything they will need, including how to lift weights to strengthen their upper bodies while generating power from their legs, how to manage crises with the news media and teammates, and how to behave in the locker room when they are successful. The Falcons, for instance, watched closely to see how Ryan handled himself in training camp as he rose from third string to backup to starter. He was confident, they noted, but did not try to exert his authority too soon.
On the field, the Rams followed a formula used by most of the recent success stories by developing a superb running game: Steven Jackson has rushed for 676 yards in eight games. Dimitroff said that the Falcons did not want Ryan to have to throw 50 times a game and that they did not want him anointed by other players as the only path toward a quick turnaround. So they insulated him with Michael Turner.
But much of the burden still falls on the quarterback to learn what might be an unfamiliar offensive system. Every Tuesday, usually the players' day off, Bradford meets alone with Coach Steve Spagnuolo, a former defensive coordinator, to go over aspects of the opponent's defense gleaned from film study. Bradford is usually the first to arrive and almost certainly the last to leave, Spagnuolo said, and like the most serious quarterbacks, he studies film on Tuesdays.
''I don't think I understood until I got here,'' Bradford said. ''Football is all I do now.''
Typically, teams with successful young quarterbacks scale down their playbooks to avoid overwhelming them. After an early spate of turnovers, the Jets devised a color-coded wristband system to help Sanchez last season.
''Let's limit reads, make protections such that we give him a chance to get the ball out,'' Spagnuolo said, explaining the Rams' mind-set. ''When the growth process went quicker than we thought, we started to expand a little. We're at the point where it doesn't get thrown up on the board and someone says, 'The quarterback is too young.' But you have to be careful of having too much confidence in him.''
As a rookie in 2005, Alex Smith said, he essentially lived at the San Francisco training center. He needed extra time to adjust from Utah's spread offense to learn the intricacies of the West Coast offense from Mike McCarthy, then the 49ers' offensive coordinator.
''It was such a blur,'' said Smith, who injured his shoulder in Week 7.
The former quarterback Trent Dilfer, an ESPN analyst, said limiting the playbook for rookies was the only model he had seen work. Smith started every game of 2006, when Norv Turner was his second offensive coordinator in two years, and the 49ers went 4-4 in the second half of the season. Dilfer, Smith's teammate at the time, said that Turner insisted on running only a handful of plays until Smith had mastered them. Then Turner would add a little more. By the middle of that season, Smith said, the offense had become clearer.
''That's why you see guys who have good rookie seasons often have sophomore slumps,'' Dilfer said. ''Because you start to expand the offense. Because coaches say: 'He's got it. We have Peyton Manning; let's go crazy.' And he can do it in the meeting room, and then you're in game, and it's, 'Wait, what's this?' ''
Whether or not Smith has the talent to be an elite N.F.L. quarterback, his growth has been slowed by continual upheaval around him. In his sixth season, Smith is working under his sixth offensive coordinator. He has sporadically lost his starting job.
Dilfer has remained close to Smith and laments his situation. Manning has called the same plays the same way for 13 years, providing what Dilfer said is probably a three-dimensional mental picture of each one. Smith, on the other hand, ''has had plays called 13 different ways,'' Dilfer said, adding, ''It's just a cluttered, confused mess.''
Even someone like Smith, who earned his degree in economics in two years, cannot keep up.
''You're basically pressing erase and starting over,'' he said of the way the coaching turnover has affected his development. ''You're never getting to a level of expertise as quarterback. You should know more about the offense than any coach in the building. When you constantly turn over, no one is reaching an expert level, especially the quarterback but all the guys around you, too. It's like learning a whole new language.''
The Rams and Bradford hope to avoid that fate. But in the meantime, as defenses see enough film to adjust to his tendencies, he may have to stave off the frustration and impatience that plagued Smith early on.
''Anyone that is a No. 1 pick is so accustomed to having those plays come so easily,'' Smith said. ''I was so used to making plays, I started to force it. I'd be thinking, 'You should be making plays by this time.' ''
Luckily for Bradford and the Rams, he is making them now. With a less-than-stellar receiving corps, he has completed 58.6 percent of his passes, with 11 touchdowns and 8 interceptions. He is the league's third-ranked passer on third down. And the Rams are tied with Seattle for the N.F.C. West lead.
''My mind is still racing,'' Bradford said. ''But compared to Week 1 and when I first got here, things have definitely slowed down.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The rookie Sam Bradford has 11 touchdown passes for the Rams. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF ROBERSON/ASSCCIATED PRESS) (SP1)
 Matt Ryan started throughout the 2008 season as a rookie, though the Falcons did not want him throwing 50 times a game. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN DUNN/GETTY IMAGES) (SP3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS INJURIES (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS RAMS (93%); SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS (91%); ATLANTA FALCONS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); GEORGIA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010



530 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 29B

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: With Sound Investments, Harp Company Endures

BYLINE: By MERIBAH KNIGHT. 
mknight@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
In a recession that shuttered longtime manufacturers, reshaped whole industries and sent millions of people looking for work, one might expect a company that makes $100,000 harps to be wobbling at the knees, if not toppled over by now.
But Lyon & Healy, the Chicago company that produces one of the music world's most esoteric instruments, knows something about weathering disasters, having survived the Great Chicago Fire in 1871 and the Great Depression. 
Even as domestic sales fell by 25 percent since 2008, the company, which opened in 1864 and made its first harp in 1889, kept all 135 employees on the payroll and continued to build its instruments using carefully selected hardwoods and master carvers.
''I think people are still looking for things that are sound investments,'' said Stephen Fritzmann, a master harpmaker and Lyon & Healy's national sales manager.
A steady rise in export sales, primarily in Asia, helped the company through the worst of the recession, as did its introduction two years ago of the Chicago Series, a line of harps beginning at about $10,000. The instruments offer customers a simpler and less expensive alternative to the company's higher-end offerings, while retaining the harp's signature sound. Lyon & Healy has sold 300 instruments from the series worldwide since they were introduced two years ago, in contrast to the two Louis XV models, priced at $129,000, that were bought in the past year. The most recent, purchased by a private harpist, was only the 11th sold since the model was introduced in 1916.
Lyon & Healy's harps ''just speak beautifully,'' Joanna Newsom, an innovative American harpist, wrote in an e-mail. ''They have such dynamic breadth and coloration. And I think they each have a sort of 'spirit.' ''
Though many harpists echo Ms. Newsom's praise of the Lyon & Healy sound, others prefer harps made by competitors, including Salvi, Venus and Horngacher.
But Lyon & Healy leads the pack, said Brian T. Majeski, editor of Music Trades magazine. ''My sense is that they have a monopoly,'' he said. ''Between Salvi and Lyon & Healy, there is no one else.''
The company may owe part of its economic durability to the fact that harps are having a bit of a moment. They have appeared on the hit television show ''Glee'' and have gotten a boost from Ms. Newsom, a Lyon & Healy devotee whose style has taken the instrument out of its classical mold and brought its sound to a general audience.
Lyon & Healy's commitment to staying in Chicago and training its employees in harpmaking techniques offers a refreshing counterpoint to the recession's trends of outsourcing and downsizing. The company also hosts an in-house winter concert series, now in its sixth season, which features renowned harpists from around the world.
''Lyon & Healy is the harp of choice,'' said Sarah Bullen, the principal harpist of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. ''For a generation of harpists, it's like the Steinway of the harp world.''
Ms. Bullen plays one of two Prince William models purchased for her by the orchestra. An ornate instrument with a mahogany finish and burnished gold leaf roses swirling around the base, it retails for $79,000. Ms. Bullen has played Lyon & Healy harps since she began her training at 8. Being in the town where they are made, she said, was one of the most thrilling aspects of moving to Chicago after playing with the New York Philharmonic.
The aroma of drying wood and the din of harp music fill the company's five-floor, 64,000-square-foot factory in the West Loop. The instruments pass through several stages of production -- building the mechanism and body, carving the column and base, and gilding and stringing the instrument. ''I still love just walking through those doors and being surrounded by all those harps,'' Ms. Bullen said.
Ms. Newsom plays a rented style No. 23, which stands just over 6 feet, weighs 81 pounds and is intricately carved along the base and crown with flowers. She said she was awe-struck during her first visit to the factory, which she described as the equivalent of ''stumbling on El Dorado.''
Maria Valadez has spent 22 years at the company assembling mechanisms, which grip individual strings to control their vibrations when a pedal is depressed. With more than 1,500 independently movable parts, she makes sure nothing is reverberating for the wrong reason. ''I love to do this,'' she said. ''Love.''
On the second floor, Peter Sosna, one of the company's craftspeople, assembled a Sitka spruce soundboard, which will need to withstand 2,000 pounds of pressure after the harp has been strung.
In the gilding room, Barbara Urban applied 23-karat gold leaf with a brush made from squirrel hair, and Grace Fryolryh rubbed the gold leaf with a polished agate stone to bring out its gleam. Ms. Fryolryh spends 320 hours polishing a No. 23 model, one of the company's top sellers. For the opulent Prince William, she will spend 560 hours, equal to 70 eight-hour days.
''Patience,'' she said. ''Patience.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Barbara Urban, above, works in the gilding room of the Lyon & Healy factory, right, which has been in Chicago since 1889.
 Rosa Gonzalez assembles tuning pins on the neck of a harp. Lyon & Healy has kept 135 employees through the recession. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SALLY RYAN/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (77%); MUSIC (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); SALES MANAGEMENT (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (70%); EXPORT TRADE (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010



531 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: A Torrent of College Applications

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Application Inflation'' (Education Life, Nov. 7):
Issues like the role application numbers play in college bond ratings and actual available slots for ''unhooked'' applicants are rarely discussed among professionals and never discussed with candidates. 
These aspects of college admissions demonstrate the misguided use of admissions data and the way these practices hurt applicants. We are concerned that in the aggressive marketing to our students, their humanity as teenagers is forgotten for the sake of numbers.
We encourage students to look beyond admit rates when considering colleges. This number does not tell an applicant about faculty accessibility, opportunities outside of the classroom or even the ability of your fellow students. You wouldn't choose a mate based on how many other potential spouses he or she denied, would you?
It is essential for all of us who help students in the college admissions process to keep the individual needs of the student at the core of our work. You rightly point out the ways in which today's iteration of the highly selective college admissions process seems to lose sight of the needs of the young people it is supposed to serve.
Eric Monheim Executive Director Association of College Counselors at Independent Schools Washington, Nov. 9, 2010
To the Editor:
As I've settled into my first year at the University of Chicago, there has been no talk among my classmates about SAT scores, acceptance rates and admissions marketing techniques. Instead, I've seen my classmates, liberated from the pressures of preparing a college resume, become passionate about their education.
Unfortunately, what most parents and students tend to lose sight of when applying to college is the learning that will occur in the four years after the big envelope comes; success in college is determined by personal and intellectual growth, not by simply getting in.
Sam Levine Chicago, Nov. 7, 2010
To the Editor:
It is disappointing that college admission officers are overlooking individuals who have tremendous potential as matriculating students. Instead of looking at every application separately, admission officers are acknowledging them as clusters.
A studious, hard-working applicant is rejected by Brown or Stanford because of an applicant who surpasses his or her statistics. But even that applicant is rejected because of the thousands of prospective students who applied as well.
Undoubtedly, there should be a cutoff in order to stop the uncertainty in admissions. Misleading a potential applicant into believing that he can be admitted from an extended waiting list is establishing false hope.Sabine Milien Brooklyn, Nov. 7, 2010
The writer is a high school senior.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BEN WEEKS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); BONDS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); PARENTING (76%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (73%); WRITERS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF PERFORMING ARTS PRESENTERS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%) ILLINOIS, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010



532 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: O.K., You Fix The Budget

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
Imagine that Democrats and Republicans somehow came together and agreed on a grand bargain to cut the deficit.
They decided to cut the pay of federal workers over the next several years, close military bases, reduce foreign aid, eliminate earmarks, expand the payroll tax and cut Social Security benefits for high earners, as the chairmen of a bipartisan commission recommended last week.
Democrats also accepted the plan from John Boehner, the presumptive House speaker, to make large cuts to social programs. Republicans accepted President Obama's proposal to let the Bush tax cuts expire on income above $250,000.
If the two parties managed to do all of this, how much of the country's long-term deficit would they eliminate? 
About one-third of it.
The looming federal deficits are so large that they are likely to occupy much of Washington's attention for years. Arguably, this new deficit obsession -- what some arecalling the Age of Austerity -- began this month. The midterm elections ushered in a Republican House majority pledging to shrink government, and on Wednesday the leaders of the bipartisan panel released the outline of a deficit-cutting plan for the panel's members to debate.
Like that panel, The New York Times has conducted its own analysis of the federal budget, but with a different final product. Rather than making recommendations, we are laying out a menu of major options, so that readers can come up with their own plan. We have received help along the way from the deficit panel, from Congressional and White House aides and from liberal, conservative and centrist budget analysts. The deficit puzzle on The Times's Web site is the result.
The ultimate goal is to help you judge the deficit proposals that are now emerging. Do you think they cut spending too much and should raise taxes more? Or the reverse? Are they too aggressive or too meek on military spending? How will they affect income inequality? How might they help or hurt economic growth?
As a starting point, it is worth thinking about the deficit as being two different deficits. The first is the medium-term deficit, which was created by the Iraq and Afghanistan wars, the 2003 Medicare drug plan, the Bush tax cuts, the recession and the government's responses, like the stimulus.
Assuming that current policies are continued -- for instance, that all the Bush tax cuts become permanent -- the deficit in 2015 will be about $400 billion larger than the level that economists consider sustainable. (Countries can run small deficits forever, because one year's economic growth effectively pays for the previous year's budget shortfall.)
And $400 billion is a significant sum. It will be equal to more than 2 percent of the country's economic output in 2015 -- half of the Pentagon's annual budget and more than half of Medicare's. Yet it is still much smaller, as a share of the economy, than the deficits that have hobbled Greece and Ireland. It is also smaller than the deficit this country ran from 1990 to 1994.
The 2015 deficit does not need to be closed immediately, when the economy remains weak. The deficit panel's chairmen, Erskine B. Bowles and Alan K. Simpson, called for a phased-in program of modestly higher taxes and cuts to social programs and the military. Some conservatives have criticized that plan for raising taxes at all, and some liberals dislike its emphasis on spending cuts and eliminating middle-class tax breaks.
However it is closed, the medium-term deficit does not appear to pose a huge threat to the American economy. Maya MacGuineas of the New America Foundation points out that simply letting all of the Bush tax cuts expire, not just those benefiting the affluent, would nearly do the job.
The long-term deficit is a wholly different beast.
It comes from the projected growth of Medicare, Medicaid and, to a lesser extent, Social Security. It is the result of baby boomers' having paid far less in taxes than they will draw in benefits. ''The reason we find ourselves in this situation,'' said Mr. Bowles, the former chief of staff for President Bill Clinton, ''is that we've made promises we can't keep.''
The deficit puzzle focuses on the year 2030 because it is far enough away that the boomers' retirement will weigh heavily on the budget but near enough that reasonable budget estimates exist. By 2030, the needed deficit cut will equal about 5.5 percent of annual economic output.
By comparison, domestic discretionary spending -- all of it, including Head Start, college financial aid, the F.B.I., medical research and airline safety -- will add up to about 3 percent of economic output, according to Congressional Budget Office projections. Military spending will equal about 4 percent.
So the solution will have to revolve around tax increases and changes to health care and Social Security. And the country cannot wait until 2030 to implement most of the changes, notes Alan Auerbach, an economics professor at the University of California at Berkeley. If it did, the interest on the national debt could become crushingly large. Deficit cutting will probably be a regular part of politics for the next couple of decades.
One obvious debate will be taxes versus spending. But relying exclusively on one would be extremely difficult. An approach based only on spending would mean deep cuts to programs that many Americans consider to be the essence of government: Medicare, Social Security and the military, among others. Closing the entire deficit through taxes would require enormous tax increases, mostly because Medicare spending is expected to continue growing much faster than income. To keep up, tax rates would have to keep rising.
The real issues, then, are how much taxes should rise, how much spending should be cut -- and what kinds of each change should take place.
You could choose to raise taxes mainly on the rich, because their tax rates have fallen steeply over the last few decades while their pretax income has soared. Or, knowing that many of the rich still have higher tax rates than anyone else, you could start the exercise by saying goodbye to the Bush tax cuts on income below $250,000.
No matter what you pick, keep in mind the potential effects on economic growth. Arguably, economic growth is the most important yardstick for any plan, because growth can do much to reduce the deficit, as it did after World War II and in the 1990s.
This helps explain why many economists favor a version of tax reform that would lower marginal rates and close loopholes. Ordinary tax cuts have a mixed record on helping the economy; growth after the Bush tax cuts was mediocre, for example. But tax reform could save households and businesses from changing their behavior, often inefficiently, to qualify for tax breaks. The Bowles-Simpson plan suggests several reforms that would raise more tax revenue than today's code and help close the deficit.
Of course, when economists say loopholes, they are including the deduction on home mortgage interest and other popular items. That's the problem with deficit cutting: it involves painful choices, like the ones you see here and the ones in the Bowles-Simpson plan that led to last week's outcries.
The government has not yet solved the deficit problem, the economist William Gale of the Brookings Institution says, because voters have not yet demanded it. They have rewarded politicians who say they are worried about the budget much more than politicians willing to make specific benefit cuts and tax increases. All of us would prefer generous benefits and low taxes.
''Whatever the eventual solution is,'' Mr. Gale said, ''it will probably be something that is not politically feasible now.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY FELIX SOCKWELL) (WK1 & WK5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (87%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); MEDICARE (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); CORPORATE TAX (72%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010



533 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Here's a Woman Fighting Terrorism. With Microloans.

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
LAHORE, Pakistan
An old friend of mine here fights terrorists, but not the way you're thinking. She could barely defeat a truculent child in hand-to-hand combat, and if she ever picked up an AK-47 -- well, you'd pray it was unloaded.
Roshaneh Zafar is an American- educated banker who fights extremism with microfinance. She has dedicated her life to empowering some of Pakistan's most impoverished women and giving them the tools to run businesses of their own. The United States should learn from warriors like her. 
Bullets and drones may kill terrorists, but Roshaneh creates jobs and educational opportunities for hundreds of thousands of people -- draining the swamps that breed terrorists.
''Charity is limited, but capitalism isn't,'' Roshaneh said. ''If you want to change the world, you need market-based solutions.'' That's the point of microfinance -- typically, lending very poor people small amounts of money so that they can buy a rickshaw or raw materials and start a tiny business.
Roshaneh grew up in elite circles here in Lahore and studied business at the Wharton School and economics at Yale. After a stint at the World Bank, she returned to Pakistan in 1996 to start her microfinance organization. She called it the Kashf Foundation.
Everybody thought Roshaneh was nuts. And at first nothing went right. The poor refused to borrow. Or if they borrowed, they didn't repay their loans.
But Roshaneh persisted, and today Kashf has 152 branches around the country. It has dispersed more than $200 million to more than 300,000 families. Now Roshaneh is moving into microsavings, to help the poor build assets, as well as programs to train the poor to run businesses more efficiently. She is even thinking of expanding into schools for the poor.
Microfinance is sometimes oversold as a silver bullet -- which it's not. Careful follow-up studies suggest that gains from microloans are often quite modest.
Some borrowers squander money or start businesses that fail. Some micro-lenders tarnish the field because they're incompetent, and others because they rake in profits with sky-high loan rates. Microfinance has also generally been less successful in Africa than in South Asia.
Yet done right, microfinance can make a significant difference. An outside evaluation found that after four years, Kashf borrowers are more likely than many others to enjoy improved economic conditions -- and that's what I've seen over the years as I've visited Kashf borrowers.
On this trip, I met a woman named Parveen Baji, who says she never attended a day of school and until recently was completely illiterate. She had 14 children, but five died.
Ms. Parveen's husband, who also never attended school, regularly beat her and spent the family savings on narcotics, she says. The family's only possessions were four cots on which they slept, crammed three or four to a cot, in a rented apartment.
''One night all my children were hungry,'' she remembered. ''I sent my daughter to ask for food from a neighbor. And the neighbor said, 'you've become a beggar,' and refused.''
Then Ms. Parveen got a $70 loan from Kashf and started a jewelry and cosmetics business, buying in bulk and selling to local shops. Ms. Parveen couldn't read the labels, but she memorized which bottle was which. As her business thrived, she began to struggle to learn reading and arithmetic -- and proved herself an ace student. I fired math problems at her, and she dazzled me with her quick responses.
Ms. Parveen began to start new businesses, even building a laundry that she put her husband in charge of to keep him busy. He no longer beats her, she says, and when I interviewed him separately he seemed a little awed by her.
Eventually, Ms. Parveen started a restaurant and catering business that now has eight employees, including some of her daughters. She bought a home and has put some of her children through high school -- and a son, the brightest student, through college. She has just paid $5,800 for a permit for him to move to London to take a health sector job.
Ms. Parveen tried to look modest as she told me this, but she failed. She was beaming and shaking her head in wonder as she watched her son speak English with me, dazzled at the thought that she was dispatching her university-educated son to Europe. ''Microfinance has changed my life,'' she said simply.
That's an unusual success story. But the larger message is universal: helping people start businesses, create jobs and support education is a potent way to undermine extremism.
We Americans overinvest in firepower to defeat extremism and underinvest in development, and so we could learn something useful from Roshaneh. The toolkit to fight terrorism includes not only missiles but also microfinance and economic opportunity.
The antonym of ''militant'' is often ''job.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); MICROFINANCE (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (78%); FAMILY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); JOB CREATION (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); PERSONAL FINANCE (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (79%); ASIA (78%); SOUTHERN ASIA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010



534 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 107 words

HEADLINE: LETTERS; A Lack of Discipline

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Saving Momma From the Train'' (Economic View, Nov. 7), in which Richard H. Thaler saw a chance for Republicans to make progress on ''fiscal discipline'' by dealing with the estate tax issue during the lame-duck session of Congress: 
What financial discipline? Did it reflect fiscal discipline to fund two wars (increasingly expensive in treasure and lives lost), or to approve tax cuts for the rich that have continued to increase the gap between rich and poor?
Slowly but surely, we may pull ourselves out of this fiscal morass, but it won't be because of promised Republican ''progress.''
Linda Worthman
Berkeley, Calif., Nov. 7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (87%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (87%); ESTATE TAX (84%); APPROVALS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010



535 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: The Hungarian Connection

 BODY:
MY grandparents emigrated from a small farming village in Transylvania, part of Romania, to Budapest, Hungary, a bustling city. My parents moved from Hungary to Sweden. I've lived in five countries besides the United States.
My family's experiences prepared me for emigration and have colored the way I look at the world. As a Hungarian, I had a few difficult encounters growing up in a small city in Sweden. The words for ''Hungary'' and ''jungle'' are similar in Swedish, so my classmates thought I was from the jungle and teased me. It taught me a lot about how people view others who are a bit different.
After high school, I studied two programs simultaneously that included both bachelor's and master's degrees. I started in engineering, in media technologies, the first time the program was offered at the Royal Institute of Technology. The program appealed to me because I had always liked being an explorer and walking my own path. For my second master's, I studied business so I could make my ideas about new media a reality. 
As part of my business program, I studied economics in Singapore for a semester. Then I took a break and studied Japanese and completed a training program at Fuji Xerox in Japan. I'd heard so many misconceptions about Asia that I wanted to immerse myself in the culture and see what it was really like.
Starting with my first job, at Mobispine, a mobile communications company in Sweden, it's been important for me to have a personal connection to the work. For example, when my mother became ill, I learned a lot about the Swedish health care system and thought this knowledge would benefit others. As a side project while at Mobispine, I designed a Web site with three friends that compared Swedish clinics and hospitals; it took three years. In 2009, we won an award from Internetworld, a Swedish magazine, for best Web site of the year in Sweden.
I got to know the founders of Prezi when I worked for Mobispine. As vice president responsible for our product portfolio, I was always on the lookout for software we could use.
In 2007, I met Peter Halacsy, a Prezi founder who was conducting research in the new-media department at Budapest University of Technology and Economics. He had developed a language analysis tool that Mobispine was interested in, and after talking to him for half an hour, I wanted to hire him. He turned me down, but then he called and asked me to lead Prezi. I agreed because I had always felt that people believed exciting projects couldn't originate in Hungary, and I was determined to prove them wrong.
Prezi is an interactive presentation tool similar to a white board that allows people to tell a story, zoom in and out, and collaborate. The company is based in the United States, but our other, larger office is in Hungary.
It was my personal connection to Prezi that allowed me to aim for the most challenging thing I could think of: getting TED to invest in it. I knew that if Prezi could partner with the popular TED conference, it would be an important vote of confidence and motivate everyone in the company. The conference organizers gave me 25 minutes to make a presentation, and when I finished they agreed to invest in our company. I felt pretty good because they are not in the business of investing in companies.
I have another side project now. I became interested in Japanese food when I lived in Japan. When I returned to Sweden, I couldn't find a cookbook for simple, everyday Japanese cooking, so I started one with a Japanese friend three or four years ago. It's a work in progress.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PETER ARVAI: C.E.O. of Prezi, a software company in San Francisco AGE: 31 RECENT VACATION: Spello, Italy FAVORITE TV CHARACTER: Spock, from 'Star Trek' EVENING ROUTINE: Bikram yoga (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAGNUS LARSSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (66%); HEALTH CARE (63%); WEB SITES (62%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%)

COMPANY: FUJI XEROX CO LTD (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) HUNGARY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ROMANIA (92%); SWEDEN (91%); JAPAN (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010



536 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2153 words

HEADLINE: Can Microlending Save Haiti?

BYLINE: By DANIEL COSTELLO

 BODY:
Leogane, Haiti
VENANTE LINO, a small-business owner who lost nearly everything in the devastating earthquake in January, stood in line here along with dozens of other impeccably dressed women, all waiting to pay the latest monthly installment on the emergency loans they received to rebuild their businesses.
Mrs. Lino approached a folding table in the courtyard of one of the few remaining buildings in this town, located near the quake's epicenter. She emptied her pockets of cash and gave all $40 to the loan officer.
''Every day, I wake up and ask God to make this better. Many days, I don't think he's listening,'' says Mrs. Lino, a 63-year-old grandmother who lives under a tarp in her backyard with three grown children and four grandchildren, surviving on the meager income from a small food and cooking-oil business she reopened this summer with loan money. ''Without this help, I don't know where my family would be.'' 
Here in this once-bustling coastal town about 20 miles west of Port-au-Prince, more than 30,000 people -- a third of the population -- died as a result of the quake. Throughout Haiti, the toll may be as high as 250,000, and the economic effects have been staggering. The country's economy is expected to contract by as much as 9 percent this year, and more than a million residents live in tent cities. And an outbreak of cholera, as well as a hurricane early this month, have left the nation even more vulnerable.
Especially hard hit are the tens of thousands of small-business owners, known as ti machann, who sell everything from heating oil to school uniforms from their homes and are often the sole breadwinners for their families. Because Haiti's credit markets remain frozen, people like Mrs. Lino would have had almost no chance to rebuild if it weren't for microbanks like Fonkoze, Haiti's largest, which gave loans to the women in Leogane.
In the best circumstances, sustaining a ''bank to the poor'' is no easy feat, but in Haiti after the earthquake, the challenge has been extraordinary. Even before the quake, 80 percent of the population lived on less than $2 a day. Today, while some 50 nations and organizations have pledged a total of $8.75 billion for reconstruction, less than 15 percent of the total promised for 2010-11 has arrived. (The United States has not yet paid all the $1.2 billion in reconstruction funds it pledged.)
Haitian microbanks provide a crucial lifeline to the poor, but their financial situations are sometimes nearly as precarious as those of their clients. Moreover, the banks are operating in a country that lacks many of the basic building blocks for businesses -- reliable transportation, communication and supply networks -- thus making the challenges all the more complex.
Their importance to hundreds of thousands of Haitian borrowers and savers gives these little institutions an outsize importance, making them ''simply too big to fail,'' said Greta Greathouse, a consultant with the United States Agency for International Development's microsavings and lending program in Haiti.
''You are dealing with a very vulnerable and fragile population,'' she said. The banks ''need to get stronger on a permanent basis so they can offset the operational risks that come with Haiti because of the earthquake and the inherent risks that are unfortunately a way of life for the country and its people.''
MICROCREDIT banks, or microbanks, were pioneered by Muhammad Yunus, the founder of the Grameen Bank, which started 40 years ago by giving loans of a few dollars each to poor entrepreneurs in Bangladesh. In 2006, Mr. Yunus received the Nobel Peace Prize for this work.
In most cases today, microcredit clients start off with loans of as little as $25 to start a small business. The loans are often given to women who tend to spend their earnings directly on their families and communities. Many borrow in groups of five or more, and all members of the group work together and are responsible for repayment.
Some microlenders provide only loans, while others also offer education and health services. Partly because costs are so high, effective interest rates are often significantly steeper than those at traditional banks. In Haiti, rates range from 30 percent to 55 percent a year.
''Haiti is one of the most complicated environments for anyone to do business, let alone a small lender with an extremely poor clientele,'' said Alex Counts, president of the Grameen Foundation, a nonprofit in Washington that fosters microlending. ''Appropriate levels of interest are important, but it's also essential these organizations continue to do the important work they do.''
One of the largest of Haiti's microcredit groups, Finca Haiti, wrote off almost a third of its portfolio after many clients died in the earthquake or lost their homes and businesses. A staggering 53 percent of its borrowers were late on their payments. After losses of its own, ACME, another Haitian microbank, raised additional capital this summer.
Fonkoze, Creole for ''shoulder to shoulder,'' was started by the Rev. Joseph Philippe, a Haitian priest, in the mid-1990s. It has 45,000 clients and 43 branches across the country, but it lost $2 million in the three years before the earthquake. In 2008, after losses from a particularly bad hurricane season, the organization considered closing its for-profit bank and incorporating that division's 24 branches.
Over all, the share of microcredit clients in Haiti who have defaulted or are at risk of doing so has risen to 18 percent, more than double the rate of a year ago. The international standard is 2 to 3 percent. Several of the Haitian microbanks, particularly some very small ones, could close or reduce their operations if their portfolios don't improve, according to microbanking experts in Haiti and elsewhere. It's likely that some will have to consolidate in order to survive.
Microbanks in other countries are increasingly aiming to become self-sustaining so they don't need to continually raise funds to pay operational expenses. Some have transformed themselves from nonprofit into for-profit banks, raising questions of whether altruism and capitalism can co-exist. India's largest microlender, SKS Microfinance, went public this summer, raising $358 million, and other banks may do the same.
While most microbanks in Haiti remain nonprofits, and have less financial transparency, Fonkoze started a for-profit bank (in addition to its nonprofit arm) in 2004 and reports both divisions' earnings. It operated at a loss for three years but has stabilized after $15 million in donations this year.
Haiti has had natural disasters before, of course. But the earthquake's impact on the nation's banks was staggeringly high, in no small part because of the damage in Port-au-Prince, the capital, which accounts for 60 percent of the country's gross domestic product. The banking sector, already fragile, was crippled. Out of 1,800 microbank employees in the affected region, 600 lost their homes. A quarter of the $38 million in outstanding microcredit loans in the region could end up defaulting, according to an analysis by Ms. Greathouse.
Despite the risks and financial costs, several Haitian microbanks are expanding, saying their loans are one of the only paths to self-sufficiency for the growing number of poor people in Port-au-Prince and the countryside.
For example, after losing a third of its 12,000 clients after the earthquake, Finca added back 1,000 clients this summer with the help of a grant from the Citibank Foundation. It's a risky move: the percentage of Finca Haiti clients who are more than 30 days behind on their payments, a standard known as portfolio at risk, remains at 35 percent.
In July, after its director was ambushed in an attempted robbery, the bank moved its headquarters from the capital to a nearby coastal city, Saint-Marc, according to Rupert Scofield, the president of Finca, which is based in Washington and operates in 21 countries.
When it comes to doing business, ''Haiti is probably the hardest place in the world right now outside maybe Afghanistan,'' Mr. Scofield says. ''It always seems just as things get stabilized, something else happens to pull the country back.''
Anne Hastings, Fonkoze's co-chief executive, has become something of an international aid celebrity: she was a high-profile attendee of the Clinton Global Initiative conference this fall in New York. (The bank's profile rose significantly in the days after the earthquake, when it was one of the only banks operating outside Port-au-Prince, and Ms. Hastings secured American military assistance to airlift $2 million in cash to desperate clients.)
Soon after the quake, Fonkoze wrote off 10,000 loans -- almost a quarter of its total number -- with funds from the Red Cross and others. The bank then gave each client a new loan and a one-time cash payment of $125, at a total cost of $8.5 million.
In recent months, the bank has broadened its health program and aggressively stepped up its operations, particularly in rural areas where poverty rates are highest and seem to be growing.
The bank has enlarged a loan program, called Ti Kredi, or Little Credit, to reach poor families that are not ready for larger loans. Ti Kredi offers loans of just $25, shorter repayment periods, additional support from loan officers, and literacy and health classes.
In another program, clients are offered goats or chickens so they can sell milk or eggs, as well as a weekly stipend of $7 to help with expenses, and to ensure that they don't need to kill the animals because they are hungry.
SINCE the summer, Fonkoze loan officers have canvassed the lush, mountainous region on motorcycles, in pickup trucks or on foot to sign up as many as 3,000 new clients and to meet with existing ones to monitor their progress and to collect loan payments.
One recent rainy day, Steve Werlin rode for more than an hour on the back of a pickup truck outside Mirebalais, a small, central plateau town two hours north of Port-au-Prince. Mr. Werlin, a regional Fonkoze director, was on his way to meet Marie Ange Joute, a 30-year-old mother of two. Ms. Joute joined Fonkoze in September and lives with her children, mother, sister and niece (who was sick with a severe eye infection) in a small mud house with a tin roof on a 20-by-20-foot parcel of land. The house, which Ms. Joute inherited from her father, is her only asset, and she said the family had sometimes gone without food and medical care over the last year.
She has no business background but recently received two chickens and a goat from the bank and started selling eggs and heating oil from her house. To save enough money to expand her inventory, she joined a savings club with 10 local Fonkoze clients. Each woman saves a third of her weekly stipend so that once every 10 weeks, they get a lump-sum payment of $20 for larger purchases.
Clients are required to do many things on their own, and face penalties if they cannot meet certain goals. On the day of the visit, Ms. Joute had yet to build a shed for her goat, which could become sick in the rain. So she was told she wouldn't get her stipend the next week unless the shed was built. (Fonkoze gave her materials and training to build the shed, and she complied.)
''I want to make my own money and care for my family,'' she said. ''I want to provide for us if something goes bad. I know how to work.''
AFTER the upcoming presidential elections, Haiti's government is expected to issue new banking regulations, including rules for microlenders. They aren't regulated now, though they have appealed for years to the government for rules that could bring more certainty to the industry. If a microbank went out of business, for example, it is not clear what would happen to the many clients who deposit their savings in the bank.
Fonkoze has 200,000 savings accounts, totaling $14 million. Currently, it uses those funds to make new loans, and it says that all of its accounts are secure. Because it was able to write off risky loans early this year, according to James Kurz, a senior Fonkoze financial adviser, its portfolio at risk has fallen to 5 percent in recent months.
If Haiti's economy doesn't improve and the country cannot stem various other problems, even some people who have managed to eke out a living with the help of microcredit could face more difficulty.
Sainte Anne Louis sells sodas, canned goods, clothing and homemade peanut butter outside her home in Mirebalais, yards away from a construction site for a new rural teaching hospital. She says her sales have fallen by nearly half this year, in part because it has been hard to secure enough inventory.
Mrs. Louis, 54, supports her entire family, including her husband, two daughters and their families. She worries about what will happen if things don't improve soon. ''We are grateful for what we have today,'' she says, ''but we pray tomorrow will be better.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Since the earthquake, microbanks have been working to keep credit flowing to businesses like this fabric store. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LESLIE THURMAN) (BU1)
More than a million Haitians live in tent cities, like Leogane's, left, shown in June. Muhammad Yunus, above, was microcredit's pioneer. Linda Boucard of Fonkoze, below, met with clients. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THONY BELIZAIRE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
LUCAS JACKSON/REUTERS
 LESLIE THURMAN) (BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (90%); MICROFINANCE (89%); JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); GRANDPARENTS (74%); GRANDCHILDREN (74%); CHILDREN (73%); FAMILY (73%); HEATING OIL (68%); TROPICAL DISEASES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010



537 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: I Believe I Can Fly

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Reading the headlines these days, I can't help but repeat this truism: If you jump off the top of an 80-story building, for 79 floors you can think you're flying. It's the sudden stop at the end that tells you you're not. It's striking to me how many leaders and nations are behaving today as though they think they can fly -- and ignoring that sudden stop at the end that's sure to come. 
Where to begin? Well, first there's Israel's prime minister, Bibi Netanyahu, who has been telling everyone how committed he is to peace with the Palestinians while refusing to halt settlement building as a prerequisite for negotiations. At a time when Israel already has 300,000 settlers in the West Bank, Bibi says he can't possibly take another pause in building to test whether the Palestinian government of President Mahmoud Abbas -- a man Israelis say is the best Palestinian security partner Israel has ever had -- can forge a safe two-state deal for Israel. The U.S. is now basically trying to bribe Bibi to reverse his position. Maybe he will, but it's unseemly to watch and doesn't bode well. Rather than take the initiative and say to Arabs and Palestinians, ''You want a settlement freeze? Here it is, now let's see what you're ready to agree to,'' Netanyahu toys with President Obama, makes Israel look like it wants land more than peace and risks never forging a West Bank deal -- thereby permanently absorbing its 2.5 million Palestinians and eventually no longer having a Jewish majority. That's the sudden stop at the end -- unless the next war comes first. But, for now, Bibi seems to think he can fly.
Closer to home, America's climate-deniers mounted an effective disinformation campaign that made ''climate change'' a four-letter word in the Republican Party. This undermined efforts to get a clean energy bill -- the sort that might break our addiction to oil and take money away from the people our soldiers are fighting in the Middle East. And all of this happened in 2010, which is on track to be the Earth's hottest year on record. So here's the math: 98 climate scientists out of 100 will tell you that man's continued carbon emissions pose the risk of disruptive climate change this century. Two out of 100 will tell you it doesn't. And ''conservatives'' today tell you to bet on the two. If the climate-deniers are right -- but we combat climate change anyway -- we'll have slightly higher energy prices but cleaner air, more renewable energy, a stronger dollar, more innovative industries and enemies with less money. If the deniers are wrong and we do nothing, your kids will meet the sudden stop at the end.
Many of the same people working against clean energy are working to scuttle Senate ratification of the New Start nuclear arms reduction treaty that Mr. Obama signed with Russian President Dmitri Medvedev. This treaty is right in line with the previous three U.S.-Russia arms reduction deals, all negotiated by G.O.P. administrations. It leaves America secure, a world and a Russia with fewer nukes and it promotes better ties with the Kremlin. Scuttling the treaty, just to deny Mr. Obama a success, which is what some Republican senators are up to, will not only ensure that U.S.-Russian relations sour, it will also make it much less likely that the Russians -- whose pressure on Iran and willingness to deny it surface-to-air missiles have been critical in slowing Iran's nuclear program -- will continue to cooperate with us on that front. But, hey, who cares about weakening Iran or U.S.-Russian ties if you can weaken your own president? We can fly.
Finally, there is something deeply wrong about Mitch McConnell, the Senate G.O.P. leader, saying that ''the single most important thing we want to achieve is for President Obama to be a one-term president.'' McConnell explained that that was not because Republicans simply crave power (heaven forbid), but because this is the only way Republicans can achieve their goals of repealing the health care bill, ending bailouts, cutting spending and shrinking government.
Where do I start? We know that these were not the Republican goals because they had eight years under George W. Bush to pursue them and did just the opposite. And even if we assume that this time they really mean it, they've never explained what programs they would cut and how doing that now won't make our recession worse. But even if they did, these are the wrong priorities. Our priorities now are to mitigate the recession that was set in motion under Bush and to put the country on a path to sustainable economic growth. That will require vastly improving the education and skills of our work force and enabling them with 21st-century infrastructure so they will be smarter and more productive. We know that tax cuts alone won't do that; we just had that test, too, under Bush. It requires a complex strategy for American renewal -- raising some taxes, like on energy, while lowering others, like on workers and corporations; and investing in new infrastructure, schools and research, while cutting other services.
I don't mind if Republicans win with fresh new ideas -- but not with a grab bag of tired cliches. That's just begging for a sudden stop at the end.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (85%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); CONSERVATISM (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); EMISSIONS (65%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (61%); GREENHOUSE GASES (61%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (60%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (60%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (79%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (54%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (79%) ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010



538 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: Get a Pencil. You're Tackling the Deficit.

 BODY:
1
Try to cut $1.345 trillion from the 2030 budget. Why 2030? That's when boomers start to weigh heavily on the budget, and it's the latest year for which experts have estimated 
costs for budget items. Each square ( ) in the big grid below represents $1 billion. Your job is to fill in these squares by choosing from our menu of spending cuts and tax hikes.
2
Below is the menu of options
for plugging this $1.345 trillion
hole. Yes, we know: real-world
policymakers have more moves
than just these. But we are
presenting options that span all
major sectors of the budget and
many points across the political
spectrum.
Your options come in two
flavors: cutting spending
and raising tax revenue.
Our menu contains almost
triple the cuts and revenue
hikes needed to plug the deficit,
so you will be able to ignore
some choices you don't like.
3
Scan the options and consider their consequences.
Then start making choices.
Each option has an amount, in billions of dollars, by
which it would reduce the deficit. As you make each
choice, fill in that number of squares on the big grid at
left. Just 1,345 squares later, presto! Problem solved.
To make it easier, estimates listed below are rounded to
the nearest $5 billion. The grid is organized the same way.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Spending Options: These total $1.81 trillion
Revenue Options: These total $1.955 trillion (Sources: New York Times analysis of data provided by Alan Auerbach and William Gale
Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget
Tax Policy Center
Congressional Budget Office
Sustainable Defense Task Force
Cato Institute
Economic Policy Institute
National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform
Joint Committee on Taxation
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
 Social Security Administration) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TAX INCREASES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX LAW (71%)

ORGANIZATION: CATO INSTITUTE (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (59%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%); SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010



539 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1454 words

HEADLINE: Cigarette Giants In a Global Fight On Tighter Rules

BYLINE: By DUFF WILSON; Aubrey Belford contributed reporting.

 BODY:
As sales to developing nations become ever more important to giant tobacco companies, they are stepping up efforts around the world to fight tough restrictions on the marketing of cigarettes.
Companies like Philip Morris International and British American Tobacco are contesting limits on ads in Britain, bigger health warnings in South America and higher cigarette taxes in the Philippines and Mexico. They are also spending billions on lobbying and marketing campaigns in Africa and Asia, and in one case provided undisclosed financing for TV commercials in Australia.
The industry has ramped up its efforts in advance of a gathering in Uruguay this week of public health officials from 171 nations, who plan to shape guidelines to enforce a global anti-smoking treaty.
This year, Philip Morris International sued the government of Uruguay, saying its tobacco regulations were excessive. World Health Organization officials say the suit represents an effort by the industry to intimidate the country, as well as other nations attending the conference, that are considering strict marketing requirements for tobacco. 
Uruguay's groundbreaking law mandates that health warnings cover 80 percent of cigarette packages. It also limits each brand, like Marlboro, to one package design, so that alternate designs don't mislead smokers into believing the products inside are less harmful.
The lawsuit against Uruguay, filed at a World Bank affiliate in Washington, seeks unspecified damages for lost profits.
''They're using litigation to threaten low- and middle-income countries,'' says Dr. Douglas Bettcher, head of the W.H.O.'s Tobacco Free Initiative. Uruguay's gross domestic product is half the size of the company's $66 billion in annual sales.
Peter Nixon, a vice president and spokesman for Philip Morris International, said the company was complying with every nation's marketing laws while selling a lawful product for adult consumers.
He said the company's lawsuits were intended to combat what it felt were ''excessive'' regulations, and to protect its trademark and commercial property rights.
Cigarette companies are aggressively recruiting new customers in developing nations, Dr. Bettcher said, to replace those who are quitting or dying in the United States and Europe, where smoking rates have fallen precipitously. Worldwide cigarette sales are rising 2 percent a year.
But the number of countries adopting tougher rules, as well as the global treaty, underscore the breadth of the battleground between tobacco and public health interests in legal and political arenas from Latin America to Africa to Asia.
The cigarette companies work together to fight some strict policies and go their separate ways on others. For instance, Philip Morris USA, a division of Altria Group, helped negotiate and supported the anti-smoking legislation passed by Congress last year and did not join a lawsuit filed by R. J. Reynolds, Lorillard and other tobacco companies against the Food and Drug Administration. So far, it is not protesting the agency's new rules, proposed last week, requiring graphic images with health warnings on cigarette packs.
But Philip Morris International, the separate company spun out of Altria in 2008 to expand the company's presence in foreign markets, has been especially aggressive in fighting new restrictions overseas.
It has not only sued Uruguay, but also Brazil, arguing that images the government wants to put on cigarette packages do not accurately depict the health effects of smoking and ''vilify'' tobacco companies. The pictures depict more grotesque health effects than the smaller labels recommended in the United States, including one showing a fetus with the warning that smoking can cause spontaneous abortion.
In Ireland and Norway, Philip Morris subsidiaries are suing over prohibitions on store displays.
In Australia, where the government announced a plan that would require cigarettes to be in plain brown or white packaging to make them less attractive to buyers, a Philip Morris official directed an opposition media campaign during the federal elections last summer, according to documents obtained by an Australian television program, and later obtained by The New York Times.
The $5 million campaign, purporting to come from small store owners, was also partly financed by British American and Imperial Tobacco. The Philip Morris official approved strategies, budgets, ad buys and media interviews, according to the documents.
Mr. Nixon, the spokesman, said Philip Morris made no secret of its financing of that effort. ''We have helped them, not controlled them,'' he said.
Mr. Nixon said Philip Morris agreed that smoking was harmful and supported ''reasonable'' regulations where none exist.
''The packages definitely need health warnings, but they've got to be a reasonable size,'' he said. ''We thought 50 percent was reasonable. Once you take it up to 80 percent, there's no space for trademarks to be shown. We thought that was going too far.''
These days in courts around the world, the tobacco giants find themselves on the defensive far more than playing offense. The W.H.O. and its treaty encourage governments and individuals to take legal action against cigarette corporations, which have encountered growing numbers of lawsuits from smokers and health care systems in Brazil, Canada, Israel, Italy, Nigeria, Poland and Turkey.
But in other parts of the world, notably Indonesia, the fifth-largest cigarette market, which has little regulation, tobacco companies market their products in ways that are prohibited elsewhere. In Indonesia, cigarette ads run on TV and before movies; billboards dot the highways; companies appeal to children through concerts and sports events; cartoon characters adorn packages; and stores sell to children.
Officials in Indonesia say they depend on tobacco jobs, as well as revenue from excise taxes on cigarettes. Indonesia gets some $2.5 billion a year from Philip Morris International alone.
''In the U.S., they took down billboards, agreed not to sponsor music events, no longer use the Marlboro cowboy,'' said Matthew L. Myers, president of the Washington-based Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids. ''They now do all of those things overseas.''
The world's second-biggest private cigarette maker, British American Tobacco, with $4.4 billion profits on $23 billion sales in the year ending June 30, is spending millions of dollars lobbying against anti-smoking health measures, like smoke-free air policies in the European Union.
A video on the company's Web site says some of the proven methods of reducing smoking -- like taxes and display bans -- encourage a black market in cigarettes and that, in turn, would finance drug, sex and weapons traffickers and terrorists.
The six-minute video, in which actors play gangsters, one with an Eastern European accent, concludes, ''Only the criminals benefit.''
The conference beginning on Monday in Punta del Este, Uruguay, will try to add specific terms to a public health treaty known as the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, which since 2003 has been ratified by 171 nations. It would eventually oblige its parties to impose tighter controls on tobacco ingredients, packaging and marketing, expand cessation programs and smoke-free spaces and raise taxes -- proven tactics against smoking.
President George W. Bush signed the treaty in 2004 but did not send it to the Senate, where a two-thirds vote is needed for ratification. President Obama hopes to submit it to the Senate next year, a White House spokesman said on Thursday.
One recommendation drawing fire from tobacco farmers would either restrict or prohibit the use of popular additives, like licorice and chocolate, to blended tobacco products that account for more than half of worldwide sales.
The International Tobacco Growers' Association says that could threaten the makers of burley tobacco, an air-cured leaf that has long been sweetened with additives, costing millions of farmers their jobs and devastating economies worldwide.
''We all know the real objective here is to eliminate tobacco consumption,'' says Roger Quarles, a Kentucky grower and president of the association.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 21, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Sunday about legal tactics that big tobacco companies are using globally to fight tough restrictions on cigarette marketing described incorrectly the total of goods and services produced by Uruguay, whose regulations have been challenged in court by Philip Morris International. Uruguay's gross domestic product -- not its gross domestic profit -- is half the size of the tobacco company's $66 billion in annual sales.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers making cigarettes in East Java in Indonesia. The country has not signed on to the global anti-smoking treaty. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SIGIT PAMUNGKAS/REUTERS) (A12) MAP: Restricting Tobacco Advertising: As tobacco advertising bans are taking effect in much of the world, the cigarette industry is looking for more of its new customers in developing nations. (SOURCE: World Health Organization) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (90%); LITIGATION (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SMOKING BANS (78%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); DAMAGES (74%); TRADEMARKS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (64%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (61%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (54%)

COMPANY: PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC (92%); BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO PLC (90%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (84%); PHILIP MORRIS USA (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (83%)

TICKER: PMI (SWX) (92%); PM (PAR) (92%); PM (NYSE) (92%); BTI (NYSE MKT) (90%); BTI (JSE) (90%); BATS (LSE) (90%); MO (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (92%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (50%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: URUGUAY (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); AFRICA (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); MEXICO (92%); INDONESIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010



540 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; IDEA LAB; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1839 words

HEADLINE: Post-Tea-Party Nation

BYLINE: By DAVID FRUM. 
David Frum is the editor of Frumforum.com.

 BODY:
Republicans lost the presidency in 2008 in large part because of the worst economic crisis since World War II. Republicans have now regained the House of Representatives for the same reason. In the interval, Republicans ferociously attacked the Obama administration's economic remedies, and there certainly was a lot to attack. But the impulse to attack, it must be recognized, was based on more than ideology; it also served important psychological imperatives. Not since Jimmy Carter handed the office to Ronald Reagan -- arguably not since Herbert Hoover yielded to Franklin Roosevelt -- had a president of one party bequeathed a successor from another party so utter an economic disaster as George W. Bush bequeathed to Barack Obama. And while the Bush administration took wise and bold steps to correct the disaster, the unpopularity of its Troubled Asset Relief Program bequeathed the Obama administration a political disaster alongside the economic disaster.
It's an uncomfortable memory, and until now Republicans have coped with it by changing the subject and hurling accusations. Those are not good enough responses from a party again entrusted with legislative power. If Republicans are to act effectively and responsibly, we need to learn more positive and productive lessons from the crisis. 
Lesson 1: The danger of closed information systems. Well before the crash of 2008, the U.S. economy was sending ominous warning signals. Median incomes were stagnating. Home prices rose beyond their rental values. Consumer indebtedness was soaring. Instead, conservatives preferred to focus on positive signals -- job numbers, for example -- to describe the Bush economy as ''the greatest story never told.''
Too often, conservatives dupe themselves. They wrap themselves in closed information systems based upon pretend information. In this closed information system, banks can collapse without injuring the rest of the economy, tax cuts always pay for themselves and Congressional earmarks cause the federal budget deficit. Even the market collapse has not shaken some conservatives out of their closed information system. It enfolded them more closely within it. This is how to understand the Glenn Beck phenomenon. Every day, Beck offers alternative knowledge -- an alternative history of the United States and the world, an alternative system of economics, an alternative reality. As corporate profits soar, the closed information system insists that the free-enterprise system is under assault. As prices slump, we are warned of imminent hyperinflation. As black Americans are crushed under Depression-level unemployment, the administration's policies are condemned by some conservatives as an outburst of Kenyan racial revenge against the white overlord.
Meanwhile, Republican officeholders who want to explain why they acted to prevent the collapse of the U.S. banking system can get no hearing from voters seized with certainty that a bank collapse would have done no harm to ordinary people. Support for TARP has become a career-ender for Republican incumbents, and we shall see what it does to Mitt Romney, the one national Republican figure who still defends TARP.
The same vulnerability to closed information systems exists on the liberal side of U.S. politics as well, of course. But the fact that my neighbor is blind in one eye is no excuse for blinding myself in both.
Lesson 2: ''Themarket'' (the whole free-market system) must be distinguished from ''the markets'' (the trading markets for financial assets). Perhaps it's because the most influential conservative voice on economic affairs is The Wall Street Journal. Perhaps it's because conservatism disproportionately draws support from retirees who store their savings in traded financial assets. Perhaps it's because a booming financial sector is uniquely generous with its campaign contributions. Whatever the reason, the intellectual right accords a deference to the wants and wishes of the financial industry that is seldom accorded to agriculture, manufacturing, transport or retailing.
But it's not always true that what's good for Goldman Sachs is good for the economy, or vice versa. Nor is what ''the markets'' want the same as what free-market economics require. Finance plays with other people's money: financial disasters damage people and businesses who never participated in the fatal transaction. For that reason, financial firms are justly regulated in ways that other firms are not. And yet nearly 80 years after the creation of the Securities and Exchange Commission, influential conservatives -- including The Wall Street Journal editorial board -- argued that trillions of dollars of derivatives trading should be exempt from regulation.
Lesson 3:The economy is more important than the budget. During the recession of 1981-82, Democratic politicians demanded that a Republican president set a balanced budget as his top priority. Ronald Reagan disregarded this advice. He held firm to his tax cuts: once the economy returned to prosperity, there would be time then to deal with the deficit.
Today, the positions are reversed. The big Republican idea of 2010 was Congressman Paul Ryan's budget road map, which offered a serious plan to address Social Security and Medicare shortfalls. But what's the most striking fact about Ryan's budget plan is precisely that it is a budget plan -- it's a document concerned with government finance, not the crisis in the economy. How will balancing the budget in the 2020s and 2030s, which is when the plan has most of its impact, create jobs and save homes in the here and now? This was the kind of problem that preoccupied the supply-siders of the 1980s and should again preoccupy Republicans today.
If Republicans reject Obama-style fiscal stimulus, what do they advocate instead? A monetarist might recommend more money creation, even at the risk of inflation: ''quantitative easing,'' as it's called. Yet leading voices in the Republican Party have convinced themselves that the country is on the verge of hyperinflation -- a Weimar moment, says Glenn Beck. But if fiscal stimulus leads to socialism, and quantitative easing leads to Nazism, what on earth are we supposed to do? Cut the budget? But we won't do that either! On Sean Hannity's radio show, the Republican House leader John Boehner announced just before the election that one of his first priorities would be the repeal of the Obama Medicare cuts.
Lesson 4: Even from a conservative point of view, the welfare state is not all bad. G. K. Chesterton observed that you should never take a fence down until you understand why it had been put up. We should remember why the immediate post-Depression generations created so many social-welfare programs. They were not motivated only -- or even primarily -- by ''compassion.'' They were motivated as well by the desire for stability.
Social Security, unemployment insurance and other benefits were designed as anti-Depression defenses, ''automatic stabilizers'' as economists called them. When people lost their jobs, their incomes did not drop by 100 percent, but by 30 percent or 40 percent: they could continue to pay rent, buy food and sustain society's overall level of demand for goods and services. State pensions created a segment of society whose primary incomes remained stable regardless of economic conditions. The growth of the higher-education sector and of health care had a similar effect.
This shift to a more welfare-oriented economy helps explain why business cycles in the second half of the 20th century were so much less volatile than they were in the 19th century. And fortunately enough, this shift put a floor under the economic collapse of 2008-09. Retirees who lost their savings had to cut back painfully. But at least their Social Security checks continued to arrive. People who lost their jobs might lose their homes. But they continued to buy food and clothing. And the industries that sold those basic necessities continued to function -- unlike in 1929-33, when the whole economy collapsed upon itself.
Those who denounce unemployment insurance as an invitation to idleness in an economy where there are at least five job seekers for every available job are not just hardening their hearts against distress. They are rejecting the teachings of Milton Friedman, who emphasized the value of automatic stabilizers fully as much as John Maynard Keynes ever did. Conservatives should want a smaller welfare state than liberals in order to uphold maximum feasible individual liberty and responsibility. But the conservative ideal is not the abolition of the modern welfare state, and we should be careful of speaking in ways that communicate a more radical social ideal than that which we actually uphold and intend.
Lesson 5:Listen to the people -- but beware of populism. Listen to the people and politicians who gather under the label ''the Tea Party,'' and you are overwhelmed by the militant egalitarianism of their message, the distrust of elites, the assertion that the Tea Party speaks for ordinary Americans against a privileged ruling class.
Non-Tea Party Americans may marvel that any group can think of itself as egalitarian when its main political goals are to cut off government assistance to the poorest and reduce taxes for the richest. But American populism has almost always concentrated its anger against the educated rather than the wealthy. So much so that you might describe contemporary American politics as a class struggle between those with more education than money against those with more money than education: Jon Stewart's America versus Bill O'Reilly's, Barack Obama versus Sarah Palin.
For that reason, conservatives in recent years have ridden populist waves more successfully than liberals have done. Yet conservatives will not find it much easier than liberals to govern a society where so many people feel themselves cheated -- and where so many refuse to believe that the so-called experts care for the interests of anyone beyond their narrow coterie and class. In the face of such disbelief, how to champion free trade? How to reduce America's very high corporate income tax? How to lower the trajectory of health care spending? How to sustain international commitments? How to upgrade educational standards?
The U.S. political system is not a parliamentary system. Power is usually divided. The system is sustained by habits of cooperation, accepted limits on the use of power, implicit restraints on the use of rhetoric. In recent years, however, those restraints have faded and the system has delivered one failure after another, from the intelligence failures detailed in the 9/11 report to the stimulus that failed to adequately reduce unemployment, through frustrating wars and a financial crash. The message we hear from some Republicans -- ''this is no time for compromise'' -- threatens to extend the failures of governance for at least two more years. These failures serve nobody's interest, and the national interest least of all.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HIMI KOZUE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); BANK FAILURES (68%); TAX LAW (62%); PERSONAL DEBT (50%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JIMMY CARTER (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); GLENN BECK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010



541 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: In Looking Beyond the Midterms, Even Opposites Can Sound Alike

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
ESTES PARK, Colo. -- How are Americans thinking about the future after the great reshuffling of the deck on Election Day that carried Republicans into power in the House of Representatives and across the constellation of state capitals?
If you ask Lizzie Adams and Wendy Craddock that question, you get a strikingly similar answer, even though Ms. Adams is a passionate supporter of President Obama and Ms. Craddock is a Republican who believes that the Tea Party movement, to which she belongs here in Larimer County, will reshape and reclaim America.
Both said this election, whether out of defeat or victory, was a renewed call to action and engagement -- an alarm signal to push harder than ever in support of steadfast convictions. Many other voters, in a post-election swing through this deeply divided, fought-over county, expressed a similar thought: election over, game on.
''It's a call to participation,'' said Ms. Adams, 49, a yoga instructor. ''I'm planning to just show up and see what I can do. Now more than ever, we have to just keep showing up. Obama needs us on his team.'' 
Ms. Craddock, 58, a small-business owner, said her energy was over-brimming, too, pointing full speed ahead toward reversing everything that Mr. Obama and Democrats have done in the last two years.
''I think this is going to end up probably being the best thing in American history that's ever happened,'' she said. ''We have awakened.''
Larimer County, a historically Republican part of northern Colorado that, like the state as a whole, is becoming harder to predict, cemented its position as a bellwether on Election Day.
The results -- especially in the closely watched Senate race, won by Michael Bennet, a Democrat -- provided an exact mirror of the statewide tally. Mr. Bennet, the incumbent, won Colorado with 47.7 percent of the vote, to 46.8 percent for the Republican candidate, Ken Buck. In Larimer, Mr. Bennet got 47.8 percent of the vote.
The divisions in the county were further underscored in the Fourth Congressional District race. Representative Betsy Markey, a Democrat, carried Larimer by 115 votes out of more than 114,000 cast, but she lost to her Republican opponent, Cory Gardner, when the more rural and Republican areas in the district came in strongly for him.
Many voters here, interviewed on a recent gray and frigid day threatening snow at 7,500 feet in the mountains, said they thought that gridlock in Washington and a stalemate over partisan politics were possible outcomes with a divided government and a passionately aroused, divided population at home.
But while some said that gridlock and a failure by the Republicans to compromise with Democrats in solving problems would lead to a backlash in two years, others said the opposite -- that failure to push vehemently enough on Republican promises like repealing the health care overhaul would be enough to replenish voter anger and lead to a second wave of change.
''What's crucial is that they listen,'' said Annyce Stone, a college professor and Republican who was working on her laptop at a downtown coffee shop. ''If they don't listen, I think they'll be voted out.''
Others said that divided government might not be so bad. Amy Hamrick, 34, a Democrat and the owner of Kind Coffee, a roaster and coffee house on Estes Park's main street, said history made her optimistic about the next two years.
''In the Clinton and Reagan eras, when the power balanced out a little bit, they actually ended up figuring more stuff out,'' she said.
Mixed with all that, especially for Democrats who saw the party take its worst drubbing in decades, was an uncertainty about what the party should be, and deep unhappiness among some Democrats about Mr. Obama.
''I'll probably vote for him again in two years, but I'll hold my nose while I do it,'' said Robert Obele, 65, a Democrat who works in handyman services. ''I think he's been too wishy-washy. Somebody needs to slap him and say it its time to shape up and get tough.''
Would he support a challenge to Mr. Obama from within the Democratic Party for the presidential nomination?
''Depending on who it might be,'' Mr. Obele said, ''I could do that.''
Ms. Hamrick at Kind Coffee agreed.
''The party should look for the strongest candidate,'' she said. ''Challenge is good. It makes you better. It's like Kind Coffee and Starbucks, same thing in business, competition makes you check everything that you do.''
In a resort town like Estes Park, perched at the eastern entrance to Rocky Mountain National Park and heavily dependent on tourism, thinking hard about the future is perhaps a geographic predilection: there is always a busy season to plan for, or a slow one to muddle through. A kind of endemic optimism might be part of that mix as well, in a local economy where the hope of ever more tourists arriving over the horizon is deeply ingrained.
Larimer County's economy, while hurt by the recession, also held up better than many other corners of Colorado, not to mention the nation.
But personal optimism does not necessarily mean a rosy outlook about the nation and its path ahead. Lyle Jensen, 74, a retired mechanical engineer and a Republican, said he had become concerned about the future for his grandchildren, mainly because of the debt loads he fears they will be burdened with. So he is starting a new business, selling a line of healthy chocolate products, as a way to help them find their way into the unwritten future.
''I think my grandkids are going to need it,'' he said.
A friend of Mr. Jensen's sitting across the table from him having coffee, Bob Berman, said the problem was not at all with the country's direction, but with the pace of change.
''The direction we're going in is good; I'd like to see it move faster,'' said Mr. Berman, 65, an unaffiliated voter who said he mostly votes for Democrats and still supported Mr. Obama.
Some people said they were more or less just crossing their fingers in thinking about the future. Hal and Lou French, 82 and 85, both voted straight Republican and both expressed bright hopes that Republicans in Congress would make good on promises, especially on the health care repeal.
And if they do not?
''We'll probably just vote for them again,'' Ms. French said with a shrug.
Milton Sebelik, 84, and his sister, Louise Johnson, 90, no longer even talk about politics.
Mr. Sebelik, a retired postal worker and a Democrat, said he was counting on Mr. Obama to hold back the Republicans in Congress. ''I think Obama is going to have to give in to some of their demands, but he will exercise his veto pen,'' Mr. Sebelik said.
Ms. Johnson, by contrast, fully expects the Republicans to roll back the programs associated with Mr. Obama's first two years. Looking forward to the next election, she favors Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor who sought the Republican Party's nomination for president in 2008.
''I try not to get in arguments with him,'' Ms. Johnson said, glancing over at her brother, standing next to her at Veterans Day celebration at the Estes Park Senior Center. ''Only once in a while, once in a while.''
For all their differences, though, Mr. Sebelik and Ms. Johnson both said that what unites them, love of country, is stronger than politics. They both served in the military in World War II, Ms. Johnson in the Navy, Mr. Sebelik in the Army. ''We have our differences, but it's America all the way, for both of us,'' Mr. Sebelik said.
Crossroads County: Articles in this series have examined the political issues, voters and stakes in Larimer County, Colo., one swing county in a crucial state in this year's midterm Congressional elections.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DIVIDED SOME STAND: Louise Johnson, far left, and her brother, Milton Sebelik, disagree on politics but agree on something larger. Wendy Craddock, a Republican and a Tea Party supporter, looks forward to a repeal of Democratic initiatives.
 READY TO RESPOND: Lizzie Adams supports the president and sees the midterm elections as a call to participation. Below, downtown Estes Park, Colo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW STAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); HISTORY (64%); YOGA (53%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BENNET (78%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); BETSY MARKEY (58%); CORY GARDNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010



542 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Netanyahu Said to Agree to Push for West Bank Settlement Freeze

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel has agreed to push his cabinet to freeze most construction on settlements in the West Bank for 90 days to break an impasse in peace negotiations with the Palestinians, an official briefed on talks between the United States and Israel said Saturday evening.
In return, the Obama administration has offered Israel a package of security incentives and fighter jets worth $3 billion that would be contingent on the signing of a peace agreement, the official said. The United States would also block any moves in the United Nations Security Council that would try to shape a final peace agreement. 
The quid pro quo was hashed out by Mr. Netanyahu and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton in seven and a half hours of talks in New York on Thursday.
The partial freeze would not include East Jerusalem, which the Palestinians view as the future capital of a Palestinian state and where recent Israeli building set off a firestorm of criticism.
It was unclear whether the prime minister could win approval for the United States deal from his cabinet, which has been reluctant to freeze settlement construction. It was also unclear if the leaks of the details of the agreement, which were widely reported in Israeli newspapers on Saturday, were designed to put pressure on Mr. Netanyahu.
He convened an unusual meeting of the inner council of his cabinet in Jerusalem on Saturday night, and he will meet with the full cabinet on Sunday, according to an Israeli official.
If approved, the agreement could surmount a stubborn hurdle to talks between Israel and the Palestinians, which began with much fanfare in Washington in early September but soon ran aground after Israel's 10-month partial moratorium on settlement construction expired later that month.
It would also give President Obama a foreign policy victory after the Democrats' midterm election losses and a tough few days for him in Asia, in which he failed to win support on trade and international economic issues.
The stalled Middle East peace process had loomed as another setback. The Palestinians have refused to return to the bargaining table unless Israel extends the moratorium. And Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton have failed to sway Mr. Netanyahu, despite repeated public and private entreaties.
Last week, Mr. Obama and Mr. Netanyahu again traded barbed words after the Israeli authorities announced plans to build new Jewish housing in a contested part of East Jerusalem, while the prime minister was visiting the United States and Mr. Obama was traveling in Indonesia.
This proposed 90-day freeze would be nonrenewable: the United States would not ask for further extensions, the official with knowledge of the deliberations said.
The freeze would apply not only to new construction, but to building that began after the 10-month moratorium expired in September, the official said. That is a particularly delicate stipulation, given the large number of houses that have begun being built since then. The ban would apply to residential building; public structures like schools and community centers would be unaffected.
The logic behind a 90-day extension is that the two sides would aim for a swift agreement on the borders of a Palestinian state. That would make the long dispute over settlements irrelevant since it would be clear which housing blocks fell into Israel and which fell into a Palestinian state.
The security incentives offered by the administration, though generous, do not appear to go far beyond the support the United States typically offers Israel. For example, the United States has not agreed to endorse a long-term Israeli security presence in the Jordan River Valley, the official said.
The American pledge to block initiatives in the Security Council appears aimed at heading off efforts by the Palestinian Authority to seek international support for a unilateral declaration of statehood -- something it has considered in recent weeks as Israel has refused to reconsider a new building moratorium.
A spokesman for the Israeli Embassy in Washington, Jonathan Peled, declined to comment on the reports, as did Philip J. Crowley, the spokesman for the United States Department of State.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (92%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); APPROVALS (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (62%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (93%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); INDONESIA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010



543 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1572 words

HEADLINE: Who Will Stand Up to the Superrich?

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
IN the aftermath of the Great Democratic Shellacking of 2010, one election night subplot quickly receded into the footnotes: the drubbing received by very wealthy Americans, most of them Republican, who tried to buy Senate seats and governor's mansions. Americans don't hate rich people. They admire and often idolize success. But Californians took a hearty dislike to Meg Whitman, who sacrificed $143 million of her eBay fortune -- not to mention her undocumented former housekeeper -- to a gubernatorial race she lost by double digits. Connecticut voters K.O.'d the World Wrestling groin-kicker, Linda McMahon, and West Virginians did likewise to the limestone-and-steel magnate John Raese, the senatorial hopeful who told an interviewer without apparent irony, ''I made my money the old-fashioned way -- I inherited it.''
To my mind, these losers deserve a salute nonetheless. They all had run businesses that actually created jobs (Raese included). They all wanted to enter public service to give back to the country that allowed them to prosper. And by losing so decisively, they gave us a ray of hope in dark times. Their defeats reminded us that despite much recent evidence to the contrary the inmates don't always end up running the asylum of American politics. 
The wealthy Americans we should worry about instead are the ones who implicitly won the election -- those who take far more from America than they give back. They were not on the ballot, and most of them are not household names. Unlike Whitman and the other defeated self-financing candidates, they are all but certain to cash in on the Nov. 2 results. There's no one in Washington in either party with the fortitude to try to stop them from grabbing anything that's not nailed down.
The Americans I'm talking about are not just those shadowy anonymous corporate campaign contributors who flooded this campaign. No less triumphant were those individuals at the apex of the economic pyramid -- the superrich who have gotten spectacularly richer over the last four decades while their fellow citizens either treaded water or lost ground. The top 1 percent of American earners took in 23.5 percent of the nation's pretax income in 2007 -- up from less than 9 percent in 1976. During the boom years of 2002 to 2007, that top 1 percent's pretax income increased an extraordinary 10 percent every year. But the boom proved an exclusive affair: in that same period, the median income for non-elderly American households went down and the poverty rate rose.
It's the very top earners, not your garden variety, entrepreneurial multimillionaires, who will be by far the biggest beneficiaries if there's an extension of the expiring Bush-era tax cuts for income over $200,000 a year (for individuals) and $250,000 (for couples). The resurgent G.O.P. has vowed to fight to the end to award this bonanza, but that may hardly be necessary given the timid opposition of President Obama and the lame-duck Democratic Congress.
On last Sunday's ''60 Minutes,'' Obama was already wobbling toward another ''compromise'' in which he does most of the compromising. It's a measure of how far he's off his game now that a leader who once had the audacity to speak at length on the red-hot subject of race doesn't even make the most forceful case for his own long-held position on an issue where most Americans still agree with him. (Only 40 percent of those in the Nov. 2 exit poll approved of an extension of all Bush tax cuts.) The president's argument against extending the cuts for the wealthiest has now been reduced to the dry accounting of what the cost would add to the federal deficit. As he put it to CBS's Steve Kroft, ''the question is -- can we afford to borrow $700 billion?''
That's a good question, all right, but it's not the question. The bigger issue is whether the country can afford the systemic damage being done by the ever-growing income inequality between the wealthiest Americans and everyone else, whether poor, middle class or even rich. That burden is inflicted not just on the debt but on the very idea of America -- our Horatio Alger faith in social mobility over plutocracy, our belief that our brand of can-do capitalism brings about innovation and growth, and our fundamental sense of fairness. Incredibly, the top 1 percent of Americans now have tax rates a third lower than the same top percentile had in 1970.
''How can hedge-fund managers who are pulling down billions sometimes pay a lower tax rate than do their secretaries?'' ask the political scientists Jacob S. Hacker (of Yale) and Paul Pierson (University of California, Berkeley) in their deservedly lauded new book, ''Winner-Take-All Politics.'' If you want to cry real tears about the American dream -- as opposed to the self-canonizing tears of John Boehner -- read this book and weep. The authors' answer to that question and others amounts to a devastating indictment of both parties.
Their ample empirical evidence, some of which I'm citing here, proves that America's ever-widening income inequality was not an inevitable by-product of the modern megacorporation, or of globalization, or of the advent of the new tech-driven economy, or of a growing education gap. (Yes, the very rich often have fancy degrees, but so do those in many income levels below them.) Inequality is instead the result of specific policies, including tax policies, championed by Washington Democrats and Republicans alike as they conducted a bidding war for high-rolling donors in election after election.
The book deflates much of the conventional wisdom. Hacker and Pierson date the dawn of the collusion between the political system and the superrich not to the Reagan revolution, but to the preceding Carter presidency and its Democratic Congress. They also write that contrary to the popular perception, America's superhigh earners are not mostly ''superstars and celebrities in the arts, entertainment and sports'' or the stars of law, medicine and real estate. They are instead corporate executives and managers -- increasingly (and less surprisingly) financial company executives and managers, including those who escaped with outrageous fortunes as their companies imploded during the housing bubble.
The G.O.P.'s arguments for extending the Bush tax cuts to this crowd, usually wrapped in laughably hypocritical whining about ''class warfare,'' are easily batted down. The most constant refrain is that small-business owners who file in this bracket would be hit so hard they could no longer hire new employees. But the Tax Policy Center found in 2008, when checking out similar campaign claims by ''Joe the Plumber,'' that only 2 percent of all Americans reporting small-business income, regardless of tax bracket, would see tax increases if Obama fulfilled his pledge to let the Bush tax cuts lapse for the top earners. The economist Dean Baker calculated that the yearly tax increase at the lower end of that bracket, for those with earnings between $200,000 and $500,000, would amount to $700 -- which ''isn't enough to hire anyone.''
Those in the higher reaches aren't investing in creating new jobs even now, when the full Bush tax cuts remain in effect, so why would extending them change that equation? American companies seem intent on sitting on trillions in cash until the economy reboots. Meanwhile, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office ranks the extension of any Bush tax cuts, let alone those to the wealthiest Americans, as the least effective of 11 possible policy options for increasing employment.
Nor are the superrich helping to further the traditional American business culture that inspires and encourages those with big ideas and drive to believe they can climb to the top. Robert Frank, the writer who chronicled the superrich in the book ''Richistan,'' recently analyzed the new Forbes list of the 400 richest Americans for The Wall Street Journal and found a ''hardening of the plutocracy'' and scant mobility. Only 16 of the 400 were newcomers -- as opposed to an average of 40 to 50 in recent years -- and they tended to be in industries like coal, natural gas, chemicals and casinos rather than forward-looking businesses involving the Green Economy, tech or biotechnology. This is ''not exactly the formula for America's vaunted entrepreneurial wealth machine,'' Frank wrote.
As ''Winner-Take-All Politics'' documents, America has been busy ''building a bridge to the 19th century'' -- that is, to a new Gilded Age. To dislodge the country from this stagnant rut will require all kinds of effort from Americans in and out of politics. That includes some patriotic selflessness from those at the very top who still might emulate Warren Buffett and the few others in the Forbes 400 who dare say publicly that it's not in America's best interests to stack the tax and regulatory decks in their favor.
Many of the countless tasks that need to be addressed to start rebuilding an equitable America are formidable, but surely few, if any, are easier than eliminating a tax break that was destined to expire anyway and that most Americans want to see expire. Two years ago, Obama campaigned on this issue far more strenuously than he did on, say, reforming health care. Now he and what remains of his Congressional caucus are poised to retreat from even this clear-cut battle. You know things are grim when you start wishing that the president might summon his inner Linda McMahon.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); JOB CREATION (67%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); POVERTY RATES (60%)

PERSON: MARGARET C WHITMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010



544 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: A Dispute in Nicaragua Reopens Old Wounds

BYLINE: By BLAKE SCHMIDT

 BODY:
MANAGUA, Nicaragua -- President Daniel Ortega's push to stay in power using a contested interpretation of the Constitution has reignited the fury of former contras who fought his Sandinista government in the 1980s, with one former rebel taking up arms in the mountains and another vowing to oust him at the polls.
But in the absence of a post-cold-war sponsor, Nicaragua's opposition is struggling to coordinate an electoral offensive against Mr. Ortega, whose approval ratings rose to 45 percent last month with the help of his Venezuelan-financed response to flooding that killed scores of people and forced thousands to flee their homes.
Mr. Ortega's critics contend that he is disregarding the Constitution and turning his role as the largest Central American beneficiary of Venezuela's leftist president, Hugo Chavez, into political capital for next year's vote in November. 
''Chavez is propping up Ortega's dictatorship,'' said Fabio Gadea, a presidential contender who led a contra radio station from exile in Costa Rica in the 1980s. He argued that the United States had ''lost vigor'' in its own backyard and done little, beyond cutting $62 million in aid, to stave off Mr. Ortega's advances.
''Times have changed,'' Mr. Gadea added. ''The ones who must defend democracy are us, the Nicaraguans.''
Convinced that the election will not be fair, another former contra has gone further, taking up arms in the mountains near the Honduran border.
''The government keeps violating the Constitution as much as it wants,'' Jose Garmendia, also known as Comandante Yahob, recently told a local newspaper. Though his financial backing is limited to meager donations from a mayor in the north, Mr. Garmendia said he would hunker down until support grew, arguing that ''only a rebellion can save us from the abuses of Daniel Ortega.''
Nicaragua has spent the past two decades trying to heal from the civil war that tore the country apart and left 35,000 people dead. Mr. Ortega, elected in 2006 with a former contra as his running mate, has distributed roofing materials, pensions and property titles to families of contras who turned in weapons as part of a 1987 peace accord.
While a reprise of the contra war is unlikely, Mr. Ortega's re-election push is reopening old wounds and, critics contend, sending Nicaraguan democracy into a tailspin. Some opponents vow to boycott next year's vote unless Mr. Ortega allows for an overhaul of the electoral council that oversaw a 2008 mayoral election in which fraud allegations set off weeks of violence.
The political tension deepened when Mr. Ortega hinted that he would run for president again, despite a constitutional ban against consecutive terms or holding office more than twice.
''The right to re-election should be for all,'' he told supporters last year on the 30th anniversary of the Sandinista revolution. ''And the people should decide whom to award and whom to punish.''
Lacking the votes in Congress to amend the Constitution, Mr. Ortega turned to the Supreme Court. Six judges from the governing Sandinista party ruled that the constitutional ban did not apply to Mr. Ortega, but the ruling immediately caused an uproar because it was made when no opposition judges were present.
Opponents in Congress dug in, refusing to vote on replacements for important posts, including Supreme Court judges and electoral magistrates. Mr. Ortega parried, issuing a decree in January that extended the officials' terms.
Two Sandinista Supreme Court judges put the decree to the test in April, refusing to hand in their gavels and leading a boisterous group of Sandinista supporters into the court. In a forceful takeover, the shouting crowd scared off opposition judges, who have since boycotted sessions.
Mr. Ortega then had the Constitution reprinted in September to include an old -- and, some argue, expired -- clause that sanctioned the extensions. Sandinista judges have also replaced the Supreme Court president with one of their own, rounding out Mr. Ortega's control of the court.
Mr. Ortega frequently says there is a plot to overthrow him, especially since his ally, President Manuel Zelaya of Honduras, was ousted last year in a coup. Mr. Ortega said that by allowing a post-coup government in Honduras, the United States has encouraged plotters against leftist Latin American governments, including Mr. Garmendia, whom he called a ''delinquent in the mountains.''
''There isn't the least possibility of a coup because of the nature of our armed forces,'' Mr. Ortega said in a recent address, flanked by leaders of the military and the police. ''The army and police were born with the revolution and formed by it.''
Meanwhile, opposition candidates are competing to show that the United States is supporting them, despite Washington's reluctance to engage in politics in the country that produced the Iran-contra affair. The American ambassador here, Robert J. Callahan, has cut back on public critiques of the political situation after Ortega supporters chased him from a university fair last year by hurling fireworks and attacked the embassy with rocks.
Nonetheless, a spokesman for Arnoldo Aleman, a former president whose 20-year sentence on corruption charges was overturned last year, recently claimed that the United States was backing his new bid for office, while Mr. Gadea said an invitation to a recent dinner with embassy officials was an American stamp of approval on his campaign.
''The U.S. supports my candidacy,'' Mr. Gadea said in a recent interview at the home of an embassy official. ''My discourse is in line with liberal thought and moral values that form the concept of American politics.''
Ambassador Callahan said the United States had not taken sides in the election. He announced Friday that Nicaragua was again eligible for an American aid program canceled in 2008 on electoral concerns.
The two candidates could keep the opposition divided. Though he and Mr. Aleman happen to be in-laws, Mr. Gadea broke from Mr. Aleman's Liberal Constitutionalist Party to distance himself from Mr. Aleman, who was ranked among the world's most corrupt leaders in 2004 by Transparency International.
Mr. Ortega, who was president in the 1980s but lost an election in 1990 as Soviet support waned, has received at least $1.4 billion from Mr. Chavez in oil, aid and investment to fuel his fight against poverty and illiteracy, figures from the central bank show.
The money has expanded Mr. Ortega's political base and given him more of a stake in the economy through a network of companies that blur the lines between his Sandinista party, the state and the private sector, said Francisco Lainez, who founded Nicaragua's central bank.
''The people felt a great change with Daniel's presidency,'' said a senior Sandinista official, Nelson Artola. ''We're looking after that change, protecting it.''
Mr. Artola's work as director of the government's reconciliation plan and poverty relief fund has helped appease former contras. He also leads the Sandinistas' carrot-and-stick approach to building political support for Mr. Ortega's re-election, distributing Venezuelan aid and government funds to mayors who publicly back Mr. Ortega. Less compliant mayors have been ousted, with the police dragging one from his office in June after an eight-day standoff.
Mr. Gadea said he would refuse to include any Sandinistas in his government if elected. Vice President Jaime Morales Carazo said in an interview that the re-election of Mr. Ortega could lead to dictatorship or conflict, adding that he would step down if Mr. Ortega won again. Mr. Morales, a former negotiator for the contra rebels, joined Mr. Ortega's 2006 campaign to create a reconciliation government.
''All calculations pointed in his favor then,'' Mr. Morales said. ''Now there's even more certainty Ortega will win.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Critics of President Daniel Ortega of Nicaragua say a contested interpretation of the Constitution may keep him in office past 2011. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ESTEBAN FELIX/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); COLD WAR (77%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); MAYORS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NICARAGUA (99%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); COSTA RICA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONDURAS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010



545 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: LETTERS; The New Momism

 BODY:
Momism may be a ''clever strategy in a season of populist rage,'' as quoted in the Judith Warner's column. I get that. Michelle Obama and Sarah Palin, both overtly proud of being mothers and often using that status for political gain, have even more in common than the article implied. They both live with their children's fathers, have adequate income, college education, power and advantage. The status they have achieved, regardless of how, is their common denominator. But at a time when America's poor mothers are struggling to feed, educate and keep their children safe, sometimes without the support of a partner, being a mom elicits a whole different meaning for millions of women the article never mentions. Being a grizzly for them means fighting with the ''welfare folks'' who may have inadvertently canceled their food stamps; standing up to an absentee landlord when the heater breaks in the middle of winter; or figuring out how to manage a lottery system so her kid can get into the one decent magnet school in her city. 
I have learned firsthand about real mother bears. I work in work-force development with women absolutely desperate to earn a decent living. They face fewer prospects in the current economy despite the skill sets and intense motivation they develop at my school. In this election cycle, I would have loved to have heard those privileged mama bears reach out and advocate for the women I see every day who need job creation, small-business bailouts, fewer restrictions on welfare benefits, increased minimum wage and longer unemployment compensation. Just being a mom in no way helps you put another's shoes on. It takes a major reprioritizing of this nation's values, and that will take more than just a few moms running for office.
LINDA HAHN Philadelphia
As a woman who ran for and was elected to office last year (Pepper Pike City Council, Ohio), and who is also a parent of three children under 18, no one knows more than I do about these achievements. But the manipulation of motherhood status for political gain is abhorrent. I didn't have children so I could use them to enhance a public-service career. And I don't vote for those who do.
JILL MILLER ZIMON Pepper Pike, Ohio

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); WOMEN (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (75%); BAILOUTS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); MAGNET SCHOOLS (71%); LABOR FORCE (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); CITIES (66%); MINIMUM WAGE (64%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (72%); MICHELLE OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010



546 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1502 words

HEADLINE: Where Will the G.O.P. Go Digging?

BYLINE: By BRIAN FRIEL; THE OVERSIGHT EXPERTS CONSULTED WERE: JOEL ABERBACH, STEVEN AFTERGOOD, RYAN ALEXANDER, DANIELLE BRIAN, DAN DONOVAN, LINDA L. FOWLER, PHILIP G. JOYCE, DONALD F. KETTL, DAVID MARIN, CONRAD MARTIN, PATRICIA G. McGINNIS, DAVID OSBORNE, ANDREW RUDALEVIGE, GERRY SIKORSKI.

 BODY:
WITH the Republican takeover of the House, Representative Darrell Issa of California will become the chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, Capitol Hill's top watchdog panel. As the lead Republican on the panel the last two years, Mr. Issa, a hard-charging, quick-witted former car-alarm company owner, has been the Obama administration's most aggressive antagonist on spending under the $787 billion economic stimulus package. Starting in January, armed with the power to call hearings and issue subpoenas, he will play lead conductor to the new majority's other committee chairmen in investigating what he says is a ''long list'' of oversight targets.
Below, I've taken an educated guess as to nine of the issues that Mr. Issa and his colleagues are most likely to look into. While some of those investigations are appropriate, others will be seen as attempts to rack up headlines that could embarrass the Obama administration and the Democratic Party. 
And no matter which party is in control of the House, there are always questions about whether the oversight panel and other committees aren't missing issues crying out for additional scrutiny. So I conducted an informal poll of 14 good-government watchdogs -- veterans of the oversight process, former public officials and academics -- to propose an alternative set of targets that have been largely ignored by both parties. A steady focus on these issues could reap benefits for taxpayers that would last well beyond the next news cycle.
INVESTIGATIONS WE CAN EXPECT
White House job offers. The question is whether the administration offered plum positions to get two Senate primary challengers -- Joe Sestak in Pennsylvania and Andrew Romanoff in Colorado -- to drop their bids against Democratic incumbents. While the White House insists and most legal experts agree that no law was broken, Mr. Issa has said that that Americans could have ''confidence in the legitimacy of the conclusions drawn'' by the administration in the cases only if they have access to all related documents.
''Friends of Angelo.'' Several prominent Democrats, including two senators, Kent Conrad of North Dakota and Chris Dodd of Connecticut (who chose not to run for re-election this month), were found to have received sweetheart mortgage rates from Countrywide Financial and its former chief executive, Angelo Mozilo. While the Senate Ethics Committee found ''no substantial credible evidence'' that the two senators had violated ethics rules, Mr. Issa says more investigation is warranted into whether other government officials got such deals.
Acorn. The liberal nonprofit group dissolved last year in the glare of conservative scrutiny, but some Republicans want an investigation into Acorn's federal financing for its housing programs, which amounted to at least $53 million since 1994.
New Black Panthers. Last year the Justice Department convened and then dropped an investigation into whether members of the New Black Panther Party intimidated voters at a polling place in Philadelphia in 2008. Many conservatives feel the case was concluded prematurely and would like the Justice Department to take it up again.
Climate science. Conservatives who question the consensus that climate change is manmade want to use various committees' oversight powers to challenge its scientific underpinnings, many of which were reached by federally financed researchers. Mr. Issa has focused on the so-called Climategate scandal involving alleged manipulation of data by British scientists: ''For me, settled science starts out with settled raw data,'' Mr. Issa said. ''If the raw data's in doubt, then the idea that we have settled science doesn't exist. I want settled science.''
BP oil-spill response. Republicans may want to emphasize the White House's missteps in dealing with the Gulf oil spill in April. In July, Mr. Issa said that the administration's ''preoccupation with public relations'' might have hindered local officials' efforts to deal with the disaster.
Economic stimulus. Representative Issa created a Web site where people can post pictures of road signs touting projects financed by the $787 billion economic stimulus package; he says the signs are little more than expensive propaganda, costing taxpayers $192 million. Mr. Issa will no doubt find additional creative ways to raise doubts about the administration's response to the Great Recession, which he says has wasted money on swimming pools, zoos and golf courses.
White House Political Affairs Office. Mr. Issa has pushed for information about a special counsel investigation into whether the Office of Political Affairs in the Bush and Obama White Houses violated a ban on the use of federal resources for politicking. In particular, he questions whether the Obama administration has sent federal officials on thinly disguised campaign trips to help elect politicians -- a charge Democrats made against the Bush White House as well.
Czars. Mr. Issa wants to give special scrutiny to unconfirmed presidential advisers including Elizabeth Warren, who is setting up the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and Carol Browner, who oversees environmental policy. Such czars are a sign of the ''arrogance of government,'' Mr. Issa says, because their appointments avoid Congress's constitutional advise-and-consent role.
INVESTIGATIONS WE COULD REALLY USE
Federal contracts. Agencies paid private contractors at least $539 billion in fiscal 2009, much of it with little or no competition or performance evaluation. An additional $660 billion-plus in grants to states, local governments and nonprofits has undergone no systemic Congressional review. The committee should look into possible waste and whether contracting rules were followed.
The Civil Service. As with contractors, Congress has not systemically reviewed the performance and efficiency of the government's 1.8 million-member work force.
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. At $136 billion so far, the federal takeover of the quasi-private housing corporations is the most expensive component of the government's response to the economic crisis. Figuring out the government's role in the housing market going forward is essential after decades of Congressional neglect.
Defense spending. Congress has been loath to dig too deeply into waste in the Pentagon budget, in part because every state and Congressional district benefits from the spending. But 8 of the 31 agencies on the Government Accountability Office high-risk list of programs ''vulnerable to fraud, waste, abuse and mismanagement'' are run out of the Defense Department. Certainly Congress should scrutinize them.
Food safety. A series of recalls, including that of half a billion eggs last summer in a salmonella outbreak, has highlighted the strains on the Food and Drug Administration. Congress should investigate whether it needs to be reformed or its duties taken up by other agencies.
Transparency. The government keeps too much information secret, operating a costly system of classification. Much of the information it does make public is impossible for most citizens to comprehend. Republicans could push agencies to declassify more information more quickly and draft legislation to compel the bureaucracy to release data in more usable formats.
Veterans health. Since the exposure of terrible conditions at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in 2007, Congress has dumped billions into the veterans health system. But there has been little follow-up to examine the quality of care and the cost-effectiveness of efforts by the Department of Veterans Affairs and other agencies.
Loan guarantees. Congress has backed more than $100 billion in loans in energy-related private projects. Because the guarantees don't cost much up front, they tend to get little scrutiny. But the taxpayers are on the hook for any projects that go bust, and Congress should scrutinize them more carefully to determine the risk of failure and whether the projects truly deserve our backing.
Agency performance. Do taxpayers get what they pay for? In 1993, Congress passed the Government Performance and Results Act, requiring federal agencies to report each year on how well they were meeting goals, like whether the Internal Revenue Service is collecting all taxes due or whether the Education Department is improving student achievement. Agencies still produce those reports, but everyone involved knows that nobody really reads them. Oversight committees should start using them the way shareholders use companies' annual reports: to see if their investments are paying off.
Congress itself. Committees in general do little sustained oversight, instead chasing headlines. And they operate with significant overlap -- more than 100 committees and subcommittees oversee the Homeland Security Department, for example. The committees offer few channels for public input and participation. As one expert says, ''I'd like to see Congress take a hard look at how it does oversight before it does any more of it.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY JEANNE VERDOUX) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SUBPOENAS (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ETHICS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); EVIDENCE (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%); EMPLOYMENT (50%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%)

PERSON: DARRELL E ISSA (90%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); JOE SESTAK (58%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); KENT CONRAD (58%); ANGELO R MOZILO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010



547 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Obama Tells Russian President Arms Treaty Will Be a Priority

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
YOKOHAMA, Japan -- President Obama ended a 10-day diplomatic and economic journey through Asia on a personal note Sunday, visiting a colossal copper Buddha that he had seen as a 6-year-old boy, then headed for Washington to confront the lame-duck Congress on Monday. He told President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia here that his ''top priority'' on foreign policy for the Congressional session is ratification of their new arms control treaty, which is stalled in the Senate.
The president's breakfast session with Mr. Medvedev, on the sidelines of a meeting of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, was his final ''bilateral,'' or one-on-one, meeting with a foreign leader during his Asia tour. Mr. Obama is concerned that the friendlier relationship he is trying to forge with Russia will falter if the Senate does not ratify the arms control treaty, known as New Start, that the two men signed in April. The results of the midterm elections, in which Republicans gained control of the House and increased their numbers in the Senate, make his concern all the more urgent. 
The president also told the Russian leader that he is committed to lifting Cold War-era trade restrictions, which would allow Russia to join the World Trade Organization. During a brief appearance before reporters, the two leaders' public comments took on a chummy tone -- in stark contrast to the pointed exchanges Mr. Obama had with President Hu Jintao of China at the G-20 conference in Seoul, South Korea, last week.
In Seoul, Mr. Obama bluntly accused China of undervaluing its currency, and offered the customary pleasantries -- ''It is wonderful to see you again'' -- when he and Mr. Hu greeted one another before the cameras. But his language with Mr. Medvedev here in Yokohama was far more effusive. He called the Russian leader ''my friend Dmitri,'' and said Russia has been ''an excellent partner.'' Mr. Medvedev, returning the favor, said the meeting had been ''very pleasant for me.'' He added, ''We understand each other very well.''
Senior American officials said afterward that the private meeting touched on a range of issues, from Afghanistan to human rights. Mr. Obama told Mr. Medvedev that he was ''very pleased'' with the Russian leader's ''strong'' statement condemning the beating of a journalist in Moscow. The two leaders will meet again next week at the NATO summit meeting in Lisbon, and Mr. Obama told Mr. Medvedev that he wants to use that session to talk further about Afghanistan and missile defense.
The Asia Pacific leaders' gathering produced little in the way of tangible accomplishments. The leaders said they had made progress toward a regional trade pact encompassing Pacific nations, but conceded that more work must be done to translate the agreement from an ''aspirational to a concrete vision.'' Mr. Obama, who has made evening out trade imbalances and doubling American exports a centerpiece of his economic agenda, is hoping this year's meeting in Yokohama will lay the groundwork for next year, when the forum meets in the state where he was born, Hawaii.
After leaving Yokohama, the president flew by helicopter to Kamakura, the site of Kamakura Daibutsu, or ''Great Buddha of Kamakura.'' The giant statue, which experts believe dates to 1252, has 656 coils of hair and weighs 121 tons. While there, Mr. Obama ate a green tea ice cream bar -- the same kind he had here as a child -- and left with a bag of gifts, including bracelets for his daughters, Malia and Sasha.
''It is wonderful to return to this great treasure of Japanese culture,'' he wrote in the guest book. ''Its beauty has stayed with me for many years.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); COLD WAR (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (70%); WRITERS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HU JINTAO (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (86%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%) KANTO, JAPAN (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); ASIA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); CHINA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010



548 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; REPORTER'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Heartfelt Moments on an Up-and-Down Global Trip

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
YOKOHAMA, Japan -- It was billed as a diplomatic and economic tour of Asia, but President Obama will have literally circled the globe by the time he returns to Washington on Sunday evening.
He left the White House two Fridays ago, heading east to Mumbai, India, then continued to New Delhi; Jakarta, Indonesia; Seoul, South Korea; and Yokohama, with plans for Air Force One to refuel in Alaska on the way home. It was a grueling 10-day excursion, Mr. Obama's longest overseas journey as president.
He won hearts in India with his forthright answers to college students and awkward dance moves with disadvantaged children, and in Indonesia, where his personal biography resonated. In both countries, he got a boost from his popular wife, Michelle. 
And he took knocks, especially in Seoul, where he could not seem to shake the word ''failure'' -- as in, failure to bring home a promised trade pact with South Korea.
Yet amid the president's diplomatic highs and lows, there were personal moments, insignificant in the grand scheme of international relations, yet revealing just the same. Here are three:
''Namaste,'' Mr. Obama said as he walked into a classroom at Holy Name High School on a hot Sunday morning in Mumbai.
The school was also the scene of Mr. Obama's much-publicized dancing. But before he got his groove on, the president did something that appealed to his wonkish side: he toured student presentations on the importance of wind and solar energy, rain-water harvesting and a model ''eco-village'' with a windmill. Standing before the diorama, he drew his hands together, as if in prayer, and greeted the children with a slight bow.
The expo was heavy with warnings about the destruction of the planet. A cardboard sea was shown swallowing up a blue globe, with the label ''Sinking Earth.'' Oversize cigarettes were bound and wired, marked ''RDX of Cancer,'' apparently a reference to an explosive. The children had clearly prepared, but there was something they did not know about the president: he is an occasional smoker.
''Today,'' a teenage boy said earnestly, ''about 1.3 billion people all over the world smoke. And when a person smokes he exhales harmful pollutants into the air. And these pollutants add to the gases, and they also harm the smoker.'' If that continued, the boy said, the world would ''look like this -- black burnt carbon earth.'' He pointed to a papier-mache rock with a crying face.
''Hmmm,'' Mr. Obama said. ''You don't want to live on that.''
Childhood Memories
Mr. Obama was so focused on India, aides say, that he barely had time to think about his next stop, Indonesia, where he had spent four years as a boy. But aboard Air Force One from New Delhi to Jakarta, he began thinking about the speech he was to deliver, and his childhood memories came flooding back.
''I think it really hit him: 'I'm going back to Jakarta as president,' '' said Ben Rhodes, a top foreign policy adviser. ''That's a powerful thing.''
Mr. Rhodes ordinarily writes Mr. Obama's speeches when the president is overseas, but Mr. Obama wanted a big hand in this one. So he began jotting notes on Air Force One stationery about the sights and sounds of his childhood: the street vendors hawking skewered beef and spicy meatballs, the bicycle rickshaws on unpaved roads, the mango tree in front of the house where he lived with his mother and stepfather. He gave Mr. Rhodes the notes, in his left-handed curlicue scrawl. The adviser could barely read them.
At the state dinner in his honor that night. Mr. Obama -- after an elaborate arrival ceremony, a business meeting with the Indonesian president and a joint news conference -- struggled to stay awake during the toasts. When the meal was over, he retired to his room at the Shangri-La Hotel and began writing once again.
Presidential trips are always fraught with logistical challenges, but the Indonesia visit was more complex than most. A cloud of volcanic ash was headed toward Jakarta, and most of the reporters on the trip were going to have to leave early -- before Mr. Obama delivered the speech. Mr. Rhodes, aware of the time crunch, had promised an advance copy as soon as the president put his pen down. It arrived by e-mail, at 12:30 a.m.
Weary Band Soldiers On
By the time Mr. Obama arrived in this port city, pretty much everyone in his entourage, weary reporters included, was cranky and ready to go home. His national security adviser, Thomas E. Donilon, opened a news briefing on Saturday afternoon by teasing that the White House had decided to add three or four more stops. But with a string of ''bilats'' -- diplomatic jargon for bilateral, or one-on-one, meetings between world leaders -- facing the president at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, Mr. Obama and his irritable press pool had little choice but to soldier on.
Such sessions follow a well-worn format. First comes the ''pool spray,'' where the two leaders exchange pleasantries before the cameras. Mr. Obama's meeting with Prime Minister Julia Gillard of Australia -- their first face-to-face encounter -- on Saturday began typically enough. The pool crammed into a small room, and Mr. Obama opened by declaring that ''the United States does not have a closer or better ally than Australia.'' Ms. Gillard returned the favor, proclaiming the United States and her country ''great mates.''
As aides to the leaders ushered the reporters out, a voice piped up from the back, ''Thank you, Mr. President!'' Mr. Obama seemed puzzled; someone told him it was an Australian. ''I knew it must have been an Australian,'' Mr. Obama replied, ''because my folks never say thank you.''
With that, the American press corps broke out in a unified show of exaggerated good manners: ''Thaaaannk you, Mr. President.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama with Prime Minister Naoto Kan of Japan and his wife, Nobuko, at the Asian-Pacific Economic Consortium forum in Yokohama, Japan, on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); SMOKING (85%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); DANCE EDUCATION (75%); AIR POLLUTANTS (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (69%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (59%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%); SOLAR ENERGY (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); NAOTO KAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); MUMBAI, INDIA (88%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (72%) KANTO, JAPAN (90%) INDIA (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); JAPAN (94%); INDONESIA (93%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010



549 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Great Expectations for E-Readers

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN

 BODY:
This could be the holiday season that American shoppers and e-readers are properly introduced.
E-readers will be widely available at stores like Target, Best Buy and Wal-Mart, the nation's largest retailer, and offered at prices that make sense for Christmas gifts -- less than $150.
Publishers and booksellers are expecting that instead of giving your mother a new Nicholas Sparks novel or your father a David Baldacci thriller in the hardcovers that traditionally fly off the shelves and into wrapping paper at this time of year, you might elect to convert them to e-reading.
''This is the tipping-point season for e-readers, there's no question,'' said Peter Hildick-Smith, president of the Codex Group, a book market research company. ''A lot more books are going to be sold in e-book format. It also means that a lot fewer people are going to be shopping in bookstores.'' 
Only a small slice of the book-buying public has bought an e-reader. About nine million devices are in circulation in the United States, according to Forrester Research.
That could jump in the coming weeks as consumers begin their holiday shopping, analysts predict. According to Forrester, at least 10.3 million e-readers could be in circulation by the end of the year.
And many of them will be bought for other people. Research from Simba Information, which provides data and advice to publishers, has shown that 1 in 5 of those who own a Kindle, Amazon's dedicated e-reader, received it as a gift.
In a recent Consumer Reports poll, 10 percent of the adults surveyed said they planned to give an e-reader as a gift this year, up from 4 percent in 2009.
That has corresponded with an increase in e-book sales. Two years ago, publishers said that sales of e-books constituted 1 percent of total book sales, but the figure is now closer to 9 or 10 percent.
A year ago, the Kindle was the dominant force in e-readers, and it remains so. But since then, the Nook from Barnes & Noble and the iPad from Apple have emerged as major competitors.
Last month, Barnes & Noble introduced a color version of the Nook for $249; there is also the Kobo, which is sold at Borders and Wal-Mart, and dozens of other e-readers, including a $100 tablet offered on Walgreens.com.
''Last year, when you think of the e-reader category, it was Nook and Kindle and Sony, but primarily Nook and Kindle if you look at the sales,'' said William Lynch, chief executive of Barnes & Noble. ''The difference this year is, there's a whole lot more choice.''
Maybe too much, said Michael Norris, a senior analyst for Simba Information. ''I don't think that the U.S. market can support 50 or 60 e-readers,'' he said, adding that he had lost count of all the current models.
James McQuivey, an analyst for Forrester Research, predicted that the glut of e-readers would confuse consumers.
''The range of choices is actually going to be perplexing,'' Mr. McQuivey said. ''And when that happens, consumers go back to the tried-and-true brands that have trust and good word of mouth.''
Weeks before the holiday season officially begins, the promotional blitz by retailers has already begun. On Amazon.com, a prominent homepage ad informs shoppers about the latest versions of the Kindle, for $139 and $189.
At the Borders Store at Columbus Circle in Manhattan, a bright red table near the front entrance features an assortment of readers, among them the Aluratek Libre e-reader ($100) and the Cruz Reader from Velocity Micro ($170).
Barnes & Noble has added sleek white ''boutiques'' in its stores, dedicated to showcasing the Nook. A Barnes & Noble in Greenwich Village has featured an enormous freestanding poster above the store entrance, with window displays full of brochures for the Nook Color and protective cases for the device, in hot pink, black and turquoise.
Inside the store on a recent evening, Jonathan Goodman, a writer in a gray trench coat, inspected a Nook e-reader and peppered a saleswoman with questions about price, book selection and service, in case the device broke down.
''There are just so many to choose from,'' Mr. Goodman said, sounding weary. ''But at this point, buying one feels inevitable.''
Amazon, which is planning a television advertising campaign throughout the holiday season, has expanded its reach to brick-and-mortar stores as well. During the holiday season last year, the Kindle was available only on Amazon.com; now it is sold at several national chains.
''Customers can walk into a Target, into a Best Buy, into a Staples, and touch and feel the screen for themselves,'' said Jay Marine, director of product management for the Kindle.
All the emphasis on e-readers could take away from sales of the hardcover book, a traditional holiday gift, and that is a prospect that has some booksellers worried.
''There's no question that this is the year of the gadget, and this year's gadget is the e-reader,'' said Geoffrey Jennings, the owner of Rainy Day Books, an independent bookstore in Fairway, Kan.
But Mr. Jennings said that sales of print books at his store were even stronger than last year, and that he believed the e-reading craze could be limited.
''A lot of people are going to get these things and they're going to go, 'This isn't like reading a book,''' he said. ''Then again, you'll have people who get them and then say, this is a fun gadget. But people get sick of gadgets after a while.''
Publishers insisted that they were not worried about the spread of e-readers. ''We'll see a lot of reading devices under the tree, which means we'll sell a lot of e-books,'' said Tim McCall, the director of online sales for Penguin Group USA.
Carolyn Reidy, president and chief executive of Simon & Schuster, said she expected e-book sales to shoot up on Christmas Day, when people open up their e-readers and immediately start buying books.
''The digital will be an added plus to what looks like we're starting to pull out of -- a very lackluster market,'' Ms. Reidy said. ''That will make for a very happy year after two Christmases that have not been very happy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jenna Mercandante demonstrates a Nook for her father, Dominic, in a Barnes & Noble store in Livingston, N.J. The company is pushing the Nook with special instore displays. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (89%); BOOK SALES (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (77%); BOOK PUBLISHING (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); CHRISTMAS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); TABLET COMPUTERS (64%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (86%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (86%); FORR (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (86%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (86%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010



550 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: A Power Again in Congress, Years After He Left It

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE and JENNIFER STEINHAUER; Kate Zernike reported from New York, and Jennifer Steinhauer from Baltimore. David M. Herszenhorn contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
BALTIMORE -- Dick Armey was drinking in the love.
Around him, the victors in the latest Republican revolution were offering their fealty.
Mike Lee, the newly elected senator from Utah, said the high point of his campaign had been seeing signs from Mr. Armey's group, FreedomWorks, supporting him around his state.
Tim Scott, a newly elected congressman from South Carolina, declared, ''We thank you, Dick Armey.'' And Renee Ellmers, a Congressional candidate from North Carolina who is leading as her race heads into a recount, simply gushed: ''Dick, you're wonderful.'' 
Of course, Representative John A. Boehner, an actual congressman, is expected to lead the Republican majority that will take office in January. But having helped build the wave that created that majority, Mr. Armey has been operating like something of a shadow majority leader -- eight years after he left Congress.
He invited incoming lawmakers who had been backed by the Tea Party to a two-day retreat in Baltimore last week, where he presented them with policy books and urged them not to submit to the ways of Washington. (He and wife, Susan, also spoke on how to avoid letting Congress ruin a marriage.)
After election day, Mr. Armey sent a memo to every Republican in Congress, outlining a strategy for repealing the health care legislation, and guidelines for legislation Republicans could offer in its place. He weighed in on leadership elections. He has even rehired his policy adviser from his Congressional days to help shape a legislative agenda. (''Putting the band back together,'' one of his aides put it.)
As new lawmakers, many of them with no political experience, come to Washington, many groups and would-be leaders of the Tea Party are vying to influence them. Several held competing freshman orientations over the weekend, in advance of the official party orientation this week.
But Mr. Armey is uniquely poised: he has the legislative experience that the Tea Party groups can't offer, but the Tea Party credibility that Republicans can't claim.
There is particular irony in Mr. Armey -- who has spent three decades in Washington, where he has become one of the city's most enduring insiders -- mentoring a movement that wants to hold on to its outsider ethos.
Elected to Congress in 1984, he was at the forefront the last time Republicans stormed the Capitol, helping write the Contract with America that set the party's agenda in 1994, and becoming majority leader, the second in command, the following year.
After leaving Congress in 2003, he became a lobbyist with DLA Piper and chairman of FreedomWorks, a well-connected advocacy group. His listing with a speakers' bureau notes that his fee starts at $20,000 and that he requires first-class travel for two.
Even those who call themselves friends say there is potential peril for the Tea Party in the relationship.
''A lot of people are trying to run to the front of this parade,'' said Vin Weber, a former House colleague of Mr. Armey's. ''But anything that begins to make them look like another Washington-based political organization is going to take a lot of wind out of their sails.''
Still, he said of Mr. Armey: ''He was never seduced by Washington establishment ways. That makes him attractive.''
Before Tea Party audiences, Mr. Armey pitches himself as anything but a creature of the Capitol. He never misses a chance to mention his humble beginnings in Cando (pronounced CAN-do), North Dakota, where he worked stringing utility wires after high school. (He credits an epiphany up a light pole on a below-freezing night for making him realize that he wanted to be the first in his family to go to college.) He describes his scorn for political arrogance by quoting an old song: ''Mr. Big Stuff.''
He has told Republicans that their victory is less a mandate than a second chance for them to show that they can govern well. It is something of a second chance for him, as well.
Mr. Armey aspired to be speaker of the House, but hurt his chances when he joined and then denied being involved in an attempted coup against Speaker Newt Gingrich. ''His credibility was shot with a lot of the members,'' said John Feehery, a former top aide to the Republican leadership.
An economist by training and an evangelist of the Austrian school of free market economics, Mr. Armey represents the libertarian wing of the Republican Party more than the social conservative wing. Since leaving Congress, he has complained that Republicans focused too much on social issues and not enough on fiscal conservatism.
The concern about spending that propelled the Tea Party wave has made his brand of conservatism popular again.
Republican aides to the current leadership grumbled about Mr. Armey's orientation for new members, publicly commending it but privately dismissing it as failing to attract many incoming lawmakers (about 25 showed up.)
''It seems like a good way to help them hit the ground running,'' said Michael Steel, a spokesman for Mr. Boehner, adding, ''It is one of several efforts to do so.''
There have also been some eyebrows raised at the idea of a former Republican Conference chairman and majority leader advising new House members to be skeptical about the leadership. But many Republicans credit Mr. Armey for recognizing the potential of the Tea Party movement early. ''If they hadn't had Armey working for them, it would have been a bloodbath for us,'' Mr. Feehery said.
Mr. Armey was among the first to endorse Tea Party candidates like Marco Rubio, the senator-elect from Florida. FreedomWorks, through its political arm, also helped organize Tea Party groups.
A man of many aphorisms, Mr. Armey likes to say, ''Washington is a city of young idealists and old cynics.'' In his telling, you lose your youthful idealism when you worry too much about fitting into the establishment. Speaking to the new lawmakers in Baltimore, he framed it as a stark choice: embrace the movement that got you elected or become ''hack politicians, going along to get along.''
He advised them to adopt what he calls an ''inside-outside'' strategy. The revolution of 1994, he argues, failed because Republicans had a game only inside Congress; the trick is to have lawmakers inside pushing legislation and grass-roots groups supporting the cause from outside.
As the new generation of Republicans lavished him with praise, Mr. Armey insisted it was he who was happiest to help: ''I've always felt so treated you were willing to let us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Former Representative Dick Armey is making his presence felt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS/GETTY IMAGES) (A1)
 In August, Dick Armey addressed the crowd at a Take America Back rally in Washington that was sponsored by FreedomWorks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); HEALTH CARE LAW (67%)

COMPANY: DLA PIPER LLP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FREEDOMWORKS (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (54%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: MIKE LEE (73%); RENEE ELLMERS (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); TIM SCOTT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010



551 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2647 words

HEADLINE: A School Held Together by Hope Fights for Life in Battered Haiti

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

 BODY:
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti -- In mid-October, when fresh-faced girls in starched uniforms skipped through the gates of the College Classique Feminin to start the first post-earthquake school year, their desire to seek sanctuary inside was palpable.
Dashing off a street clogged with vendors hawking car mats and phone chargers, they reconnected with hugs and squeals. They cheered the absence of the stifling tents in which they studied last spring. And they all but embraced an administrator's warning that strict discipline would be reinstated after a lax period when ''we all were traumatized.''
Still, nothing felt normal. The school's door bore a frightening scarlet stamp, slapped there by government engineers who consider it unsafe. The semi-collapsed central building loomed menacingly over eight portable classrooms that clearly would not fit 13 grades. And the all-girl student body had dwindled to almost half its pre-disaster enrollment.
When the opening bell rang, the students, from first graders in hair ribbons to seniors in lip gloss, formed neat lines in the dusty courtyard. In a rousing rendition of the national anthem, they sang, ''For the country, for our forefathers, let us march united.'' Then Chantal Kenol, a director, raised a bullhorn. 
''We're postponing the start of classes until next week,'' she announced, explaining more repairs were needed and acknowledging this was ''not good news.'' Freezing briefly, the students erupted in moans. One voice rang out: ''No, not good news! Not at all, not at all!''
A new plan for reforming Haiti's weak educational system envisions a publicly funded network of privately managed schools, similar to what has developed in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina. It calls for subsidies to and accreditation of the nonpublic schools that educate some 82 percent of Haitian students.
But, like the College Classique Feminin (known as C.C.F.), many independent schools are in danger of collapsing financially before such a public-private partnership can be realized. They are struggling to reopen and stay open, to rebuild, and to retain student students and teachers.
Forty-six years after its founding, C.C.F., a once-elite school catering to lower-middle-class girls who aspire to be the doctors, engineers and teachers of Haiti's future, is fighting for its life. So are many other battered institutions, from hospitals to universities, during this limbo period before reconstructions begins.
''You have to be really determined right now,'' said Marie Alice Craft, another C.C.F. director. ''If you're not, the whole thing will fall apart, and we can't allow that to happen. The adults are exhausted, but these kids deserve a future. We can't let C.C.F. fail, just like we can't let Haiti fail.''
The Need to Reform
In the first week of October, Haiti's reconstruction commission approved a $500 million Inter-American Development Bank project to reconstruct the education sector. That same week, the back-to-school date of Oct. 4 proved little more than ''symbolic,'' as Pierre Michel Laguerre, the Education Ministry's director general, put it.
With thousands of schools damaged or destroyed, hundreds of temporary replacements were still being built by Unicef, the government, the Digicel Foundation and others. Schools had to be cleared of rubble and of displaced people; families had to scrape together money for uniforms and fees.
Neighborhood by neighborhood, students returned gradually to schools that possessed ''the same deficits as before the earthquake -- and then some,'' said Jacky Lumarque, rector of Quisqueya University.
Before the earthquake, Haiti's education system was, at worst, inaccessible -- with half the primary school-age children not in school -- and at best ''mediocre,'' as a presidential commission on education said. ''Many people called teachers and many places called schools were in fact not,'' said Mohamed Fall, Unicef's education chief here.
After the earthquake, longtime advocates for education reform, like Mr. Lumarque, saw an opportunity. From May through July, a presidential commission drafted a $4.2 billion five-year plan for overhauling prekindergarten through university.
Previously, the commission had resisted accepting the nonpublic schools as a linchpin, but the moment demanded pragmatism.
Creating a traditional public school system ''was not realistic in the short term,'' said Marcelo Cabrol, education chief for the development bank. He recruited Paul G. Vallas, the Louisiana Recovery School District superintendent who has overseen a proliferation of charter schools after Katrina.
Haiti's plan calls for subsidizing nonpublic schools to eliminate or reduce tuition. This was happening before the earthquake on a very limited basis, but its reach would expand greatly and the schools would undergo an increasingly rigorous certification process. Also, large disaster-proofed schools would be built, teacher training programs established and the 50-year-old national curriculum modernized.
Still, while the development bank has committed to raising $500 million, the $4.2 billion reform plan remains largely unfinanced. This worries those familiar with Haiti's poor record for turning strategic plans into realities.
''Right now, we need a series of day-to-day actions to seize the moment,'' Mr. Lumarque said. ''But there is no ownership for this plan. Elections are Nov. 28, the education minister has packed his bags, donors are in a wait-and-see mode -- and we have a problem with our institutions making it through this year.''
Shortly after the Jan. 12 earthquake, C.C.F.'s four directors ventured into the heart of Port-au-Prince to find out what had befallen their beloved school.
In the nightmarish city center, what they saw at the school gate was heart-stopping: four unattended book bags. They later learned that girls waiting outside for a ride had abandoned the bags and fled to safety.
Inside C.C.F., the media center where girls usually waited at the end of the day was crushed. So was the administrative office where Fabienne Rousseau, the director for discipline whom the girls call either ''the red light'' or ''the immigration officer,'' often stayed late to work. The women peered through the gate and trembled.
''We stood outside our school yard and cried like children,'' Ms. Craft said.
The women, two pairs of sisters, had inherited the school's leadership from their mother and aunt. After surveying the destruction, they drove straight to one of the founder's houses. Elegant and regal with a nimbus of white hair, the founder, Renee Heraux, 77, greeted the women with a home remedy for distress. One by one, she fed them spoonfuls of a sugar cane syrup concoction.
Mrs. Heraux had not been willing to check out the damage with her own eyes. ''To see an oeuvre of 46 years that was destroyed in a few seconds -- ah, no, that is too much to bear,'' she said, her voice breaking.
But she would not let the younger women feel defeated. ''We were saying, 'That's it. C.C.F. is no longer,' '' said Djenane Sajous, one of Mrs. Heraux's daughters. ''But my mom said, 'C.C.F. is not just a building. It's a spirit. It's a heritage.' ''
In the early 1960s, Mrs. Heraux, a teacher, had a vision for an independent Catholic school for girls -- one that included religious instruction but did not belong to the church, employ nuns or rely on rote memorization. She and her co-founders started with 27 girls -- their daughters and friends' daughters. They opened in a rented house, adding grades yearly until they built a small campus and a reputation for top results on official examinations -- and in competitive volleyball.
In the late 1980s, after the Duvalier regime ended, the school, located in a volatile urban zone, began hemorrhaging students. Upper middle class families gravitated to suburban private schools with American or French curriculums; many alumnae declined to send their daughters to the school.
In the end, the school adapted. Civil servants, small business owners and families dependent on remittances from abroad, it turned out, coveted the cachet of one of Haiti's finest schools even if the price tag remained relatively elite.
''The clientele changed,'' Mrs. Heraux said, ''but the education -- the standards -- remained the same.''
Marie Patricia Jean-Gilles, a receptionist at the Ministry of Justice, spends more than a third of her $325 monthly paycheck to send her daughter, Caroline Begein, to C.C.F.
Many Haitian families devote an equivalent chunk of their income to schooling. ''Parents are willing to pay for education in Haiti unlike almost anywhere else,'' Mr. Cabrol said.
They have little choice. The government spends the equivalent of only 1.5 percent of the gross domestic product on education, compared with almost 5 percent in the region.
Choices and Sacrifices
Ms. Jean-Gilles said she was determined to provide Caroline, 15 and in 11th grade, a chance ''to soar above her origins.'' She herself did not make it to 11th grade until 22, at which point she got pregnant, dropped out and lost her husband to liver disease. From then on, Ms. Jean Gilles has been singularly devoted to her daughter, sending her to the best school she could find.
''In Haiti, if you want something for the future of your children, you have to choose wisely and sacrifice,'' Ms. Jean-Gilles said. ''Me alone, I couldn't give her what she's gotten at C.C.F. over the last 10 years. She expresses herself very well, I can say that. People congratulate me. And she wants to be a doctor.''
''More precisely, a pediatrician,'' Caroline interjected.
A poised, outgoing girl, Caroline has absorbed her mother's faith in education -- ''when you go to school, you tether your head securely to your shoulders,'' Caroline says -- and appreciates her sacrifice.
''That's why I work so hard, that's why I don't repeat grades, that's why I have a goal,'' Caroline said. Her goal: ''I plan to put myself at the service of my country and perhaps of humanity.''
Caroline and her mother live in a rental home without electricity outside Port-au-Prince. The house withstood the quake, and Caroline, after nights of praying and singing in the streets with less fortunate neighbors, found herself riddled with survivors' guilt: ''I thought, 'Why not me?' Why was I not under the rubble like the others?' ''
In the months that followed, Caroline and her classmates located one another -- all the students in her class had survived -- and found out who was homeless, who was hurt and who was in mourning. When Caroline learned some were being sent abroad, she begged them not to break up the band of sisters.
''I called friends saying, 'Please, if you leave, that will ruin everything,' '' Caroline said. ''But they had to respect what their parents wanted.''
Before school reopened in April, Caroline often accompanied her mother to work, where she used the Internet to look at school photos posted on Facebook by classmates abroad ''in order to remember the way we were,'' she said.
Caroline, describing herself on Facebook as ''a teen who adores romanticism,'' Skittles and Eminem, posed a defiant question: ''And what if we all were to get together, forming a strong solidarity based on love and determination ... Would we not get Haiti back on its feet?''
In March C.C.F., its records lost, worked to track down students, one phone call leading to the next and finally to a parents' meeting in the wrecked school yard.
Nobody ventured inside to see the startling images: a demolished primary classroom with a teddy bear in clown suit still intact; a tangle of colorful desks violently tossed on a bed of chopped concrete; an assignment from Jan. 12 etched on a blackboard.
Jean Wener Jacquitte, whose daughter Meghann, 15, died in their collapsed house, attended the meeting partly to revisit one of her favorite places. ''I also wanted to tell them in person that Meghann was gone,'' Mr. Jacquitte said, staring at a picture of her on his cellphone.
The directors felt overwhelmed by the parents' determination to start over. ''With each parent who said, 'Yes, my child is alive, and yes, my child will come back,' we realized we could not close,'' Ms. Rousseau said. ''We could not let them down.''
Some schools tried to recover fees for the three months when they were closed. C.C.F. did not. As a result, the directors did not pay their staff -- or themselves -- for those months, which upset many teachers.
Jeanette Nicaisse, 41, a math teacher there for 25 years, lost her home to the earthquake and gained two new dependents: her mother, whose legs were crushed, and her adult brother, who suffered a disabling head injury.
''Obviously, I see the state of the school, and I know they have to spend a lot to fix it,'' Ms. Nicaisse said. ''But we all have problems. The teachers were very angry. We have a 12-month contract and it wasn't honored. Now, sometimes, I think, if a better offer came along ...''
In April, the directors gathered the students for a week of group therapy, led by Ms. Craft, a psychologist. In the tents that would serve as their classrooms, the girls stood in circles, clasped hands and reintroduced themselves.
''My name is Caroline Begein, and I survived the earthquake of Jan. 12,'' began Caroline, who then coaxed a classmate trembling with tears to follow.
''My name is Medjina Gene,'' she said, ''and I, too, survived the earthquake of Jan. 12.'' Medjina, whose mother had been injured and had close relatives killed, was in shaky shape.
But the group sessions soothed her, she said: ''They helped me not to cry and to look at things from another perspective -- to have hope, to make new attachments and to let those dear beings I lost remain in my heart.''
Sustaining a Legacy
Eight of 18 10th graders, including Caroline and Medjina, had returned. School days were truncated, grades combined and extras like sports and computers were gone. All but one 10th grader passed their state exams in July, and when they parted, they imagined that 11th grade would be the time they finally put the earthquake behind them.
In August and September, the directors struggled to find help for expensive demolition and construction work. When the Education Ministry offered no guidance, they used connections to get a government agency to build portable classrooms.
The work proceeded slowly, and the directors internalized their anxiety, suffering back aches and chest pains. Things looked bleak. The school had 329 students before the earthquake. By the registration deadline in September, only 19 parents had paid tuition deposits.
''I think the earthquake just revealed the cracks that were already there,'' Ms. Kenol said. ''Everybody's financial situation was already degraded. Parents were less and less able to pay. We were already thinking that we would need some kind of subsidies.''
On that canceled first day of school, the disappointed students regained their equilibrium remarkably fast. After the hardship they had endured since January, this was a minor setback. After classes resumed, the students were thrilled to crawl back inside the school's cocoon. But new issues kept intruding, like hurricanes and epidemics. Caroline, elected class secretary, organized a discussion club. Asked the topics, she said, ''Cholera, cute boys, whatever.''
In the final count, some 174 students returned to C.C.F., short of the school's minimum enrollment to make ends meet. The directors began to harbor serious doubts they could sustain the legacy they inherited.
Some parents, like Pierre Richard Milfort, said that if C.C.F. did shut down, he might take advantage of his American visa and abandon Haiti. ''It would be a signal that everything really is coming undone,'' he said.
But Caroline refused to contemplate that her school might die. She put her hand over her ears, said, ''No! Stop!'' adding, ''It would be very disastrous -- for me personally and for Haiti.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Caroline Begein, 15, center, prayed with other students at the nonpublic College Classique Feminin in Port-au-Prince, Haiti. (A1)
BACK TO SCHOOL, POST-EARTHQUAKE: Students showed up at the College Classique Feminin for the first day of the post-earthquake school year in mid-October. But classes had to be postponed for repairs.
 TENTS AS CLASSROOMS: A class gathered inside a tent provided by Unicef where the Ecole Paroissiale de St. Gerard stood before it was damaged last January in Port-au-Prince. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (74%); ACCREDITATION (73%); SCHOOL INSPECTIONS & ACCREDITATION (73%); HURRICANE KATRINA (72%); MODULAR SCHOOL BUILDINGS (72%); HURRICANES (67%); CATERING SERVICES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010



552 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; CONTRIBUTING COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Safer Social Security

BYLINE: By PETER ORSZAG. 
Peter Orszag, the director of the White House Office of Management and Budget from 2009 to 2010 and a distinguished visiting fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, is a contributing columnist for The Times.

 BODY:
Social Security is not the key fiscal problem facing the nation. Payments to its beneficiaries amount to 5 percent of the economy now; by 2050, they're projected to rise to about 6 percent. Over the same period, federal health care costs will increase six times as much.
Nevertheless, Social Security does face an actuarial deficit. Current projections suggest that, after 2037, benefits would need to be reduced by more than 20 percent to match revenue. Measured over the next 75 years, the deficit in Social Security is expected to amount to 0.7 percent of the economy -- not a huge amount, but a deficit nonetheless. 
So it would be desirable to put the system on sounder financial footing. And that is precisely what the co-chairmen of President Obama's bipartisan commission on reducing the national debt have bravely proposed to do. It's too bad their proposal has been greeted with so much criticism, especially from progressives -- who really should look at it as an opportunity to fix Social Security without privatizing it. Although the plan leans too much on future benefit reductions and not enough on revenue increases, it still offers a good starting point for reform.
The proposal put forward last week by Alan Simpson, the former Senate Republican leader, and Erskine Bowles, who was a White House chief of staff under President Bill Clinton, has four main elements.
First, it would make the payroll tax more progressive by increasing the maximum earnings level to which it applies. Over the past several decades, as higher earners have enjoyed particularly rapid wage gains, a growing share of their wages has escaped the tax because they have been above the maximum taxable level. Today, about 15 percent of total wages are not taxed. The chairmen recommend gradually raising the maximum threshold so that, by 2050, only 10 percent of total wages wouldn't be taxed -- decreasing the 75-year Social Security deficit by more than a third.
Second, Mr. Simpson and Mr. Bowles recommend indexing the age at which full Social Security benefits can be received to increases in life expectancy. This age is already increasing to 67, and under the proposal the gradual rise would continue, to 68 by 2050. A better approach would be to leave the full benefit age alone and instead directly reduce the monthly benefits as life expectancy rises, to keep average lifetime benefits roughly constant. But the chairmen's approach would by itself narrow the Social Security gap by about a fifth.
The third suggested change is to make the formula for determining Social Security benefits more progressive, by reducing future payments to high earners while increasing them for people at the bottom. These adjustments would close at least another third of the projected deficit. And they would also help offset a little-noticed trend: affluent Americans are increasingly living longer than others. This pushes the Social Security system toward being less progressive, as higher earners collect benefits for more years.
Finally, Mr. Bowles and Mr. Simpson would have Congress adjust the cost-of-living index that's used to determine annual increases in Social Security benefits so that it would measure inflation more accurately. Making this switch would fill in more than a quarter of the long-term deficit, because the new index would grow more slowly.
If Congress were to take all four of these recommended steps, it could not only eliminate the long-term deficit in Social Security but also make the system much more progressive. Even compared with the benefits promised by the current system, the recommended benefits for the poorest 20 percent of recipients would increase by about 5 percent, while those for the wealthiest retirees would fall by almost 20 percent.
Furthermore, the plan would not create private accounts within Social Security -- the most controversial issue that came up when reform was last debated in 2005. Why not lock in a reform when private accounts are off the table? (Note to progressives: the Social Security plan put forward by Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, the expected new chairman of the House Budget Committee, does include private accounts.)
The main flaw in the proposed Social Security plan is that it relies too little on revenue increases and too much on future benefit reductions. A reasonable objective would be a 50-50 balance between changes in benefits and changes in revenues. But the way to bring reform into better proportion is to adjust the components of this proposal, not to fundamentally remodel it.
Finally, even though Social Security is not a major contributor to our long-term deficits, reforming it could help the federal government establish much-needed credibility on solving out-year fiscal problems -- which in turn could improve the political prospects for providing additional short-term stimulus for the economy. All of which suggests that Democrats in Congress should support the basic construct of the Bowles-Simpson proposal, while arguing for some changes to improve it. That has not, however, been their reaction thus far.
It is therefore crucial that the Obama administration recognize the opportunity and respond to it more positively. The White House has been handed a highly progressive reform plan for Social Security that could attract Republican support as well.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STEPHEN SAVAGE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (79%); PRIVATIZATION (79%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (56%); ERSKINE BOWLES (53%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010



553 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: The World as He Finds It

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
On Wednesday David Axelrod, President Obama's top political adviser, appeared to signal that the White House was ready to cave on tax cuts -- to give in to Republican demands that tax cuts be extended for the wealthy as well as the middle class. ''We have to deal with the world as we find it,'' he declared.
The White House then tried to walk back what Mr. Axelrod had said. But it was a telling remark, in more ways than one. 
The obvious point is the contrast between the administration's current whipped-dog demeanor and Mr. Obama's soaring rhetoric as a candidate. How did we get from ''We are the ones we've been waiting for'' to here?
But the bitter irony goes deeper than that: the main reason Mr. Obama finds himself in this situation is that two years ago he was not, in fact, prepared to deal with the world as he was going to find it. And it seems as if he still isn't.
In retrospect, the roots of current Democratic despond go all the way back to the way Mr. Obama ran for president. Again and again, he defined America's problem as one of process, not substance -- we were in trouble not because we had been governed by people with the wrong ideas, but because partisan divisions and politics as usual had prevented men and women of good will from coming together to solve our problems. And he promised to transcend those partisan divisions.
This promise of transcendence may have been good general election politics, although even that is questionable: people forget how close the presidential race was at the beginning of September 2008, how worried Democrats were until Sarah Palin and Lehman Brothers pushed them over the hump. But the real question was whether Mr. Obama could change his tune when he ran into the partisan firestorm everyone who remembered the 1990s knew was coming. He could do uplift -- but could he fight?
So far the answer has been no.
Right at the beginning of his administration, what Mr. Obama needed to do, above all, was fight for an economic plan commensurate with the scale of the crisis. Instead, he negotiated with himself before he ever got around to negotiating with Congress, proposing a plan that was clearly, grossly inadequate -- then allowed that plan to be scaled back even further without protest. And the failure to act forcefully on the economy, more than anything else, accounts for the midterm ''shellacking.''
Even given the economy's troubles, however, the administration's efforts to limit the political damage were amazingly weak. There were no catchy slogans, no clear statements of principle; the administration's political messaging was not so much ineffective as invisible. How many voters even noticed the ever-changing campaign themes -- does anyone remember the ''Summer of Recovery'' -- that were rolled out as catastrophe loomed?
And things haven't improved since the election. Consider Mr. Obama's recent remarks on two fronts.
At the predictably unproductive G-20 summit meeting in South Korea, the president faced demands from China and Germany that the Federal Reserve stop its policy of ''quantitative easing'' -- which is, given Republican obstructionism, one of the few tools available to promote U.S. economic recovery. What Mr. Obama should have said is that nations' running huge trade surpluses -- and in China's case, doing so thanks to currency manipulation on a scale unprecedented in world history -- have no business telling the United States that it can't act to help its own economy.
But what he actually said was ''From everything I can see, this decision was not one designed to have an impact on the currency, on the dollar.'' Fighting words!
And then there's the tax-cut issue. Mr. Obama could and should be hammering Republicans for trying to hold the middle class hostage to secure tax cuts for the wealthy. He could be pointing out that making the Bush tax cuts for the wealthy permanent is a huge budget issue -- over the next 75 years it would cost as much as the entire Social Security shortfall. Instead, however, he is once again negotiating with himself, long before he actually gets to the table with the G.O.P.
Here's the thing: Mr. Obama still has immense power, if he chooses to use it. At home, he has the veto pen, control of the Senate and the bully pulpit. He still has substantial executive authority to act on things like mortgage relief -- there are billions of dollars not yet spent, not to mention the enormous leverage the government has via its ownership of Fannie and Freddie. Abroad, he still leads the world's greatest economic power -- and one area where he surely would get bipartisan support would be taking a tougher stand on China and other international bad actors.
But none of this will matter unless the president can find it within himself to use his power, to actually take a stand. And the signs aren't good.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); DAVID AXELROD (88%); SARAH PALIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010



554 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: As Studios Cut Back, Investors See Opening

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- When Timmy Thompson, who made a lot of his money in oil field services, took a close look at the movie business a couple of years ago, he saw companies folding, credit collapsing and talent knocked down a peg in the aftermath of a labor war.
In all, it looked like a pretty good place to invest.
''We've always made our living by buying when things are down,'' said Mr. Thompson, who spoke by telephone from Louisiana. 
How down?
A few hours earlier, George Clooney had appeared in Santa Monica, Calif., at the American Film Market, where he joined operatives from Mr. Thompson's newly established Cross Creek Pictures and others in selling rights to ''The Ides of March.'' It is a political morality tale that will be directed by Mr. Clooney, and will feature him in a cast that includes Philip Seymour Hoffman, Ryan Gosling, Paul Giamatti, Marisa Tomei and Evan Rachel Wood.
All worked for union scale, with the expectation of a future payday if the picture hits when Sony Pictures Entertainment releases it. (The minimum payment on a feature film under the Screen Actors Guild contract in the last few years has been about $65,000 plus food and overtime.)
With studios financing fewer movies, a wave of equity investors stepped up their presence in a Hollywood that suddenly made sense to hard-headed business types who were more accustomed to bottom-fishing in the real estate market or drilling for oil.
Snagging an added bonus from states like Louisiana and Michigan, which offer generous subsidies for local film production, the new players -- who mind the old saw ''cash is king'' -- are typically risking just a few million dollars to get a substantial ownership position in films that are cheap enough to yield a profit even in an era of diminished home-video revenues.
''If you have capital, you're positioned well,'' said Brian Oliver, a producer who joined Mr. Thompson and others in starting Cross Creek. Among its first ventures, the company provided backing for ''Black Swan,'' which is directed by Darren Aronofsky and stars Natalie Portman. It will be released by Fox Searchlight Pictures on Dec. 3.
Hollywood has played host to a succession of outside investors, some of whom fared better than others. Marvin Davis, the oil entrepreneur, made a tidy profit buying and then selling 20th Century Fox, while Credit Lyonnais, the French bank, became mired in failed loans to a string of film companies. Waves of investment came from doctors and lawyers who were dabbling with film partnerships, Japanese conglomerates, the German stock market, Internet entrepreneurs and cash-laden hedge funds.
Even a few years ago, the industry took a toll on investors as savvy as the garment magnate Sidney Kimmel, whose long-established film company was burned by disappointments like ''Charlie Bartlett'' and ''Synecdoche, New York.''
But only lately have falling salaries, rising subsidies and a thinning of competition turned the financial equation in favor of the investor.
The current crop of equity investors includes Joe Ricketts, the Chicago Cubs co-owner whose American Film Company recently backed ''The Conspirator,'' directed by Robert Redford; Steven M. Rales, who is chairman of the Danaher Corporation, and whose Indian Paintbrush company was a co-financier of ''The Fantastic Mr. Fox,'' directed by Wes Anderson; and Sarah Siegel-Magness and Gary Magness, the Colorado investors whose Smokewood Entertainment Group backed ''Precious: Based on the Novel 'Push' by Sapphire,'' which had six Oscar nominations, winning two, this year.
Among those who seek to build a large-scale enterprise is Tim Headington, the oil entrepreneur based in Dallas who recently joined the producer Graham King in starting FilmDistrict, a company that plans to distribute as many as eight films a year, in an alliance with Sony Pictures Entertainment.
''We're taking advantage of the extra capacity at Sony, to bring them theatrical product,'' Peter Schlessel, FilmDistrict's chief executive, said of a situation in which Sony has the ability to put more films in theaters and into home entertainment outlets than it currently chooses to finance.
More often, however, Hollywood's newer investors resemble Michael Benaroya, a 29-year-old whose family built a real estate fortune in Seattle. ''So far, we've been doing very well,'' said Mr. Benaroya, who spoke by telephone last week from the American Film Market, where he, like many of his peers, were courting foreign buyers.
Benaroya Pictures is currently offering rights to ''Margin Call,'' a film about 24 hours among a group of investment bank employees during the 2008 financial crisis, with performances by Kevin Spacey, Demi Moore, Stanley Tucci, Paul Bettany and Jeremy Irons, among others.
The budget, said Mr. Benaroya, was less than $4 million, only about a quarter of which was paid to the cast. The film was shot in New York, where government incentives help cover the cost -- so even modest sales in video, foreign or theatrical markets assure a profit.
Alcon Entertainment, which has been in the business since 1997, had a major hit in ''The Blind Side,'' which took in about $256 million at the domestic box office and had a budget of only about $35 million. The State of Georgia covered $5.5 million of that cost, and Sandra Bullock, the film's star, in keeping with the new economics, worked for a sharply reduced upfront salary.
''It has been great,'' said Andrew Kosove, who joined Broderick Johnson in starting Alcon with backing from the FedEx founder, Frederick W. Smith. ''But if you had asked me that question not long ago, the response would have been more measured,'' he added.
A flood of new investors, cautions Mr. Kosove, might easily expand the number of films being made, once again pushing up costs and making it difficult to find distributors. For the moment, however, ''it's a great time'' for those with ready capital, said Rick Schwartz, a producer who has been aligned with Alan Bernon, a Texas dairy executive and investor.
Among their projects is ''Machete,'' an over-the-top action caper that was directed by Robert Rodriguez and Ethan Maniquis, and took in about $26.6 million at the domestic box office after 20th Century Fox released it in September.
Mr. Schwartz reckons that the film cost $10.5 million, after some help from a Texas subsidy program. Domestic rights went to Fox for about $9 million, and foreign rights, he said, brought nearly $12 million -- so the film's revenue to the producer and partners was roughly double its cost.
And that, he said, ''is a pretty good model.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, the movie investors Robert Ogden Barnum, left in foreground, and Michael Benaroya at the American Film Market. Above, Paul Bettany in ''Margin Call'' from Benaroya Pictures. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JOJO WHILDEN/MARGIN CALL PRODUCTIONS) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (92%); FILM (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); OVERTIME (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (80%); SONY PICTURES ENTERTAINMENT INC (55%); CREDIT LYONNAIS SA (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (80%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (80%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); SIC7822 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE DISTRIBUTION (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE CLOONEY (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010



555 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: The Party of No

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
By offering up their joint recommendation last week for balancing the budget, the co-chairmen of Barack Obama's fiscal commission didn't solve our deficit problem once and for all, or clear a path through the political thickets facing would-be budget cutters. But Erskine Bowles and Alan Simpson performed a valuable public service nonetheless: the reaction to their proposals demonstrated that when it comes to addressing the long-term challenges facing this country, the Democrats, too, can play the Party of No.
Last week's media coverage sometimes made it sound as if Bowles and Simpson were taking the same amount of fire from left and right. But the reaction from Republican lawmakers and the conservative intelligentsia was muted, respectful and often favorable; the right-wing griping mostly came from single-issue activists and know-nothing television entertainers. The liberal attacks, on the other hand, came fast and furious, from pundits and leading Democratic politicians alike -- starting with the speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi, who pronounced the recommendations ''simply unacceptable'' almost immediately after their release. 
Liberals defended this knee-jerk response on the grounds that the commissioners' vision, ostensibly bipartisan, was actually tilted toward Republican priorities. And it's true that Bowles and Simpson proposed more spending cuts than tax increases over all. But most of the programs and tax breaks that they suggested trimming -- from farm subsidies to Defense Department bloat and the home-mortgage tax deduction -- represent the American welfare state at its absolute worst. And the duo went out of their way to avoid balancing the budget on the backs of the poor. (Social Security, for instance, would be strengthened through a mix of tax increases and benefit cuts for wealthier seniors; retirees close to the poverty line would see their benefits increase.)
Their proposals certainly weren't flawless, but they did manage to include good ideas from right and left alike. And it's illuminating, and very depressing, that Democrats were so immediately outraged by a plan that reduces corporate welfare, makes Social Security more progressive, slashes the defense budget, raises the tax rate on millionaires' summer homes -- and does all of this while capping the government's share of gross domestic product, not at some Scrooge-like minimum but at the highest level in modern American history.
Needless to say, none of the liberal lawmakers attacking the Simpson-Bowles proposals offered alternative blueprints for restoring America's solvency. The Democratic Party has plans for many things, but a balanced budget isn't one of them.
But pondering what Nancy Pelosi and her compatriots are rejecting gives us a pretty good sense of what they're for. It's a world where the government perpetually warps the real estate and health care marketplaces, subsidizing McMansions and gold-plated insurance plans to the tune of billions every year. It's a world where federal jobs are sacrosanct, but the private sector has to labor under one of the higher corporate tax rates in the developed West. It's a world where the Social Security retirement age never budges, no matter how high average life expectancy climbs. And it's a world where federal spending rises inexorably to 25 percent of G.D.P. and beyond, and taxes rise with it.
Liberals sometimes justify this vision by arguing that government has to permanently subsidize the middle class and affluent in order to maintain public support for any safety net at all. (Most voters won't support a system of basic social insurance for the poor, the theory goes, unless they're getting something out of it as well.) And they defend the ever-rising tax rates required to finance these ever-expanding entitlements by noting that America thrived economically in the wake of World War II, when income-tax rates were much higher than they are today.
The first argument ignores the lessons of liberalism's usual teacher, Western Europe, where governments have successfully reduced spending on their pension and entitlement systems without compromising their commitment to their neediest citizens. The second argument ignores the fact that the postwar United States didn't have any serious economic competitors (the rest of the globe having been brought to its knees by total war), whereas today, an overtaxed America would struggle to compete with China and India and Brazil.
But the deeper problem is that the entire approach treats Americans as moral midgets, incapable of providing for the elderly and indigent without being bribed with giveaways and propped up with subsidies. The alternative sketched by Bowles and Simpson last week has its weaknesses, but it has this great virtue: It treats Americans not as clients but as citizens, and not as children but as adults.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POLITICS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); AGING (68%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (64%); HISTORY (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); NANCY PELOSI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010



556 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: Beastweek? Good Luck With That

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail: carr@nytimes.com; twitter.com/carr2n

 BODY:
Putting together The Daily Beast and Newsweek makes little financial sense, includes not much in the way of editorial synergies -- is it The News Beast or The Daily Week? -- and marries two properties that have almost nothing in common other than the fact that they both lose lots of money.
Other than that? A great idea. Brilliant, really. And it will be fun to watch.
For starters, it will be nice to see Tina Brown back in print, just two years after starting The Daily Beast for Barry Diller at IAC and making it clear that she was crossing over to digital media and had no intention of coming back. 
''I would hate to be in the magazine world. It's a really tough world to have to compete in,'' said Ms. Brown at the EconWomen conference in 2008. But that clear-eyed assessment seemed very far away on Thursday night. Never mind all that black crepe; bring on the Champagne!
''What does this exciting new media marriage mean? It means that The Daily Beast's animal high spirits will now be teamed with a legendary, weekly print magazine in a joint venture, named The Newsweek Daily Beast Company, owned equally by Barry Diller's IAC and Sidney Harman, owner (and savior) of Newsweek,'' she wrote in an announcement on the site Thursday night. Her note to readers came after The New York Observerbroke the news that the wedding, which had been called off just weeks before, was back on.
Nuptials that grow out of broken engagements seem particularly fragile, and there is a kind of shotgun aspect to all of this: The Daily Beast is up against the seemingly impossible economics of producing quality general interest content on the Web, and with its weekly cadence, Newsweek has lost salience in a news environment cluttered with rapid new competitors, like, um, The Daily Beast.
For Mr. Diller, the deal is an opportunity to distribute costs over a larger organization, reach the more reliable advertising platform of print and get his hands on a major media calling card, if one that is tattered almost beyond recognition.
Mr. Harman gets a star editor -- albeit one who doesn't report directly to him -- landing a prized Manhattan media collectible after feckless and fruitless months of searching. The list of people who turned down the job of reviving Newsweek reads like the reservation list of Michael's restaurant in Midtown on a very busy day.
The people who said no before Ms. Brown said yes are said by at least two people involved in the process to include (in no particular order): Peter Kaplan, former editor of The New York Observer and now at Women's Wear Daily; Josh Tyrangiel, formerly of Time Inc. and now at Bloomberg Businessweek; Kurt Andersen, the founder of Spy and the former editor of New York magazine; Adam Moss, the current editor of New York; Jim Kelly, the former editor of Time magazine; Jacob Weisberg, chairman and editor in chief of the Slate Group; Fareed Zakaria, a former Newsweek luminary now at Time and CNN; and Andrew Sullivan, the blogger and former editor of The New Republic.
Mr. Harman seemed unprepared for the challenges that went with plunking down a dollar for Newsweek and assuming some $40 million in liabilities. After he made the deal in August, weeks and then months went by with the patient still on the table, bleeding cash, talent and advertiser interest. Enter Ms. Brown and her trusty set of paddles. ''Clear!'' you can almost hear her shouting as she steps toward the task at hand.
(Her first act was a bit of euthanasia: Newsweek.com is being shut down and its traffic is being redirected to its new sibling, even though it has more than twice the traffic of The Daily Beast.)
Can she combine the two patients into one with a good life expectancy? Stephen Colvin is now chief executive of The Daily Beast Newsweek Publishing and had been president of The Daily Beast. He spent 17 years in magazines at Dennis Publishing, which included the then-successful Maxim magazines and where he also started The Week, which turned out to be a pretty good idea, and wouldn't you know, created turbulence for Newsweek with its formula of aggregating weekly content in print. He is confident that the blend of the operations will be a fruitful one.
''It combines a great, prestigious magazine with a very buzzy, feisty Web site, both targeted at the same audience,'' he said. ''We have budgets, we have a plan, and if we execute, there is a real opportunity here.''
Mr. Colvin won't say so, but Newsweek is less prestigious than it used to be. Yes, Ms. Brown's track record in reinventing magazines is excellent, but in the case of both Vanity Fair and The New Yorker, she had the backing of S. I. Newhouse, whose financial indulgence was eventually rewarded with revitalized franchises that are part of the core assets of Conde Nast.
Mr. Harman and Mr. Diller have deep pockets, too, but they are already dealing with very significant losses -- about $500,000 a week at Newsweek, and The Daily Beast, a much smaller enterprise, will lose about $10 million this year.
''When you step back, this is not a marriage made in heaven,'' said Mark Edmiston, a former media investment banker who was the president of Newsweek in the 1980s. ''You have two very different owners with very different motivations. At Sidney's age, he is interested in creating a journalistic legacy, while Barry will be looking to monetize his investment in The Daily Beast by doing what Politico does, which is use a print product to subsidize a digital business.''
''And if you leave Tina out of it for a moment, what is the model?'' he added. ''I don't see how you can take two money-losing businesses and put them together and come up with a single entity that makes money.''
He's got a point. Imagine trying to sell packaged advertising: ''Not only will you get a great ad position on a fresh, provocative Web site, but we will also sell you a large brand advertisement in a storied weekly that circulates to 1.5 million Americans.'' Gee, that sounds like a very unusual animal, one that has the head of a goat and the backside of a cow.
When the merger talks fell apart three weeks ago, staff members at The Daily Beast were relieved and couldn't help noticing that Ms. Brown seemed ''almost giddy that she didn't end up with this 1,000-pound rock strapped to her back,'' according to one staff member who didn't want to be quoted talking that way about the boss.
Now she has to get the rock off her back and start rolling it up a hill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (77%); JOINT VENTURES (51%)

COMPANY: TIME INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%)

PERSON: BARRY DILLER (74%); SIDNEY HARMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010



557 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; BRIEFLY; Pg. 

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: Number of Chinese Students in U.S. Colleges Soars

BYLINE: By THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE

 BODY:
Number of Chinese students in U.S. colleges soars 30%
The number of Chinese students studying in the United States surged 30 percent in the 2009-2010 academic year, making China, for the first time, the top country of origin for international students, according to ''Open Doors,'' the Institute of International Education's annual report, being issued Monday. 
The report found that a record high of 690,923 international students came to the United States last year -- nearly 128,000 of them, or more than 18 percent, from China. Overall, the number of international students at U.S. colleges increased 3 percent for the 2009-2010 academic year. India increased its numbers only slightly, to 104,897, last year.
''The number of students from China is booming, because of that booming Chinese economy,'' said Peggy Blumenthal, executive vice president of the institute. ''But India, which also has a booming economy, is only up 1.6 percent. I think one factor is the great number of Chinese families with disposable income, two working parents and only one child, and a determination to invest their money to make sure that child receives the best education possible.''
David B. Austell, director of the office for international students and scholars at New York University, said the Chinese undergraduates come primarily from urban areas on China's east coast. Because they are not eligible for the same student aid as Americans, and usually pay full tuition, he said, their growing presence is an indicator of just how many Chinese families are financially strong. -- TAMAR LEWIN
International enrollments rise at U.S. graduate schools
Enrollment of new international students in U.S. graduate programs has increased 3 percent over 2009 figures, according to a survey by the Council of Graduate Schools. The figure represents a return to the increases of 3 percent and 4 percent seen in 2008 and 2007, in contrast with the zero percent growth recorded in 2009.
Analyzing data from 230 institutes of higher education, the study measured first-time graduate international enrollment, which it called the best indicator of future trends. Enrollment of Chinese students increased the most in 2010, at 20 percent greater than 2009 levels; the Middle East and Turkey followed at 7 percent. Conversely, first-time enrollment of students from India and South Korea was down 3 percent. -- REBECCA APPEL

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (91%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); FAMILY (88%); TUITION FEES (78%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (78%); TRENDS (77%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (93%); TURKEY (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010



558 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: 30 Private-College Chiefs Got Over $1 Million in '08

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
Thirty presidents of private colleges each earned more than $1 million in total compensation in 2008, up from 23 the previous year, according to The Chronicle of Higher Education's annual salary report.
Over all, though, 78 percent of presidents of private colleges had total compensation packages of less than $600,000 in 2008, and half earned less than $400,000. A year earlier, 82 percent earned less than $600,000, and 58 percent less than $400,000.
''As usual, there are a few outliers,'' said Jeffrey Selingo, editor of The Chronicle, which compiled compensation data from the tax filings of 448 private colleges with expenditures of more than $50 million. ''When looking at the very big numbers, there's always a lot of reasons why those people got such high compensation packages.'' 
The Chronicle's top 10 list is a mix of presidents in different, and unusual, circumstances.
The highest-paid college president was Bernard Lander, an Orthodox rabbi and sociologist who founded Touro College in 1970 and over four decades expanded it to dozens of campuses around the world. Mr. Lander, who had a compensation package of $4,786,830, died in February. Another of the top 10, Constantine Papadakis of Drexel University ($1,626,092), died in April 2009.
The second highest paid, earning $2,777,653, was John R. Brazil of Trinity University in Texas, who resigned in January. Steven B. Sample of the University of Southern California, who also retired, earned $1,913,927.
The top 10 included only one Ivy League president, Lee C. Bollinger of Columbia University, who earned $1,753,984.
The highest-paid sitting president is R. Gerald Turner of Southern Methodist University, who earned $2,774,000. However, The Chronicle said that according to the university, $1.5 million of that total compensation was a result of Mr. Turner's cashing out a life insurance policy and buying his own.
Generally, large research universities pay their presidents more than liberal arts colleges. But a university's reputation and prestige do not guarantee a top compensation package. The president of Harvard, Drew Faust, earns $822,011, slightly less than M. Lee Pelton, the president of Willamette University, the highest-paying institution that focuses on bachelor's degrees.
Because of an Internal Revenue Service overhaul that changed both the period of the reports and the perks reported, the newly released results are not fully comparable with those of previous years.
Nor do they offer much insight into how the recession has affected higher education, since the period covered is the 2008 calendar year. The economic crisis did not, for the most part, affect colleges until the fall of that year, by which point most pay packages had already been negotiated and signed.
Given rising tuition rates and the economic crisis, The Chronicle's annual compensation surveys -- the one covering pay at public universities will follow -- always prompt debate about whether college presidents are overpaid.
Groups advocating for greater college access point to the growing pay gap between presidents and professors and the increasing problem that American families face in affording college tuition, as they call for colleges to cut back on lavish compensation.
But groups representing the colleges point to the complexity of modern universities, the difficulty of recruiting the right presidents and the need to pay enough to retain them.
Mr. Selingo said he expected pay to keep rising.
''What I'm hearing from boards and search consultants that help place presidents is that finding the right candidate is becoming more and more difficult,'' Mr. Selingo said. ''There have been a couple studies that showed that provosts, the chief academic officers who normally would fall in line to become president, increasingly don't want to become presidents.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: For Some, Academics Pays Very Well: The highest-paid presidents and executives of private colleges. (Source: The Chronicle of Higher Education) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); SALARY SURVEYS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); TUITION FEES (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (70%); TAX LAW (70%); SOCIOLOGY (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (62%); LIFE INSURANCE (50%); INSURANCE POLICIES (50%)

COMPANY: CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION (58%)

ORGANIZATION: DREXEL UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (54%)

PERSON: DREW GILPIN FAUST (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010



559 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: Questionable Science Behind Academic Rankings

BYLINE: By D.D. GUTTENPLAN

 BODY:
LONDON -- For institutions that regularly make the Top 10, the autumn announcement of university rankings is an occasion for quiet self-congratulation.
When Cambridge beat Harvard for the No. 1 spot in the QS World University Rankings this September, Cambridge put out a press release. When Harvard topped the Times Higher Education list two weeks later, it was Harvard's turn to gloat.
But the news that Alexandria University in Egypt had placed 147th on the list -- just below the University of Birmingham and ahead of such academic powerhouses as Delft University of Technology in the Netherlands (151st) or Georgetown in the United States (164th) -- was cause for both celebration and puzzlement. Alexandria's Web site was quick to boast of its newfound status as the only Arab university among the top 200.
Ann Mroz, editor of Times Higher Education magazine, issued a statement congratulating the Egyptian university, adding ''any institution that makes it into this table is truly world class.'' 
But researchers who looked behind the headlines noticed that the list also ranked Alexandria fourth in the world in a subcategory that weighed the impact of a university's research -- behind only Caltech, M.I.T. and Princeton, and ahead of both Harvard and Stanford.
Like most university rankings, the list is made up of several different indicators, which are given weighted scores and combined to produce a final number or ranking. As Richard Holmes, who teaches at the Universiti Teknologi MARA in Malaysia, wrote on his University Ranking Watch blog, according to the Webometrics ranking of World Universities, published by the Spanish Ministry of Education, Alexandria University is ''not even the best university in Alexandria.''
The overall result, he wrote, was skewed by ''one indicator, citations, which accounted for 32.5% of the total weighting.''
Phil Baty, deputy editor of Times Higher Education, acknowledged that Alexandria's surprising prominence was actually due to ''the high output from one scholar in one journal'' -- soon identified on various blogs as Mohamed El Naschie, an Egyptian academic who published over 320 of his own articles in a scientific journal of which he was also the editor. In November 2009, Dr. El Naschie sued the British journal Nature for libel over an article alleging his ''apparent misuse of editorial privileges.'' The case is still in court.
One swallow may not make a summer, but the revelation that one scholar can make a world class university comes at a particularly embarrassing time for the rapidly burgeoning business of rating academic excellence.
''The problem is we don't know what we're trying to measure,'' said Ellen Hazelkorn, Dean of the Graduate Research School at the Dublin Institute of Technology and author of ''Rankings and the Reshaping of Higher Education: the Battle for World Class Excellence,'' coming out this March. ''We need cross-national comparative data that is meaningful. But we also need to know whether the way the data are collected makes it more useful -- or easier to game the system.''
Dr. Hazelkorn also questioned whether the widespread emphasis on bibliometrics -- using figures for academic publications or how often faculty members are cited in scholarly journals as proxies for measuring the quality or influence of a university department -- made any sense. ''I understand that bibliometrics is attractive because it looks objective. But as Einstein used to say, 'Not everything that can be counted counts, and not everything that counts can be counted.'''
Unlike the Times Higher Education rankings, where surveys of academic reputation make up nearly 45 percent of the total, Shanghai Jiao Tong University relies heavily on faculty publication rates for its rankings; weight is also given to the number of Nobel Prizes or Fields Medals won by alumni or current faculty. The results, say critics, tip toward science and mathematics rather than arts or humanities, while the tally of prizewinners favors rich institutions able to hire faculty members whose best work may be long behind them.
''The big rap on rankings, which has a great deal of truth to it, is that they're excessively focused on inputs,'' said Ben Wildavsky, author of ''The Great Brain Race,'' who said that measuring faculty size or publications, or counting the books in the university library, as some rankings do, tells you more about a university's resources than about how those resources impact on students. Nevertheless Mr. Wildavsky, who edited U.S. News and World Report's Best Colleges list from 2006 to 2008, described himself as ''a qualified defender'' of the process.
''Just because you can't measure everything doesn't mean you shouldn't measure anything,'' said Mr. Wildavsky, adding that when U.S. News published its first college guide in 1987 a delegation of college presidents met with the magazine's editors to ask that the whole exercise be stopped.
Today there are over 40 different rankings -- some, like U.S. News, focused on a single country or a single academic field like business administration, medicine or law, while others attempt to compare universities on a global scale.
Mr. Wildavsky freely admits the system is subject to all kinds of bias. ''A lot of ratings use graduation rates as a measure of student success,'' he said. ''An urban-setting university is probably not going to have the same graduation rate as Dartmouth.''
''But there's a real need for a globalized comparison on the part of students, academic policymakers, and governments,'' he said.
The difficulty, Dr. Hazelkorn said, ''is that there is no such thing as an objective ranking.''
Mr. Baty said that when Times Higher Education Magazine first set up its rankings in 2004 ''it was a relatively crude exercise'' aimed mainly at prospective graduate students and academics. Yet today those ratings have an impact on governments as well as on faculties.
Dr. Hazelkorn pointed out that a recent Dutch immigration law explicitly targets foreigners who received their degree ''from a university in the top 150'' of the Shanghai or Times Higher Education rankings.
According to Mr. Baty, it was precisely the editors' awareness that the Times Higher Education rankings ''had become a global news event'' that prompted them to overhaul their methodology for 2010. So it is particularly ironic that the new improved model should prove so vulnerable. ''When you're looking at 25 million individual citations there's no way to examine each one,'' he said. ''We have to rely on the data.''
That may not convince the critics, who apparently include Dr. El Naschie. ''I do not believe at all in this ranking business and do not consider it anyway indicatory of any merit of the corresponding university,'' he said in an e-mail.
But if rankings can't always be relied on, they have become an indispensable part of the educational landscape. ''For all their methodological shortcomings, rankings aren't going to disappear,'' said Jamil Salmi, an education expert at the World Bank. Mr. Salmi said that the first step in using rankings wisely is to be clear about what is actually measured. He also called for policy makers to move ''beyond rankings'' to compare entire education systems. He offered the model of Finland, ''a country that has achieved remarkable progress as an emerging knowledge economy, and yet does not boast any university among the top 50 in the world, but has excellent technology-focused institutions.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); RANKINGS (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (88%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); LIBEL & SLANDER (77%); PUBLISHING (73%); WRITERS (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (66%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (74%) EGYPT (90%); MALAYSIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NETHERLANDS (77%); UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010



560 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Economy Shows Strong Growth

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
TOKYO Japan's economy gained momentum in the third quarter, growing at an annualized pace of 3.9 percent, as the final stretch in government stimulus gave private consumption a last-minute lift.
Still, economists warned of an imminent slowdown as a strong yen, faltering exports and the end of generous government incentives on fuel-efficient cars pinch company earnings.
Deflation, or the debilitating and widespread decline in prices, has also weighed on Japan's recovery from its worst recession since World War II. 
''The growth rate itself beat our expectations,'' said Norio Miyagawa, senior economist at Mizuho Securities Research and Consulting. ''But that growth was helped by a spike in spending by consumers racing to benefit from the last of the government incentives.''
''We can expect the economy to slow in the coming months,'' he said.
''After that, recovery will depend on how the global economy holds up.''
The new figures showed that gross domestic product expanded 0.9 percent in the three months to September from the previous quarter -- Japan's fourth consecutive quarter of growth -- accelerating from a 0.4 percent gain in the second quarter and beating a median forecast for a 0.6 percent rise.
The expansion translated to an annualized gain of 3.9 percent, topping the annualized expansion of 2 percent in the United States in the same quarter.
Private consumption, which accounts for about 60 percent of the economy, increased 1.1 percent, helped by government incentives on the purchase of fuel efficient cars and energy-saving appliances. Those incentives ended in September.
But in a sign of slowing demand overseas, net exports made no contribution to growth in the July-September quarter.
More recent economic data, including sluggish capital expenditure numbers, have pointed to a slowdown in Japan's economy, the world's third largest, after those of the United States and China. The yen's surge this year to 15-year highs, and an economic slowdown in China, Japan's largest trading partner, also poses risks to Japan's economic outlook, economists say.
Recovery in Japan's labor market has been lackluster, with the unemployment rate at 5 percent. Though low by international standards, the unemployment rate masks the rise of temporary and low-paying jobs, especially among women.
Last month, Japan's central bank last month eased its already-loose monetary policy in a bid to shore up the country's faltering recovery, lowering its benchmark interest rate to a range of 0 percent to 0.1 percent and setting up a fund of 5 trillion to buy Japanese government bonds, commercial paper and other securities.
Meanwhile, Japanese Prime Minister Naoto Kan has pledged to bolster economic growth by opening up Japan's markets, saying Tokyo should join a United States-backed free trade initiative that spans the Pacific Rim. But Mr. Kan's plan faces staunch opposition from Japan's farmers, who fear losing the protection of the country's high tariffs against agricultural imports.
On Sunday, Japan joined other leaders at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in committing to take steps to form a region-wide free trade zone.
''Other Asian economies are catching up to or surpassing Japan,'' Mr. Kan told reporters Sunday after the summit, held in the Japanese port city of Yokohama. ''Japan would like to stay a country with vigor, and to survive, we need to integrate economically with Asian and Pacific Rim friends so that together we can grow,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMPTION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); DEFLATION (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); JAPANESE YEN (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); EQUITY RESEARCH (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%); BONDS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); MONETARY POLICY (63%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (60%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%); WORLD WAR II (55%)

COMPANY: MIZUHO SECURITIES CO LTD (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: NAOTO KAN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010



561 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: News From the Advertising Industry

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
News From the Advertising Industry
Accounts
Beiersdorf, Hamburg, Germany, expanded its relationship with DraftFCB, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, by naming DraftFCB as its lead worldwide creative agency. The shift involves brands like Eucerin and Nivea. The other agency that has handled creative tasks, TBWA Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, will remain on the Beiersdorf roster, working on regional assignments. Beiersdorf spends almost $500 million a year on advertising worldwide, according to AdAge.com; BrandRepublic.com estimated the figure at $700 million.
Lufthansa, Cologne, Germany, part of Deutsche Lufthansa, decided after a review to keep Mindshare, part of the GroupM unit of WPP, as its worldwide media agency. Spending was estimated at $100 million. The account is coordinated from the Mindshare office in Frankfurt. 
People
Terry Young will join Epsilon, Dallas, effective on Dec. 7, in a new post, president at a unit named Purple@Epsilon, based in New York. (Purple is the Epsilon corporate color.) Purple@Epsilon will offer marketers agency services like creative, digital, data, direct marketing and strategy. Mr. Young had been managing director of the New York office of Rapp, part of the Omnicom Group.
Miscellany
Steven Slater, the former flight attendant for JetBlue Airways who became famous for his behavior on a flight arriving on Aug. 10 at Kennedy International Airport, will become a spokesman for Toktumi, San Francisco, and its mobile communication application, Line2. He will promote a contest, to run from Monday through Dec. 3, asking travelers to win prizes by texting their ''craziest'' flight stories to 222-222-2222. The contest is meant to highlight the in-flight texting ability provided by Line2 on aircraft equipped with Wi-Fi.
Wieden & Kennedy will open an office in Sao Paulo, Brazil, on Dec. 1. It will be the agency's seventh office outside its Portland, Ore., headquarters, joining Amsterdam, London, New Delhi, New York, Tokyo and Shanghai. The office will be led by Icaro Doria, executive creative director, who joins from Goodby, Silverstein & Partners, San Francisco, part of the Omnicom Group, where he had been a group creative director, and Andre Gustavo Soares, managing director, who joins from F/Nazca Saatchi & Saatchi, Sao Paulo, part of the Saatchi & Saatchi division of the Publicis Groupe, where he had been an account services director.
Bid4Spots.com, Encino, Calif., which conducts weekly online reverse auctions of commercial time on radio stations, is expanding to offer such auctions for display advertising on Web sites. The initial auction is scheduled for Jan. 6.
The United States fell to fourth place, from first place last year, in the 2010 Country Brand Index survey, released last week by FutureBrand, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, and BBC World News. Canada, which had been in second place last year, rose to first place. Australia rose to second, from fourth, and Switzerland, No. 11 last year, rose to fifth. The rest of the top 10: No. 6, Japan; No. 7, France; No. 8, Finland; No. 9, Britain; and No. 10, Sweden. The decline for the United States was attributed to factors that included ''disappointment with President Obama'' and the economy. Canada's gain was attributed largely to what was described as ''the positive effects'' of hosting the 2010 Winter Olympic Games.
GreenLink Networks, Wayne, Pa., acquired the PIC Media Group, Encino, Calif., which specializes in services like 10-second promotional commercials and closed-captioning sponsorships. Financial terms were not disclosed.
The London office of Euro RSCG Worldwide, part of Havas, and a sibling, Euro RSCG Biss Lancaster, which specializes in public relations, are being merged. The Biss Lancaster offices will be renamed Euro RSCG London PR, Euro RSCG Edinburgh PR and Euro RSCG Manchester PR.
ZelnickMedia, New York, completed its acquisition of Alloy, New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); AIRLINES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AUCTIONS (84%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); DIRECT MARKETING (78%); MARKETING STRATEGY (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); CELEBRITIES (74%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (72%); AIRPORTS (71%); TEXT MESSAGING (70%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%)

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (95%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (95%); DRAFTFCB INC (93%); BEIERSDORF AG (92%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (84%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (68%); FUTUREBRAND (58%); GOODBY SILVERSTEIN & PARTNERS (52%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (52%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (95%); OMC (NYSE) (95%); BEI (FRA) (92%); PUB (PAR) (84%); LHA (FRA) (84%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (95%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (95%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (95%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMBURG, GERMANY (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); OREGON, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (78%) GERMANY (94%); BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (78%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010



562 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 197 words

HEADLINE: Investing in Our Future

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Panel Offers Ways to Raise Cash to Cope With Climate'' (news article, Nov. 6): 
The United Nations report on financing options for climate change contributes a critical piece for the coming Cancun climate meeting.
With many nations strapped for money, the sources of financing must be denationalized. Carbon and airline taxes are worthwhile, but it is the tax on financial transactions -- the Tobin tax -- that may have the highest yield.
With bets on foreign exchange differences ballooning to $4 trillion daily, a minute tax would generate sufficient sums, while slowing the rapid, destabilizing, speculative transfers of capital across national borders. (The latter was the intent of the Nobel Prize-winning economist James Tobin.)
While most developing nations have contributed little to the climate problem, they can become part of the solution if given adequate money to purchase and manufacture climate-friendly technologies. A transfer of money from finance into clean industry would constitute a reasonable investment in our common future.
Paul R. Epstein Associate Director, Center for Health and the Global Environment Harvard Medical School Boston, Nov. 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010



563 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM WASHINGTON; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: An Initiative to Spread the Fiscal Pain

BYLINE: By ALBERT R. HUNT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Russell Long, of the famous Louisiana political dynasty, loved to tell how his Uncle Earl, the governor, advised a city slicker politician, hit by redistricting, how to successfully court rural voters.
He should rumple up the fancy white suit, loosen the tie, toss dirt on those shiny shoes, and reach into his pocket, bring out that big wad of bills and ''spread the joy.''
That is the mirror opposite of what the U.S. fiscal deficit commission, Congress and the White House should do if they want to seriously address long-term budget deficits. They have to spread the pain. 
The odds, in a politically polarized environment, are long; yet the co-chairmen of the commission, Erskine Bowles, a former Clinton White House chief of staff, and Alan Simpson, a former Republican Senator from Wyoming, started a constructive dialogue with a proposal that would slash spending, rein in Social Security and Medicare, boost the national gasoline tax and end many tax write-offs while lowering rates.
The Bowles-Simpson initiative, floated last week, predictably received a bipartisan assault. The U.S. political left charged it would balance the budget on the backs of the poor, and the political right claimed it was a sneaky vehicle to increase taxes to unacceptable levels.
There are important details still missing from the plan, which seeks to reduce the deficit to 2.2 percent of gross domestic product by 2015, from 9 percent today, and cut the overall debt to 60 percent of G.D.P. by 2024; under current projections, it would rise to 87 percent by 2020.
The 18-member deficit commission's report is due Dec. 1. Anything resembling the chairmen's proposal almost certainly won't win support from the necessary 14 votes to send it to Congress. It may be reshaped a little as a menu of policy options.
There are valid criticisms. Mr. Bowles, the Democratic chairman, compromised too much in what is likely to prove a futile attempt to win Republican support. The almost $4 trillion deficit reduction over the next decade would involve $3 in spending cuts for every $1 in higher revenue.
Economically and politically, a one-to-one ratio would be more in keeping with spreading the pain.
Critics say that such a policy ultimately would lead to taxes' rising to more than 21 percent of gross domestic product, the ceiling recommended by Bowles-Simpson. That would violate Hauser's Law, a formulation put forward by a San Francisco investment economist 17 years ago positing that regardless of the tax rates, revenue in post-World War II America traditionally remains around 19.5 percent of G.D.P.
Changing demographics have altered such considerations; today, tax revenue is only about 15 percent of G.D.P. Recently, at a private Brookings Institution conference, mainstream economists, ranging from moderately liberal to moderately conservative, were asked to estimate, under a reasonable long-term budget plan, what percentage revenue would ultimately take up: The responses ranged from 23 percent to 25 percent.
To its credit, the Bowles-Simpson recommendation treats Social Security changes separately from deficit reduction, and tries to make the system slightly more progressive.
By shaving benefits a little, however, hardships would ensue. Today the average beneficiary of Social Security gets around $1,100 a month, and for most seniors, that is the majority of their income.
The chairmen do propose raising the retirement age to 69, and increasing from the current $106,800 the base on which Social Security taxes are levied. Those changes would not take effect until 2050; again, in keeping with spreading the pain, it would have been better to expedite those changes and minimize benefit reductions.
The proposal to increase the gasoline tax by 15 cents to pay for transportation projects probably is too timid. A much bigger hike, with most of the revenue devoted to an infrastructure bank and some to deficit reduction, would make for better energy, economic and investment policy.
There are constructive elements to the controversial measure.
Generally, it seeks balance in health care that tries to reasonably take care of physicians' needs while further clamping down on costs.
Interestingly, these two knowledgeable and honest political figures don't even consider the notion of repealing the health care bill enacted this year. Instead, they seek to improve the cost containments, even raising the possibility of a public option.
It puts heretofore sacred cows, such as farm price supports, on the budget-cutting agenda. Mr. Simpson and Mr. Bowles insist that defense spending has to be part of any shared sacrifice; it will be interesting to see how a thoughtful member of the commission like David Cote, chief executive officer of New Jersey-based Honeywell International, a major defense contractor, reacts to this proposal.
It's also instructive that they suggest reducing all discretionary programs by $49 billion in the next fiscal year. This compares to the unrealistic House Republican pledge to slash $100 billion out of these programs.
The conventional wisdom is that the Bowles-Simpson plan is a fiscal fantasy, a realpolitik charade.
Still, it is instructive to recall the most analogous initiative in recent years: the 1985-1986 proposal to eliminate many tax preferences and lower the rates. When it was launched, it was pronounced dead on arrival.
During its year and a half, that was a familiar refrain.
''The obituary then was written multiple times,'' said former Senator Bill Bradley, a New Jersey Democrat who was an architect of the initiative. It became the landmark Tax Reform Act of 1986.
That was possible because of powerful bipartisan support, starting with President Ronald Reagan and his political strategists, Treasury Secretary James Baker and his deputy, Richard Darman, and important members of Congress, principally the House Ways and Means Committee chairman, Dan Rostenkowski; Mr. Bradley; and a Republican senator, Bob Packwood.
It is unlikely that a comparable figure will emerge today, especially on the Republican side. Last week, 13 Republican senators proposed amending the Constitution to require a balanced budget. The news media should demand that each lawmaker submit a plan specifically spelling out when and how they would achieve this. Anything less makes the proposal a fraud.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); REDISTRICTING (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); NEW ISSUES (73%); LIBERALISM (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); TAX INCREASES (72%); FUEL TAX (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

PERSON: ERSKINE BOWLES (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010



564 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 331 words

HEADLINE: LOOKING AHEAD

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data this week will include retail sales for October and business inventories for September (Monday); the Producer Price Index for October and industrial production and capacity utilization for October (Tuesday); the Consumer Price Index for October and housing starts for October (Wednesday); weekly jobless claims, the Philadelphia Fed manufacturing index, and leading economic indicators for October (Thursday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting results include Lowe's and Nordstrom (Monday); Abercrombie & Fitch, Home Depot, Saks, TJX and Wal-Mart Stores (Tuesday); BJ's Wholesale Club and Target (Wednesday); Sears, Limited Brands, Dell and Gap (Thursday); and AnnTaylor Stores (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES The Senate Banking Committee will vote on the nomination of Peter Diamond, above, to become a member of the Federal Reserve Board (Tuesday). A Food and Drug Administration panel will vote on whether to recommend approval of a lupus treatment developed by Human Genome Sciences and GlaxoSmithKline (Tuesday). General Motors is expected to price its initial public offering (Wednesday). A group of former legislators and federal officials will release a plan for reducing the national debt (Wednesday); the Debt Reduction Task Force of the Bipartisan Policy Center is led by former Senator Pete Domenici and Alice Rivlin, a former White House budget director and former vice chairwoman of the Federal Reserve.
OVERSEAS Euro Finance Week will take place Monday through Friday in Frankfurt. Participants will include Christine Lagarde, the French economic minster; Wolfgang Schauble, the German finance minister; and George Papaconstantinou, the Greek finance minister. The India Economic Summit will take place in New Delhi (Monday and Tuesday). Finance ministers from the euro zone will meet in Brussels (Tuesday). Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, will deliver a keynote speech at a European Central Bank conference on monetary policy (Friday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); EURO (86%); REAL ESTATE (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); EURO ZONE (79%); BUDGETS (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (74%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); HOUSING STARTS (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (69%); MONETARY POLICY (68%); APPROVALS (68%); LUPUS (53%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (52%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (64%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (58%); WAL-MART STORES INC (57%); ANN INC (57%); BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (57%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (56%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (84%); AFT (FRA) (84%); WMT (NYSE) (57%); ANN (NYSE) (57%); GSK (NYSE) (55%); GSK (LSE) (55%); BIOC (EGX) (55%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (57%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (57%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%); PETE DOMENICI (53%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (50%); WOLFGANG SCHAEUBLE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (71%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (66%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); INDIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); GREECE (71%); BELGIUM (70%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010



565 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Ante Is Rising In Game Industry

BYLINE: By ROBERT CYRAN and AGNES T. CRANE

 BODY:
The video game Call of Duty took the industry by storm last week. The $360 million first-day sales debut for the new installment, Call of Duty: Black Ops, set a record.
That was a heroic effort on the part of Activision, the game's producer. But development costs are skyrocketing as packaged game sales shrink. For companies that sell to hard-core game players, it's ever more about producing blockbusters and taking bigger risks.
Designing a game for a console in the early 1990s cost $50,000 to $400,000. Creating one today costs some $20 million, according to Deutsche Bank research. Make a game for multiple platforms (like Xbox, Wii and PlayStation), and the total cost is higher. Moreover, users pick their purchases carefully because packaged games are expensive. That drives the industry to produce megahits that lend themselves to sequels. 
A result is that small companies are finding it difficult to turn a profit, particularly if they allocate lots of capital to games that fizzle. Viacom plans to sell its Harmonix unit, which produced the so-so seller Rock Band, after writing down its value by $260 million. Viacom said it didn't have the expertise or scale to succeed, and other companies are likely to come to that conclusion as well.
True, game downloads are on the rise, even as retail sales dwindle. Over all, the video game industry is growing slightly, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers.
But start-ups like Zynga are capturing much of the new revenue. That's a problem for established companies, including Electronic Arts, Konami and Take Two Interactive.
At Electronic Arts, for example, traditional game sales fell 11 percent in the last quarter while digital sales rose 20 percent. Yet traditional game revenue is four times as large. The financial risks may end up tempting these companies into the mergers game.
A Subtle Subsidy
Tax deductibility of mortgage interest is almost as inviolable a part of the American dream as the Constitution. The co-chairmen of the White House deficit commission have boldly, and rightly, put this almost century-old sacred cow on the block.
Now they must persuade legislators to swing the ax. They could start by killing the myth that the subsidy is all about middle-class homeownership.
For starters, the deduction disproportionately helps those who can easily afford a home. According to the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center, the richest 20 percent of taxpayers reap 70 percent of the benefit of mortgage and property tax deductions. Currently, a married couple taking out a $1 million loan -- the current cap for the deduction -- see their taxes reduced by more than $15,000 a year at a 6 percent interest rate. A more typical middle-class couple with a $200,000 loan saves only a few hundred dollars more than they get anyway from an alternative standard deduction.
This example suggests that, at a minimum, the cap is currently too high. Moreover, it encourages home buyers to borrow as much as possible whether or not they really need to, inviting the excessive leverage that helped produce the financial crisis. The deduction even applies to second homes, an absurdity if the ostensible goal is to help ordinary families own their homes.
The deficit commission's leaders, Alan Simpson and Erskine Bowles, have offered a menu of ideas. One would eliminate this and other deductions completely while reducing tax rates. Another would keep the deduction in place, but cap eligible mortgages at $500,000 and exclude home equity loans and mortgages on second homes altogether.
The first option might seem politically impossible, but courageous lawmakers shouldn't dismiss the second. It would reduce the benefit diverted to the rich. And crucially, with more than 90 percent of new houses sold this year priced under $500,000, it would minimize the further shock to an already weak housing market.
In the longer term, lawmakers need to go further. Other countries like Britain achieve high rates of home ownership with little or no tax subsidy. The eventual goal should be to eliminate the deduction altogether. ROBERT CYRAN and AGNES T. CRANE
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Activision's latest Call of Duty game, Black Ops, was an instant best seller. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ACTIVISION) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER GAMES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (88%); TAX LAW (85%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (67%); PROPERTY TAX (67%); INTEREST RATES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); MORTGAGE LOANS (62%); MARRIAGE (60%)

COMPANY: ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (91%); ACTIVISION BLIZZARD INC (58%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (57%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); VIACOM INC (55%); TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE INC (54%)

TICKER: EA (NASDAQ) (91%); ATVI (NASDAQ) (58%); AIY (FRA) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%); VIA (NASDAQ) (55%); TTWO (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010



566 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday.
At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.12 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.16 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.10 percent.
The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week: 
MONDAY
South Carolina, $191.9 million of transportation revenue bonds. Competitive.
TUESDAY
Clark County, Nev., $157 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Dallas Independent School District, $1 billion of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Gwinnett County, Ga., $180.5 million of water and sewer revenue bonds. Competitive.
Knoxville, Tenn., $70 million of wastewater systems revenue bonds. Competitive.
Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority, $76.6 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
New Jersey Environmental Infrastructure Trust, $121.5 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
New Mexico, $146.2 million of severance tax revenue bonds. Competitive.
New York Local Government Assistance Corporation, $201.8 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
Prince George's, Md. $151.6 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
WEDNESDAY
Nebraska, $68 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Austin, Tex., $171.9 million of water and wastewater system revenue refinancing bonds. Barclays Capital.
Bellingham, Wash., Industrial Development Corporation, $50 million of environmental facilities industrial revenue bonds. Goldman Sachs.
Bellingham, Wash., Industrial Development Corporation, $61 million of environmental facilities industrial revenue bonds. Goldman Sachs.
Bexar County, Tex., $64 million of combined venue tax and motor vehicle tax bonds. Cabrera Capital Markets.
Buncombe County, N.C., $57.9 million of limited obligation bonds. Robert W. Baird.
California, $10 billion of revenue anticipation notes. J. P. Morgan Securities.
California, $2 billion of general purpose obligation bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
Colorado Health Facilities Authority, $66.5 million of hospital revenue bonds. Wells Fargo.
Cuyahoga County, Ohio, $355 million of economic development revenue bonds. Stifel Nicolaus.
Cuyahoga County, Ohio, $101.3 million of hospital revenue bonds. Bank of America.
Georgia Tech Athletic Association, $80 million of debt securities. Bank of America.
Harris County, Tex., Cultural Education Facilities Finance Corporation, $69.3 million of hospital revenue refinancing bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
Hawaii, $200 million of harbors system revenue bonds. Bank of America.
Houston, $498.8 million of public improvement refinancing bonds. Jefferies.
Hudson County, N.J., Improvement Authority, $65 million of revenue refinancing bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
Illinois Municipal Electric Agency, $138.8 million of power supply revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
King County, Wash., $59.6 million of limited tax general obligation bonds. Bank of America.
Leander, Tex., Independent School District., $52.6 million of debt securities. RBC Capital Markets.
Louisiana, $200 million of debt securities. Bank of America.
Maine Municipal Bond Bank, $50 million of grant anticipation bonds. Bank of America.
Massachusetts, $84 million of multifamily housing bonds. Bank of America.
Miami-Dade County, Fla., $78.8 million of capital asset acquisition bonds. Ramirez.
Minnesota Municipal Power Agency, $113.8 million of debt securities. RBC Capital Markets.
New Hanover, N.C., $96 million of hospital revenue refinancing bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
New York Municipal Bond Bank Agency, $50.7 million of recovery act bonds. Jefferies.
New York State Dormitory Authority, $320 million of school revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
North Texas Toll Way Authority, $541 million of revenue bonds. Bank of America.
Ohio, $77 million of development assistance bonds. Siebert Brandford Shank.
Richmond, Va., $61.8 million of general obligation public improvement bonds. Morgan Keegan.
Riverside County, Calif., Transportation Commission, $150 million of sales tax revenue bonds. Barclays Capital.
South Carolina Port Authority, $171.2 million of revenue bonds. Goldman Sachs.
Springfield, Ill., School District, $64.1 million of general obligation bonds. Robert W. Baird.
Texas Workforce Commission, $1 billion of unemployment obligation bonds. Bank of America.
Tucson Unified School District, $63.2 million of school refinancing bonds. Piper Jaffray.
Waco, Tex., Education Finance Corporation, $115 million of revenue and refinancing bonds. Barclays Capital.
Washington State Convention Center Public Facilities District, $321 million of lodging tax bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
Washington State Health Care Facilities Authority, $250 million of health revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
Western Minnesota Municipal Power Agency, $139 million of power supply revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
Whiting, Ind., $60 million of environmental facilities revenue bonds. Goldman Sachs.
Wisconsin Health and Educational Facilities, $380 million of health care debt securities. Bank of America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (94%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (89%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (88%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); SCHOOL BONDS (74%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); TAX LAW (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); HOSPITALS (66%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (53%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (82%); WELLS FARGO & CO (81%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (54%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (51%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (51%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); BAC (NYSE) (82%); BAC (LSE) (82%); 8648 (TSE) (82%); WFC (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (56%) OHIO, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010



567 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; GREEN COLUMN; Pg. 

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: A Fight for a Name -- and Survival -- in Solar Market

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPH STEITZ

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- Sprucing up your company profile by hiring a popular soccer player and a former international television celebrity to star in advertisements may be run of the mill marketing for some. For a solar company, it may give the edge needed to survive in a fiercely competitive and fast-changing environment.
SolarWorld of Germany, a maker of solar modules, throws a lot of resources at building its brand when selling its products outside of its domestic market, where television ads have helped it to become a major market player. 
After running ads this year with Lukas Podolski -- a member of the German national soccer team -- the company started a campaign in the United States with an unlikely figure: Larry Hagman -- whose fictional character in the television show ''Dallas'' was the epitome of a greedy, scheming oil tycoon -- is singing the praises of green energy for SolarWorld.
Such efforts lie at the heart of a bigger battle as SolarWorld, and German peers like Q-Cells, take on fierce international competition. ''This is one way of fighting back the brutal Asian competition,'' said Philipp Bumm, an analyst at Cheuvreux in Frankfurt.
The $39 billion solar industry is no exception to a broad trend in which lower cost Asian rivals eat away at the market shares of European and U.S. companies that usually operate with higher labor costs.
Asian makers own about half of the German market for solar modules, by far the world's biggest, as they offer products at a discount of 10 percent to 20, percent compared with their European peers.
Large subsidies, so called feed-in tariffs, have made Germany, which has the biggest European economy, the world's largest solar market, creating 83,000 jobs in the eastern part of the country, which has otherwise suffered an exodus of young, educated people.
But the German government under Chancellor Angela Merkel has cut support to the sector, a factor that is requiring the industry to become more competitive.
With the German market expected to dwindle next year -- the solar industry association E.P.I.A. estimated that it could drop to 3 gigawatts from an expected 8 gigawatts this year -- companies have to seek growth elsewhere to maintain employment.
German makers of solar modules will have to export more and to rely on their image when they expand their international presence. That works for some industries. The question is whether it will work for the solar sector.
''It's a fair question to ask, Why would something that works with cars not work with solar,'' said Ben Lynch, analyst at Bryan, Garnier & Co. in London, pointing to the booming German car industry, which features brand names like Porsche, BMW and Mercedes.
Germany's carmakers enjoy an excellent reputation, charge high prices for high quality around the world and are growing rapidly in emerging markets like China and India.
''Exporting the price premium will be tougher,'' Holger Frey, fund manager at DWS, the asset management arm of Deutsche Bank, said of solar modules. ''Asian competitors are also working on building a brand.'' He pointed to the Chinese module maker Yingli, which ran ads during the soccer World Cup this year.
Mr. Frey added, however, that charging a premium might still work in some growing markets like France, the Czech Republic and the United States -- which E.P.I.A. says could overtake Germany as the world's largest solar market in 2014.
''I'm sure that SolarWorld will be able to export its premium to the U.S. and partly does so already,'' said Mr. Bumm, the Cheuvreux analyst.
SolarWorld has set up production sites in Oregon and California, the largest U.S. solar market, while its German competitor Solon is producing modules in Arizona.
Success of the premium strategy also hinges on whether these markets will provide enough growth to offset the feared decline in Germany, something that is hard to predict as regulatory changes in these countries could dampen growth next year and beyond.
HSBC, for example, estimates that the U.S. market could account for 11.4 percent next year, up from an expected 7 percent this year. But the brokerage's analysts expect the Czech market to collapse to 200 megawatts in 2011, from 1.2 gigawatts this year: a share of less than 2 percent.
''I think it'll be difficult to do solely based on nationality. 'Made in Germany' alone does not command a premium,'' said Philippe de Weck, fund manager at Pictet & Cie in Geneva. ''In the end, it's about quality and if I look at the top 10 makers, I don't see any problems in terms of quality.''
In its 2009 quality ranking, which is based on module efficiency, the industry publication Photon put SolarWorld products first, followed by those manufactured by the U.S. world leader First Solar. U.S.-listed Solarfun, the first Chinese player on the list, ranks 13th.
In Photon's test for the month of July 2010 -- just a snapshot and not an indicator for the whole year -- Solarfun kept its ranking, while SolarWorld came in 14th.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); TRENDS (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); SOCCER (78%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (78%); BRANDING (77%); MARKET SHARE (77%); AUTOMAKERS (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (64%)

COMPANY: SOLARWORLD AG (92%)

TICKER: SWV (FRA) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (92%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (67%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (91%) GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010



568 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; CAMPAIGN SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1368 words

HEADLINE: Enticing Marketers to an Audience That Is Engaged and Spending

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
The ballot proposition in California to legalize marijuana may have lost, but a campaign that begins this week is proclaiming the benefits of being ''stoned and dangerous.''
The campaign is neither for nor against pot. Rather, the ads, for Brides magazine, take a provocative tack in seeking to sell the decision-makers at media agencies on the benefits of the bridal market for their advertiser clients.
''Stoned'' is the trade campaign's cheeky description of women who are engaged to be married. To underline the point, the ''o'' in ''stoned'' is shaped like an engagement ring with an oversize diamond.
And such women are ''dangerous,'' the ads assert, when it comes to spending freely -- not only on their weddings, but also afterward, in categories like automobiles, electronics, financial services, home goods and travel. 
The campaign, with a thrifty budget estimated at $150,000, is being created internally at Brides, which is part of Conde Nast Publications in New York, a unit of Advance Publications. Woods Witt Dealy & Sons in New York worked on the Web site that is the centerpiece of the campaign; visitors to the site can create avatars to play a game to spend ''bridal bling'' and then share the results with friends or co-workers in social media like Facebook.
''Suit up and spend dangerously,'' the home page of the site says, adding: ''Weddings mean new beginnings. Sure, there's the dress, but what about a new car? Or a new home -- and everything that goes in it? Get ready to start spending, like only a bride can.''
There will be print, outdoor and online ads to drive traffic to stonedanddangerous.com. Some, which look like personal ads in a newspaper, carry the headline ''Getting married, but still shopping around.'' Others, evoking a certain pop diva, ask, ''Are you gaga?''
Events will also be part of the campaign, among them the arrival of troupes of ''brides'' -- actually, groups of women wearing wedding gowns -- at stores near the offices of media agencies. Video clips of those stunts will be uploaded to YouTube.
The campaign comes a bit more than a year after Conde Nast announced that it would close two of its bridal magazines, Elegant Bride and Modern Bride, leaving Brides as the company's sole entry in the field. At the same time, the frequency of Brides was doubled to 12 times a year.
With twice as many issues to publish as previously, executives at Brides have stepped up their efforts to increase revenue in ad categories outside the traditional realm of bridal magazines, like sellers of wedding gowns, jewelers, makers of beauty products and honeymoon destinations.
''The magazine does beautifully in the endemic categories,'' says Carolyn Kremins, vice president and publisher of Brides, but ''close to half my readers are going to buy a car in the next year and I have no auto advertising.''
What Brides does have is ''a consumer on steroids, the uber-consumer,'' she adds, a reader who ''once she's 'stoned' becomes a dangerous spender.''
Ms. Kremins acknowledges how incongruous it seems to be celebrating consumption in a time of economic woes, when many consumers are playing down unbridled spending in favor of thrift.
''We have to knock down a wall'' in trying to reach the planners and buyers at the media agencies, she says, because ''most media people, unless they're engaged or getting married, don't care about the bridal market.''
''My mission is to make them care,'' she adds, ''and the way to get the attention of these fragmented, overwhelmed media people is to get them to interact with the brand in a fun way.''
The Web site, and the ads promoting it, do not indicate that Brides is behind the effort. ''You don't know it's Brides until 'the big reveal,' '' Ms. Kremins says, when text starts to appear that describes the spending habits of the readers of Brides.
And to add another teaspoon of sugar to help the sales pitch go down, there is also a sweepstakes that the media agencies employees can enter. The prize is -- in keeping with the message of the campaign -- a shopping spree, which is valued at $2,500.
''We did some canvassing of the agency world to see what appeals to them,'' says Amy Newman, associate publisher for marketing of Brides.
Among the findings, she lists ''things that are provocative, things that are part of popular culture, things that are funny and winning prizes.''
Ms. Newman takes issue with the suggestion that ''Stoned and dangerous'' implies the Brides reader is out of control when it comes to shopping before or after she gets married.
''I don't think we're saying she's spending recklessly,'' Ms. Newman says. ''She's spending on the things that are most important in her life.''
''It's like 'Have rock, will shop,' '' she adds, laughing, referring to the reader's engagement ring.
Ms. Kremins puts it this way: ''To ignore Brides is to ignore a direct line to the consumer who is out there in the market, spending. Whether you're a liquor or automotive or travel, this woman is evaluating every brand during this life stage. Her emotional aperture is open.''
That is the lesson being taught to players of the game on stonedanddangerous.com. An example of the lighthearted nature of the Web site is the choice of bridal avatars, which come in three varieties: the Traditional, the Gaga and the Goth.
The executives at Brides were ''a great partner because they were looking to push the envelope and were not so sacrosanct about their brand,'' says Phyllis Dealy, partner and director for account services at Woods Witt Dealy.
They hope that the game will be ''funny enough to get it to that pass-along state,'' she adds, so those who play it will share the results and help Brides disseminate the message of how valuable it can be ''to talk to the bride-to-be about your brand'' between her engagement and her wedding.
''We like to say we do advertising in the age of social media,'' Ms. Dealy says. ''It starts with a killer idea that really engages people.''
''Engages'' as in absorbing and compelling, that is, not as in putting a ring on it.
The print ads in the campaign will appear in Metro, the free daily newspaper, and in the Meet Market pages of the Sunday edition of The New York Post, which are devoted to dating and relationships.
The online ads will appear on Web sites and blogs like Daily Intel, Folio, Media Daily News and SRDS. They will also run on dating Web sites, Ms. Kremins said, like jdate.com, plentyoffish.com and spark.com.
Targeted ads will also appear on Facebook, she adds, to be placed on profiles pages that include the names of media agencies like MediaVest, OMD and PHD.
The outdoor ads will consist of two billboards on highways in metropolitan Detroit that are, presumably, commuter routes for employees of local media agencies, along with a mobile billboard in Chicago in front of the Starcom media agency.
The events featuring the make-believe brides will be held around media agencies in Chicago and New York. They could take place in outlets of chains like Best Buy, Duane Reade and Starbucks, Ms. Kremins says, as well as at bank branches.
The mock brides will carry tote bags bearing the words ''Getting married, but still shopping around,'' she adds, and hand out cards that resemble credit cards to promote visiting the Web site and entering the sweepstakes.
In lieu of account numbers, the cards will bear these letters: ''IMGO ING TOS PEND ALOT'' -- celebrating the shopping proclivities of the readers of Brides.
Brides joins a lengthening list of magazines and newspapers that are running trade campaigns to stimulate sales of ad pages. Some say they believe such campaigns are a sign of a recovering ad market in that publishers would not be spending on them if there was not a good chance they would produce results.
Other examples include another Conde Nast magazine, Glamour; Cosmopolitan, owned by the Hearst Magazines unit of the Hearst Corporation; Bloomberg Markets, part of Bloomberg L.P.; The New York Times; and The Wall Street Journal, owned by the Dow Jones division of the News Corporation.
If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); CANNABIS (90%); WEDDING & NEWLYWEDS MARKET (89%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (89%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (87%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); DECRIMINALIZATION (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (77%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (77%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (77%); MARRIAGE (77%); FINE JEWELRY (74%); JEWELRY (74%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (73%); SOCIAL MEDIA (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); WEB SITES (66%)

COMPANY: CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC (55%); FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (87%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2010



569 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: China Surges Past India as Top Home of Foreign Students

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
The number of Chinese students studying in the United States surged 30 percent in the 2009-10 academic year, making China the top country of origin for international students, according to ''Open Doors,'' the Institute of International Education's annual report.
The report found that a record high of 690,923 international students came to the United States last year -- nearly 128,000 of them, or more than 18 percent, from China. Over all, the number of international students at colleges and universities in the United States increased 3 percent for the 2009-10 academic year. 
India, which in recent years had been in the top spot, increased its numbers only slightly, to 104,897 last academic year.
''The number of students from China is booming, because of that booming Chinese economy,'' said Peggy Blumenthal, executive vice president of the institute. ''But India, which also has a booming economy, is only up 1.6 percent. I think one factor is the great number of Chinese families with disposable income, two working parents and only one child, and a determination to invest their money to make sure that child receives the best education possible.''
David B. Austell, director of the Office for International Students and Scholars at New York University, said the Chinese undergraduates came primarily from the large urban areas on China's coast. Because they are not eligible for the same financial aid as Americans and usually pay full tuition, he said, their growing presence is an indicator of just how many Chinese families are financially strong.
At the University of Southern California, Tony Tambascia, executive director of the Office of International Services, said the number of Chinese students grew substantially last year, but surpassed the number of Indian students for the first time just this fall.
''We're getting more Chinese master's students, and dramatically more freshmen,'' he said.
According to the report, which is supported by the State Department, the number of students coming to the United States from Saudi Arabia increased almost 25 percent last year, to 15,810, reflecting the Saudi government's generous aid for studies abroad.
But not all countries sent more students to the United States last year. The number coming from Japan declined 15 percent, and Mexico, Indonesia and Kenya each sent 7 percent to 9 percent fewer students than in the previous year.
Still, Allan Goodman, president of the institute, said the United States continued to host more international students than any other country. And according to the Commerce Department, such students contribute nearly $20 billion to the economy.
While the majority of Chinese students in the United States are still graduate students, the recent growth has been strongest among undergraduates.
Last year, there were 39,921 Chinese undergraduates studying in the United States, a 50 percent increase from the previous year, and more than four times as many as five years earlier.
The Indian experience has been quite different; that country sent 15,192 undergraduates last year, fewer than five years earlier. And the number of Indians coming to the United States for graduate study dropped by almost 4 percent last year
''The educational-advising people say that the job market is so hot in places like Mumbai and Bangalore that students thinking about grad school decide it's not worth it,'' Ms. Blumenthal said, ''since they can just go out and get a good engineering job.''
As in past years, the report found that California, with 94,279 international students, hosts far more students from abroad than any other state. The University of Southern California is the institution with the most international students, 7,987 last year.
The report also tracks Americans studying abroad, although those numbers come from a year earlier. In the 2008-9 academic year, 260,327 American students studied abroad, down slightly from 262,416 the previous year.
While Britain, Italy, Spain and France remain the leading destinations, the study found, all four hosted fewer students, with the declines ranging from 2.5 percent to 10.8 percent.
But nontraditional destinations outside Europe gained popularity. Chile, Peru and South Korea all had increases of more than 26 percent, and China, Australia, Costa Rica, Japan, Argentina, South Africa, Ecuador, Brazil and New Zealand all hosted more American students than in the previous year.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 18, 2010

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Monday about a report by the Institute of International Education on the number of foreign students studying in the United States referred incorrectly to the significance of China's current ranking among countries that send the most students to the United States. China was the top country of origin for international students from the academic year 1998-99 until 2001-2002. The 2009-10 academic year was not the first time China was ranked No. 1.

GRAPHIC: CHART: From China, to Study: The number of college students from China surged this year. (Source: Institute of International Education) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN STUDENTS (94%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (89%); FAMILY (88%); TUITION FEES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (98%); INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); KENYA (79%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



570 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: EBay Promises Christmas Freakouts

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
A COMEDIAN intended to personify the target audience for a big holiday campaign -- women who are choosy, in a delightfully daffy way, about the gifts they give family and friends -- will put the B in ''eBay'' for the Christmas shopping season.
The spokeswoman is Samantha Bee, best known as a mock news correspondent on ''The Daily Show With Jon Stewart.'' Ms. Bee is the star of a campaign that eBay is describing as its largest effort in social media. 
The campaign, which carries the theme ''Love to give,'' has a budget estimated at $15 million to $18 million. It is being created by Mekanism in San Francisco, which specializes in digital work.
The centerpiece of the campaign is a six-week Web series, featuring Ms. Bee, called ''Unwrap Attack,'' which is inspired by the so-called Christmas gift freakout videos on YouTube. Ms. Bee presents fanciful examples of those videos, in which gift recipients shriek, scream and go gaga as they open presents, and encourages eBay customers to submit their own versions at lovetogive.ebay.com.
There is also an application on the eBay Facebook page (facebook.com/eBay) named the Unwrap Attack Creator, which offers users a choice of over-the-top reactions to gifts they receive like ''tears of joy'' and ''bouncing off the walls.''
The light-hearted campaign is an example of social commerce or social shopping, which brings together networking with buying online. Who better to devote a campaign to social commerce than the Web site that proclaims itself the world's largest online marketplace?
Social shopping is becoming ''a driving force for e-commerce,'' said Christopher Payne, vice president for the North American operations of eBay in San Jose, Calif., particularly among the customer that the company calls ''our female enthusiast shopper, who is laser-focused on giving not just a me-too gift but a gift that's something unique, just right for the recipient.''
Those customers ''like to hunt for an item, like to talk about it and like to share'' the results, Mr. Payne said, and among them ''social channels have become dominant.''
''We're definitely trying to tap into the same emotional insight,'' he added, by concentrating the campaign in the social media favored by the target audience.
Although the Christmas campaign last year also had a presence in digital media, it ran predominantly in traditional media like television, print and outdoor. That campaign, created by Goodby, Silverstein & Partners in San Francisco, part of the Omnicom Group, carried the theme ''Come to think of it, eBay.''
The television commercials for holiday 2009 were devoted to shoppers offering humorous riffs on merchandise they bought on eBay, like snowboards and clothing. The video elements of the 2010 campaign are in the form of the webisodes with Ms. Bee rather than TV spots.
EBay executives ''liked the nontraditional approach we pitched to them,'' said Tommy Means, executive creative director at Mekanism, especially the emphasis on social media, which he praised as ''so much more of a credible way to advertise'' because of its reliance on ''the power of word of mouth.''
''There can be a $100 million movie with Angelina Jolie and a wonderful director, but if your best friend tells you it stinks, you're not going to see it,'' Mr. Means said.
At the same time, he added, ''a story well told, delivered in a way that's fun, easy to consume, credible and told to the right people, will take off on its own.''
The goal of the campaign is to convince ''this 40-year-old eBay enthusiast, this emotional gifter, to reconsider eBay'' for holiday shopping, Mr. Means said, as she tries ''to do anything, everything, to knock it out of the park and make Christmas great for everybody.''
In seeking to answer ''what makes her do it, what's the payoff,'' Mr. Means said, ''I went on YouTube and typed in 'Christmas morning freakout' and found these videos of people losing their minds opening the perfect gift.''
So the campaign tells the dedicated gift-hunter that ''if you want to create an 'unwrap attack' for every person on your list,'' he added, ''you can only go to eBay to do that'' rather than eBay competitors like Amazon.com, BestBuy.com or Walmart.com.
According to Mr. Payne, eBay is ''cautiously optimistic'' about the coming Christmas shopping season, although, he added, ''the hill is yet to be climbed.''
''No question, the mood is better than two years ago,'' Mr. Payne said. ''Holy cow.''
To stimulate demand as much as possible, the campaign will have elements encouraging consumers to shop eBay on mobile devices, he added, using a mobile Web site (mobile.ebay.com) or Android and iPhone apps.
In both 2008 and 2009, according to data from comScore, the peak for unique monthly visitors to eBay came in December. The total for last December, 80.3 million, was the highest for eBay since April 2007 -- before the economy faltered -- when there were 80.9 million unique visitors, comScore reported.
EBay spent $89.3 million to advertise in major media last year, according to data from the Kantar Media unit of WPP, up 17.7 percent from the $75.9 million spent in 2008 but down 37.1 percent from the $142 million spent in 2007.
The first webisode with Ms. Bee was uploaded to eBay on Oct. 29. The second is to go live on Monday, with the rest to follow on Thursday, Nov. 23, Nov. 30 and Dec. 7.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Samantha Bee stars in Web videos for eBay that showcase ''unwrap attacks'': gifts well received. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); SOCIAL COMMERCE (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); BUDGETS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (69%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%)

COMPANY: EBAY INC (94%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (83%); FACEBOOK INC (55%); GOODBY SILVERSTEIN & PARTNERS (50%)

TICKER: EBAY (NASDAQ) (94%); OMC (NYSE) (83%); FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (94%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (94%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (83%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%)

PERSON: JON STEWART (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (87%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010



571 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: Obama and Asia-Pacific Leaders Pledge to Seek Freer Trade

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER and SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
YOKOHAMA, Japan -- President Obama and other Asia-Pacific leaders wrapped up a two-day meeting on Sunday with sweeping pledges to rectify global economic imbalances and move toward creating a regional free-trade zone, but with few concrete gains. 
For Mr. Obama, it was also the end of a 10-day diplomatic and economic journey through Asia that yielded mixed results, ranging from his warm reception in India to criticism for failing to finalize a free-trade pact with South Korea. He spent his last day meeting with President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia and then visiting a colossal copper Buddha that he had seen as a 6-year-old, before heading for Washington to confront the lame-duck Congress on Monday.
Issuing what they called the ''Yokohama Vision,'' Mr. Obama and leaders of 20 other nations and territories in the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum agreed to take steps toward creating a free-trade zone in the Asia-Pacific region, but set no timetable. In their joint declaration, the leaders cited as a possible starting point the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a free-trade agreement that currently includes four small nations -- Brunei, Chile, New Zealand and Singapore -- but that five other nations, including the United States, are in talks to join.
The leaders, whose nations account for more than half of global economic activity, also agreed to remove protectionist measures put in place during the current global economic crisis and to avoid sudden, sharp moves in foreign exchange markets.
In Sunday's meeting with Mr. Medvedev, Mr. Obama told him that his ''top priority'' on foreign policy for the Congressional session is ratification of the two countries' new arms control treaty, which is stalled in the Senate.
The president also told the Russian leader that he was committed to lifting cold war-era trade restrictions, a move that would allow Russia to join the World Trade Organization. Senior American officials said afterward that the private meeting touched on a range of issues, from Afghanistan to human rights. Mr. Obama told Mr. Medvedev that he was ''very pleased'' with the Russian leader's ''strong'' statement condemning the beating of a journalist in Moscow. The two leaders will meet again this week at the NATO summit meeting in Lisbon, and Mr. Obama told Mr. Medvedev that he wanted talk further about Afghanistan and missile defense.
After leaving Yokohama, the president flew by helicopter to Kamakura, the site of Kamakura Daibutsu, or the Great Buddha of Kamakura. The giant statue, which experts believe dates to 1252, has 656 coils of hair and weighs 121 tons. ''It is wonderful to return to this great treasure of Japanese culture,'' he wrote in the guest book. ''Its beauty has stayed with me for many years.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); COLD WAR (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (71%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (62%); WRITERS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%) KANTO, JAPAN (92%) ASIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); INDIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010



572 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: For Emanuel, Path to Chicago Mayor Is Not Without Obstacles

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- Rahm Emanuel pulled off his suit jacket and led a parade of television cameras down 26th Street the other day, carrying himself -- with his confident wave to passing cars and his unswerving message for the microphones -- every bit like this city's next mayor, and not so unlike its current one.
The possibility seems closer than ever. Since Mr. Emanuel gave up his job as White House chief of staff last month, the flood of people talking about running to succeed Mayor Richard M. Daley, who is retiring, has slowed to a trickle.
And on Monday, when Mr. Emanuel intends to file tens of thousands of signatures on petitions to make his bid official, some of what once seemed an endless list of possible candidates -- including a sheriff, several state and federal lawmakers and numerous aldermen -- will not. That is in part, many here suspect, out of a sense (perhaps a memory?) of what a run against Mr. Emanuel might feel like. 
Some leading members of Chicago's business establishment have lined up behind Mr. Emanuel, and, come Monday evening, Glenn F. Tilton, the chairman of United Continental Holdings, the combined airline company whose corporate headquarters are here, will be among the hosts of a fund-raiser for him.
Still, it is also certain that the election in February, the first competitive one this city has had in decades, will not be without obstacles for Mr. Emanuel. In case his time at the White House made him hazy, Mr. Emanuel has gotten some swift reminders of what Chicago politics looks like: gritty, petty, racially complicated and never ever dull.
Even as Mr. Emanuel wandered along 26th Street, in a mostly Latino neighborhood known as Little Village, someone yelled the name of an opponent -- ''Miguel del Valle!'' -- from an open car window. Someone else threw an egg, which landed with a splat not far from Mr. Emanuel, who left within minutes.
There is, of course, no incumbent in the race, but other candidates, too, are taking unambiguous aim at Mr. Emanuel. Carol Moseley Braun, a former senator who is expected to run, says Mr. Emanuel ''cut and ran after engineering the biggest Democratic Party political loss in 27 years,'' leaving President Obama ''holding the bag.''
And Gery Chico, a former chief of staff to Mr. Daley, has mocked Mr. Emanuel for holding a fund-raiser in Hollywood, an event reportedly attended by people like the screenwriter Aaron Sorkin.
And then there is the matter of the man who has come to be known here as ''the tenant'' -- a man who rented Mr. Emanuel's Chicago home when Mr. Emanuel went to Washington, refused to move out when Mr. Emanuel suddenly came home and is now asserting, in all seriousness, that he, Rob Halpin, may run for mayor himself.
All the talk of Mr. Halpin, a real estate developer who has said that his thoughts about being mayor have nothing whatsoever to do with Mr. Emanuel, has only served to underscore legal questions that Mr. Emanuel's critics hope to raise about whether he meets the residency requirement to run in the first place.
''Here's the deal,'' Mr. Emanuel said gruffly, when asked about Mr. Halpin while he was trying to lay out his vision for Chicago's economic development before reporters. ''My job, O.K., is to focus on what I heard at Ford Motor Company, is to focus on what I heard here in Little Village, to focus on what I heard at Freedman Seating Company -- how to create jobs, how to help the city grow economically so people can raise a family, educate their children, start a business or expand a business or get a job in one of those businesses.''
Of Mr. Halpin, Mr. Emanuel went on, ''I'm not going to get involved in or comment on what I basically consider political games and tricks.''
This is anything but an easy time to be the mayor of Chicago. The city has struggled to hold on to convention business, has seen its credit rating downgraded, has used proceeds from privatization deals to balance its budgets, and may face annual budget shortfalls of more than $1 billion, including unfunded pension obligations.
But in Mr. Emanuel, who grew up in the Chicago area, worked on political campaigns here and represented a North Side district in the House of Representatives, voters seem to sense a familiar brand. For more than 20 years, Mayor Daley, like his father, Richard J., before him, has run City Hall with a firm fist (and little patience for those who did not see things his way). To some, Mr. Emanuel's style -- certain, relentless, intimidating -- looks like a familiar old slipper.
Mr. Emanuel -- who announced on Saturday what was by then obvious, that he really is running -- is promising major policy addresses on education, crime and city finances in the coming months, and has already said that this is no time to ''even talk about raising taxes.'' He said he wants to change the culture of city government so it is no longer an ''insider's game,'' to phase out the so-called ''head tax'' that companies pay on each employee and to reduce no-bid contracts.
Juan Rangel, a longtime political supporter of Mr. Daley, likened Mr. Emanuel to a famous former Chicago Bears player and coach, saying he is one of the ''Mike Ditkas'' of the world, someone whose sense of ''purpose and focus,'' like Mr. Daley's, would always get him to the crux of matters. ''It's a meat and potatoes kind of town,'' Mr. Rangel said.
But divisions over race, ethnicity and geography are already emerging. For the moment, Mr. Emanuel is the only white candidate who has formally announced his candidacy, and people like Mr. Rangel, who is Latino and leads the United Neighborhood Organization, a prominent Hispanic group, has been criticized for his support of Mr. Emanuel over two Latino candidates.
A group of African-American leaders, meanwhile, met over a period of weeks to pick a ''consensus candidate'' so their voting power would not be split (and diluted) as it had been years ago after the death of Harold Washington, the city's first black mayor. A week ago, the group emerged naming Danny K. Davis, a longtime Democratic congressman, but the notion of consensus seemed shaky and at least two other black candidates are expected to run.
There is a factor that cannot be measured, too: how much Mr. Obama's words will affect voters in his hometown, particularly African-Americans. As Mr. Emanuel was leaving Washington, Mr. Obama praised him as someone who would be a ''terrific'' mayor -- a comment that some here wrote off as a polite sendoff from a boss, but that others have lamented as sending a louder message to Chicago, Mr. Davis said.
''There are others,'' Mr. Davis said, ''who take the position that if he had done such a great job, why did we lose all these seats?''
In the latest chapter of political gamesmanship here, some suggested last week that Alexi Giannoulias, the state treasurer who lost a bid this month for the Senate seat vacated by Mr. Obama, was being urged to join the mayor's race. By Friday, aides to Mr. Giannoulias dismissed the notion. Then it was on to the next sport.
Monday is the first day that candidates are allowed to file their petitions to run for mayor, and some said they planned to gather outside the downtown Election Board office before dawn. The reward for those in line at opening time, 9 a.m.? A chance to compete in a lottery that will decide the order of their names on the ballot.
Appearing first, the thinking here goes, might make all the difference.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Emanuel blew a kiss to his parents on Saturday as he officially announced his candidacy for mayor of Chicago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TANNEN MAURY/E.P.A.) (A12)
Rahm Emanuel, President Obama's former chief of staff, with his family after announcing his candidacy for mayor of Chicago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN GRESS/GETTY IMAGES)
 Representative Danny K. Davis, an opponent, suggests that Democratic midterm losses may be an issue in the campaign. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL BEATY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); FUNDRAISING (76%); PETITIONS (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); POLITICS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); AIRLINES (51%)

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (55%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (93%); DANNY K DAVIS (55%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); GLENN TILTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010



573 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3276 words

HEADLINE: BETTING ON JUSTICE: Putting Money on Lawsuits, Investors Share in the Payouts

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM. 
This project was initiated by the Center for Public Integrity, a nonprofit investigative news organization in Washington. It is based on reporting by Ben Hallman of the center and Binyamin Appelbaum of The Times, and was written by Mr. Appelbaum.

 BODY:
Large banks, hedge funds and private investors hungry for new and lucrative opportunities are bankrolling other people's lawsuits, pumping hundreds of millions of dollars into medical malpractice claims, divorce battles and class actions against corporations -- all in the hope of sharing in the potential winnings.
The loans are propelling large and prominent cases. Lenders including Counsel Financial, a Buffalo company financed by Citigroup, provided $35 million for the lawsuits brought by ground zero workers that were settled tentatively in June for $712.5 million. The lenders earned about $11 million.
Most investments are in the smaller cases that fill court dockets. Ardec Funding, a New York lender backed by a hedge fund, lent $45,000 in June to a Manhattan lawyer hired by the parents of a baby brain-damaged at birth. The lawyer hired two doctors, a physical therapist and an economist to testify at a July trial. The jury ordered the delivering doctor and hospital to pay the baby $510,000. Ardec is collecting interest at an annual rate of 24 percent, or $900 a month, until the award is paid. 
Total investments in lawsuits at any given time now exceed $1 billion, several industry participants estimated. Although no figures are available on the number of lawsuits supported by lenders, public records from one state, New York, show that over the last decade, more than 250 law firms borrowed on pending cases, often repeatedly.
The rise of lending to plaintiffs and their lawyers is a result of the high cost of litigation. Pursuing a civil action in federal court costs an average of $15,000, the Federal Judicial Center reported last year. Cases involving scientific evidence, like medical malpractice claims, often cost more than $100,000. Some people cannot afford to pursue claims; others are overwhelmed by corporate defendants with deeper pockets.
A review by The New York Times and the Center for Public Integrity shows that the inflow of money is giving more people a day in court and arming them with well-paid experts and elaborate evidence. It is helping to ensure that cases are decided by merit rather than resources, echoing and expanding a shift a century ago when lawyers started fronting money for clients' lawsuits.
But the review shows that borrowed money also is fueling abuses, including cases initiated and controlled by investors. A Florida judge in December ordered an investment banker who orchestrated a shareholder lawsuit against Fresh Del Monte Produce to repay the company's legal expenses, ruling that the case should not have reached trial.
Such financing also drains money from plaintiffs. Interest rates on lawsuit loans generally exceed 15 percent a year, and most states allow lawyers that borrow to bill clients for the interest payments. The cost can exceed the benefits of winning. A woman injured in a 1995 car accident outside Philadelphia borrowed money for a suit, as did her lawyer. By the time she won $169,125 in 2003, the lenders were owed $221,000.
Lawyers are not required to tell clients that they have borrowed money, so the client may be unaware that there is financial pressure to resolve cases quickly. Lenders also seek detailed information about cases, which can jeopardize client confidentiality. A federal judge in Delaware ruled in June that a company suing Facebook for patent infringement had to show Facebook documents that its lawyer had shared with a lender.
Citing these issues, critics of lending for lawsuits say the practice should be banned.
''It sends shivers down the spines of general counsels all across the globe,'' said Lisa A. Rickard of the Institute for Legal Reform, an arm of the United States Chamber of Commerce.
But proponents, who argue that people often need help to fight corporations, have won a series of victories in state courts and legislatures in recent years, overturning old laws that prohibited investments in lawsuits.
''If you want to use the civil justice system, you have to have money,'' said Alan Zimmerman, who founded one of the first litigation finance companies in 1994, in San Francisco, now called the LawFinance Group. ''If there's less money, you'd have less litigation. But then you'd also have less justice.''
A Case in Point
A legal battle between residents of a faded Texas factory town and the BNSF Railway, the nation's second-largest railroad company, highlights what some see as the benefits and others see as the excesses of lawsuits driven by borrowed money.
Somerville, Tex., 80 miles northwest of Houston, has hosted the noxious work of treating wood to make railroad ties for more than a century. The railroad runs through the town, dividing a small grid of residential streets from the lumber yard and treatment plant where stacks of wood are soaked in preservatives.
Dennis L. Krueger crossed the tracks to begin work at the factory the week after he graduated from the local high school, in 1974. Three decades later, he was found to have a malignant skin cancer that his doctor said was most likely caused by prolonged exposure to creosote, the tar oil in which the ties are soaked.
Mr. Krueger, who is 54 but looks much older, reduced by manual labor and medical treatment, is suing the railroad for damages, claiming that BNSF failed to provide basic safety equipment or to warn workers that the federal government had linked creosote with skin cancer. He recalled cleaning the inside of the treatment tanks wearing no safety gear except steel-toed boots and mule-skin gloves.
''I got so high off that stuff I'd be laughing one minute and crying the next minute,'' said Mr. Krueger, sitting at the local Dairy Queen beneath old photographs of factory workers. ''I've got a 2-year-old grandson. My goal was to live to 101. What I'd like is a fair shake from the railroad for missing out.''
Mr. Krueger's lawsuit is financed by investors he has never met. His lawyer from Houston, Jared R. Woodfill, has borrowed more than $3.5 million from a New York hedge fund run by Stillwater Capital Partners, in a deal arranged by the litigation finance specialist Oxbridge Financial Group, also based in New York.
Mr. Woodfill first drove to Somerville in 2000 to meet with a former factory worker who has since died of skin cancer. He said that his work on that worker's case, which BNSF agreed to settle in 2003, convinced him that toxic emissions from the factory had poisoned the town's air, water and land.
Mr. Woodfill, who is 42 and the chairman of the Republican Party in Harris County, is empathetic and well-spoken. He found a ready audience in Somerville, which has declined with the railroad industry. The population peaked in the 1930s. About 1,700 people still live in the timeworn residential section, but automation has further reduced employment at the factory, and a quarter of the households now live in poverty. Residents with a wide range of health problems embraced the idea that the factory was responsible.
Mr. Woodfill signed up workers with skin cancer, like Mr. Krueger, and those with gastrointestinal cancers that he says can be caused by the chemicals used at the factory. He also signed up Somerville residents who never worked at the factory but had developed cancers. And he signed up property owners with no health problems, arguing that the value of their property had suffered.
About 400 people sued the railroad -- almost a quarter of the town's residents.
Oxbridge spent several months reviewing the cases before agreeing to arrange the financing, sending lawyers to Texas to look at documents and to question Mr. Woodfill and his partners. Stillwater Capital is charging about 16 percent annual interest.
''But for a hedge fund, I couldn't afford to take on a railroad,'' Mr. Woodfill said.
BNSF's general counsel, Charles Shewmake, said the company had carefully reviewed claims brought by its former workers and decided they had no merit. He said the claims by Somerville residents who did not work at the factory were ''physically impossible and without any scientific basis.''
Company executives were outraged when they learned that a hedge fund was backing the lawsuits, Mr. Shewmake said. He said that BNSF had been forced to spend millions of dollars mounting its courtroom defense and defending its reputation.
''They're stirring up cases that don't need to be in the courthouses,'' he said.
An Opportunity for Lenders
Lawsuit lending is a child of the subprime revolution, the mainstream embrace of high-risk lending at high interest rates that began in the early 1990s.
Mr. Zimmerman, the founder of the LawFinance Group, practiced law for more than two decades before moving into finance in California in 1992. A lawyer friend called to ask if he would lend to a client who had won a sexual harassment lawsuit. The woman's former employer had appealed, and she needed money for living expenses or she would be forced to take a smaller settlement.
Mr. Zimmerman invested $30,000 in the case; the former employer almost immediately dropped the appeal and paid out the verdict. Mr. Zimmerman made $20,000.
''I said: 'That's an interesting way to make money. Is there a way to turn that into a business?' '' he recalled. The company he created has since invested more than $350 million in litigation.
Others in the lending business saw the same opportunity at about the same time, including a mortgage salesman in Buffalo; a subprime auto lender from Nashville; and a Las Vegas man who had been convicted of threatening borrowers who failed to repay his previous business, Wild West Funding.
By the late 1990s, several of those companies were also making loans to lawyers. Plaintiffs needed small sums for living expenses; their lawyers needed much larger sums to mount cases, and they had few other options. Banks make loans against assets, and law firms generally have little property to pledge as collateral.
The new lenders jumped into the void. LawFinance's slogan is ''We do what banks won't.''
The industry's great innovation, and still its defining trait, is the willingness to lend based on the potential value of unresolved cases.
The roughly one dozen major lenders tend to cultivate an image of conservative prudence. Counsel Financial, which bills itself as the largest, with more than $200 million in outstanding loans to law firms, shares a suburban office building outside Buffalo with an insurance firm.
But the work sits somewhere between banking and gambling. Lenders employ experienced lawyers to judge the strength of cases. They consult databases showing the results of similar lawsuits, just as appraisers value homes based on recent sales. A corporate defendant may have a history of battling personal injury claims; or juries in a specific county may have a history of siding with local employers. Then they place their bets. Counsel will invest up to $10 million in a law firm.
The returns can be lucrative. Counsel Financial charges 18 percent annual interest. ''If firms have access to lower-cost financing, our first comment back to them is that you really shouldn't be talking to us,'' said Paul R. Cody, president of Counsel Financial. ''We're not going to be competitive'' with the interest rates charged by banks.
Law firms are generally obligated to repay loans even if they lose. In reality, however, firms that make less than expected often struggle to make the required payments, and a number of firms that borrowed from Counsel Financial have filed for bankruptcy protection.
Increasingly, banks are making lawsuit loans, too. During the lending boom of the last decade, companies including Citigroup, Commerce Bank of New Jersey and Credit Suisse provided financing for lawsuit lenders. More recently, some banks have started cutting out the middlemen. Deutsche Bank recently refinanced one of Counsel's largest clients, the New York firm Napoli Bern Ripka. TD Bank, which absorbed Commerce, lends to lawyers and plaintiffs.
The founders of LawCash, a Brooklyn lender, won a charter from New York in 2006 to establish Esquire Bank, the first American bank to specialize in the business of financing lawyers and lawsuits.
Defendants on the Defensive
A recent Nevada case illustrates one reason many companies are troubled by the rise of financing: They fear that investors will move from supporting to producing lawsuits.
Steven and Roz Flans left Los Angeles in 2004 for Sun City Anthem, a sprawling retirement community of 7,000 one-story homes, from ranches to mansions, at the edge of the Las Vegas basin. When the gas fireplace stopped working during their third winter in the desert, the couple contacted their home builder, Del Webb.
''We called and said, 'We have a minor problem,' '' Mr. Flans recalled. ''And they said: 'We can't talk to you. You're suing us!' ''
It emerged that the Flanses had accepted a free home inspection the previous year from a company, MC Mojave Construction, that had papered their neighborhood with brochures. They said they did not realize that the forms they signed authorized MC Mojave to sue Del Webb on their behalf for the money to correct any problems.
By 2008, MC Mojave had initiated more than 500 lawsuits against Del Webb. The company acted as an investor, providing inspection reports to the Las Vegas law firm that handled the cases in exchange for a share of any winnings.
Del Webb sued MC Mojave, arguing that Nevada law prohibited fomenting and investing in lawsuits. Jacque Petroulakis, a company spokeswoman, said that Del Webb would have fixed legitimate problems under its warranty policy, and that the lawsuits served solely to make money for MC Mojave and the law firm.
''They were throwing people into litigation that many of them never anticipated or wanted,'' Ms. Petroulakis said.
MC Mojave did not return calls for comment, but in court filings, it called the Nevada law ''medieval'' and said it should not be enforced. The company said it was providing a service at the request of the homeowners.
This year, a federal judge barred MC Mojave from initiating further lawsuits, ruling that Nevada law indeed prohibits such investments.
But a growing number of states have eliminated similar laws.
The Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court started the trend in 1997, citing a ''fundamental change in society's view of litigation -- from a social ill, which, like other disputes and quarrels, should be minimized, to a socially useful way to resolve disputes.''
South Carolina, Texas and Ohio are among the states that have followed.
Stephen C. Yeazell, a law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, and a leading historian of the civil justice system, said the trend was likely to continue. He said there was little legal justification for allowing lawyers to pay for cases but barring third parties from doing so. ''This is another step in leveling the playing field between plaintiffs and defendants,'' Mr. Yeazell said.
Gathering Plaintiffs
Anthony Flammia, a former New York City police officer who spent three months working in the wreckage of the World Trade Center, did not learn that his lawyers had borrowed money to pursue his claim of compensation for health problems until he received a bill for $828.93 in interest charges.
Mr. Flammia left ground zero at the end of 2001 for a job with a suburban police department. A few years later, a passer-by found him asleep in his patrol car. His health had been deteriorating, and the episode prompted him to visit a free clinic established to treat ground zero workers for the consequences of inhaling dust. He was found to have sleep apnea and scarring in his lungs. In 2007, he passed out after inhaling smoke at a house fire and was forced to retire.
Lawyers led by Napoli Bern Ripka sued the City of New York and a host of agencies and companies on behalf of more than 9,000 ground zero workers. When Mr. Flammia signed up as a client, the paperwork included a general notice that the lawyers might borrow money to pursue the case, and that they might bill clients for the interest.
Mr. Flammia said he did not see the general warning, and there was no further notice as the lawyers borrowed more than $35 million.
In June, the city and other defendants agreed to settle the case for up to $712.5 million. The workers have until Tuesday to approve the settlement. Workers received letters detailing how much they would receive, and how much the lawyers would keep to cover the costs of pursuing the case.
Among the costs billed to clients was $6.1 million of the $11 million in total interest payments, which the law firms said reflected the share of the borrowed money covering the workers' expenses.
Lawsuit lenders, including Counsel Financial, encourage lawyers to bill clients. They advertise in trade magazines that lawyers can borrow money free if the client is paying the interest. Bar associations in most states, including New York, condone the practice.
Paul J. Napoli, one of the lead lawyers representing the ground zero workers, said that the firm needed money to pursue the case, that the loans were taken at the lowest available interest rates and that clients were properly notified.
''We followed the rules. Do people want to have it sky-written over their house every day?'' Mr. Napoli asked. ''They didn't read it. Or maybe they didn't care at the time. At what point do people have a self-responsibility to read something and be bound by it?''
But Mr. Flammia and other workers said they had not agreed that the law firm could pay for its work by borrowing money at their expense.
''If I'm ever involved in a lawsuit again, I'm going to be very careful and read every document line by line,'' Mr. Flammia said. ''I'm also going to find a lawyer who is acting on my behalf and not to line their own pockets.''
The judge overseeing the case, Alvin K. Hellerstein of the Federal District Court of Manhattan, ordered the lawyers to swallow the cost.
Judge Hellerstein acknowledged that the charges were legal, but said that the lawyers already were earning enough from the case. He said that it was not clear that clients had understood or approved the decision to borrow, and that it was clear that clients had no control over how the money was spent.
The workers, Judge Hellerstein said, ''want to have the fruits of this settlement not diminished by an effort of lawyers to finance much of the way that they work this case.''
A War of Attrition
The residents of Somerville, Tex., have yet to win a trial.
The case of Linda Faust, who never worked at the railroad plant, was the first to reach court, in 2008. She had stomach cancer.
The jury deliberated three days before deciding that BNSF was not responsible.
The following year, a jury ruled against Dennis Davis, a former worker at the factory with pancreatic cancer.
Mr. Woodfill's nine-lawyer firm, Woodfill & Pressler, has spent more on the Somerville cases than any of its previous litigation. Win or lose, it must repay Stillwater, the hedge fund that is bankrolling the cases. Mr. Woodfill said he remained confident that the cases could be won. He is appealing the two losses and preparing for a third trial next year.
He drove through Somerville recently on his way to meet with clients, rolling down the windows so the smell of the factory came into the car. ''They're hoping to spend us into the ground and make us go away, but we're not giving up,'' he said.
Mr. Shewmake of BNSF said the company was braced to continue fighting the cases until Stillwater ran out of patience.
''Right now,'' he said, ''I'd say it's starting to look like a bad investment decision.''
Betting on Justice: Articles in this series will look at the growing practice of investing in lawsuits, and efforts to facilitate it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Anthony Flammia, a former police officer, received a bill for interest from his lawyers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GORDON M. GRANT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
A CANCER CASE: Dennis Krueger started at a BNSF Railway factory in Texas in 1974. His doctor said the cancer he developed was probably related to his job.
CLAIMS DISMISSED: Linda Faust of Somerville had stomach cancer and sued BNSF. She did not work at the plant, and a jury said BNSF was not liable (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SCOTT DALTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Marc Jay Bern, a lawyer, with a client who was a cleanup worker at ground zero. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN WALSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A20)
THE LAWYER: Jared Woodfill has borrowed more than $3.5 million from a hedge fund to pay for the Somerville suits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT DALTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21) MAPS: The noxious work of treating wood to make railroad ties has gone on in Somerville for more than a century.
CHART: Legal Pathway to Lawsuit Lending (A20)
 GRAPHIC: Legal Financing, an Example: David Kert and his partner, Vernon Welsh, lawyers in upstate New York, represented workers at Macy's and several other large department stores in a lawsuit claiming that sales commissions on returned items were improperly deducted from employees' paychecks. (A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (92%); LAWYERS (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (89%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (89%); JURY TRIALS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); BIRTH INJURIES (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); TESTIMONY (75%); COURT COST FINES (75%); LEGAL SERVICES (74%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); STATISTICS (72%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (68%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (67%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); BUFFALO CO LTD (72%); FRESH DEL MONTE PRODUCE INC (51%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); 3352 (JASDAQ) (72%); FDP (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS441310 AUTOMOTIVE PARTS & ACCESSORIES STORES (72%); SIC5013 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS (72%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (51%); NAICS111339 OTHER NONCITRUS FRUIT FARMING (51%); NAICS111219 OTHER VEGETABLE (EXCEPT POTATO) & MELON FARMING (51%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (51%); SIC0179 FRUITS & TREE NUTS, NEC (51%); SIC0161 VEGETABLES & MELONS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2010



574 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Presses to Stop Flow Of Bomb Item to Afghanistan

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With roadside bombs by far the leading killer of American troops in Afghanistan, the Obama administration has started a worldwide effort to stop the flow of ammonium nitrate, the fertilizer that is their basic ingredient, into the war ravaged country.
But the campaign, dubbed Operation Global Shield, is running up against stubborn hurdles in neighboring Pakistan, where the police routinely wave tons of ammonium nitrate shipments across the border into Afghanistan despite that country's ban on imports of the chemical. It is unclear whether the border guards are fooled by clever attempts to disguise the shipments as benign or are paid to turn a blind eye, or both. 
The problem is compounded by lax enforcement in Afghanistan. While the Afghan government has at least passed a law banning the chemical, Pakistan has not yet done so.
Ammonium nitrate is commonly used in agriculture as a fertilizer. But most Pakistani farmers use urea, an organic chemical, to fertilize their crops, and there is only one factory in Pakistan that manufactures ammonium nitrate. That suggests, American officials said, that some of the caravans of trucks rumbling over the border into Afghanistan are carrying shipments imported into Pakistan, usually under false pretenses.
As a result, Operation Global Shield also seeks to curtail exports of the chemical to Pakistan by European allies like Germany and Sweden. Under the voluntary program, they have agreed to tighten customs procedures to try to make sure that ammonium nitrate does not end up in the hands of the Taliban or other insurgents.
The program also focuses on other so-called precursor chemicals, like potassium chloride, which can be used to make bombs.
''It's long and it's slow and it's tough,'' said Richard C. Holbrooke, the administration's special representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan, in describing the plan devised by his office in cooperation with the Department of Homeland Security and other agencies.
''My goal would be to have detection devices at the borders, so that every shipment would be inspected and verified,'' Mr. Holbrooke added. ''To do that requires the cooperation of the Afghans and Pakistanis. The Afghans are quite willing, but we have a lot of work to do with the Pakistanis.''
Earlier this year, President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan signed a decree banning the import of ammonium nitrate. He gave Afghans 30 days to turn over supplies and ordered training for the police to detect illegal shipments.
Pakistani officials said that legislation regulating the use of ammonium nitrate and monitoring shipments of it was making its way through the Pakistani Parliament. But they also contend that pinning the blame solely on Pakistan is unfair, since some shipments of these chemicals were funneled into Afghanistan from Iran, over which the United States has little control.
''We are as concerned as our allies about the illicit use of fertilizer and other legitimate chemicals that can be diverted to making explosive devices that have been used by terrorists against our troops and citizens, as well as those of neighbors and allies,'' said Husain Haqqani, Pakistan's ambassador to Washington.
Smugglers have also become increasingly sophisticated, administration officials said, masking the shipments by packaging them in wheat bags.
Given the host of thorny security issues that divide Pakistan and the United States, the issue of ammonium nitrate shipments can get lost in the shuffle. But some Americans officials believe it needs to move up the list of priorities, since nearly two-thirds of combat fatalities among American and allied troops are caused by so-called improvised explosive devices, many of which use the chemical.
In a letter last August to Pakistan's president, Asif Ali Zardari, Senator Robert P. Casey Jr., a Pennsylvania Democrat who has championed efforts to crack down on the ingredients for roadside bombs, implored Mr. Zardari to do more to regulate the fertilizer and tighten border controls with Afghanistan.
''I cannot overemphasize the urgency of this issue,'' he wrote.
On Thursday, Senator Casey plans to hold a hearing to assess the progress on stemming the flow of ammonium nitrate. Noting that Pakistani soldiers are also victimized by roadside bombs, he has pressed Gen. David H. Petraeus, the commander in Afghanistan, and Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, to raise the problem with Pakistan's military chief, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani.
''You've got to have a whole series of pressure points,'' he said. ''It's not that they should ban it, but that they should regulate it.''
Citing the seizure of 24 tons of ammonium nitrate by NATO troops in Afghanistan in recent weeks, Senator Casey said some interdiction efforts were working. The Pakistani floods also temporarily cut back the flow of the chemical.
But Senator Casey said there were still reports of hundreds of tons a month flowing across the border from Pakistan.
Mary Beth Goodman, a senior economic adviser to Mr. Holbrooke, said that on Nov. 1, the United States began working with Interpol, the World Customs Organization, and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime to monitor global flows of ammonium nitrate.
''There's no one egregious producer,'' Ms. Goodman said. ''The global shield effort is a way to monitor the trade flows.''
The United States has its own history with misuse of the chemical. In 1995, Timothy J. McVeigh and Terry L. Nichols mixed the chemical with fuel oil to create a bomb that destroyed the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City, killing 168 people.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marines searched for fertilizer used to make bombs at a farmer's home last year in Helmand Province. The fertilizer, ammonium nitrate, is used to make improvised explosive devices. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT NICKELSBERG/GETTY IMAGES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERTILIZERS (92%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (91%); CHEMICALS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EXPLOSIVES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); IMPORT CONTROLS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALIBAN (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (77%); BORDER CONTROL (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); TRADE DISPUTES (71%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (70%); ORGANIC CHEMICALS (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); HAMAD KARZAI (58%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); PAKISTAN (96%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (79%); SWEDEN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010



575 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Metropolitan Diary

 BODY:
DEAR DIARY:
I was walking home from Central Park with my 6-year-old daughter, Hava, along 79th Street. It was Sept. 23, the evening President Obama was in Manhattan to address the United Nations. Police activity was intense.
Finally we got to First Avenue. We were approached by a news crew from WPIX-TV. I was prepared to answer questions about politics, fiscal stimulus, health care, peace talks, unemployment, global warming, tea parties. WPIX wanted the opinion of a father. 
Perhaps the question would relate to the ever-present threat of terrorism.
The big question was: Did I think Katy Perry's routine with Elmo on ''Sesame Street'' was appropriate? Would I mind if my daughter watched this on TV?
Neither Hava nor I had ever heard of Katy. They showed me a video clip of Katy's song and dance with Elmo. Not bad, I thought. I told them to show it to Hava. My daughter was not as impressed as I was.
Thank you, WPIX! Katy is adorable, and I watch her every day now on YouTube, especially the routine with Elmo.
So the answer to the deep question of our time is this: Katy and Elmo are an inappropriate distraction for fathers, fine for kids and potentially problematic for husbands and wives. Did I answer correctly?
Charles A. Stone
Dear Diary:
While walking crosstown from Pennsylvania Station to the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, I encountered a long line on 33rd Street at 8 a.m. There were men and women of all ages, shapes and sizes. All seemed to be patiently waiting, and the line extended from a building at Eighth Avenue all the way to Ninth.
As I passed by these throngs of people, my mind started to wonder what they were all waiting for. A job fair perhaps, or unemployment benefits? I even envisioned a casting call or talent search. My curiosity got the better of me as I approached the end of the line. I asked a woman standing at the end of the line what they were all waiting for.
Her answer was in pure New York fashion: ''Sample sale.''
Anita Friedman
Dear Diary:
The opening of the Trader Joe's on the Upper West Side has prompted me to remember my experience at Fairway when I lived on West 72nd Street in the 1990s.
In an attempt to avoid the crowds, I tried shopping before 8 a.m. and after 11 p.m., but the store was still busy.
I discovered that if I taped ''Seinfeld'' during prime time and went during that time slot, I could hear a pin drop.
Stephanie Kaufman
Dear Diary:
A Prague-born friend invited me to join her and her family at the New York Czech community's annual Beseda Ball, named for a Czech folk dance. The invitation specified that ladies should wear long gowns, gentlemen black tie and those who have them ''decorations.''
When I arrived at the landmark Bohemian National Hall on East 73rd Street, the women, young and old, were all clad in elegant, often sparkling floor-length dresses. Most men wore black ties, but a few of the older ones were adorned in full white ties and tails.
One, a handsome gentleman probably in his 80s, with one of those central casting-aristocratic haircuts that turn up slightly in the back, even wore white gloves. I was told he had been a senior officer in the pre-Communist Czechoslovak armed forces and, accordingly, his chest was adorned with a long row of medals. He held a silver-handled walking stick in one hand. In the other, he had a briar pipe on which he puffed from time to time -- something that struck me as rather strange in strictly no-smoking New York.
Then, I noticed a clear plastic tube coming from the bowl of the pipe. It was attached to a portable tank of oxygen he had discreetly placed under his table. Ahhh, the unbeatable elegance of Mitteleuropa!
Richard Z. Chesnoff
Observations for this column may be sent to Metropolitan Diary at diary@nytimes.com or to The New York Times, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018. Please include your name, mailing address and daytime telephone number; on request, names may be withheld in print. Submissions become the property of The Times and cannot be returned. They may be edited, and The Times may republish them in all media.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); POLICE FORCES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (66%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (64%); EMPLOYMENT (62%); PEACE PROCESS (57%); GLOBAL WARMING (56%); TERRORISM (55%)

COMPANY: TRADER JOE'S CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010



576 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: Deficit Remains Focus of National Attention

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota, a member of the bipartisan commission on reducing the national debt, warned Sunday that America ''will become a second-rate economic power'' unless it begins to deal with that debt.
''The important thing for people to know is we are borrowing 40 cents of every dollar we spend,'' he said on ABC's ''This Week With Christiane Amanpour.'' ''That's utterly unsustainable. It can't continue much longer, so it's got to be dealt with.'' 
Mr. Conrad, a Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Budget Committee and is working on ideas for overhauling the tax system, spoke as a cluster of economic issues seemed to dominate the nation's political conversation.
Five days ago, the two chairmen of the president's debt commission shook up Washington by calling for deep cuts in domestic and military spending, a gradual increase in the retirement age at which people can qualify for full Social Security benefits to 69, and the elimination of such popular tax breaks as the deduction for mortgage interest. Meanwhile, the lame-duck Congress that reconvenes this week is grappling with whether to extend tax cuts adopted during the Bush administration that are set to expire Jan. 1.
Mr. Conrad said he disagrees with some of the changes on tax matters proposed by the commission's chairmen, Alan K. Simpson, a former Republican senator from Wyoming, and Erskine B. Bowles, who was White House chief of staff under President Bill Clinton. He would favor retaining the mortgage-interest tax deduction -- but perhaps only for primary residences -- as well as the child credit and the earned income tax credit. But he said he would close some loopholes like allowing ''$100 billion a year to be lost to offshore tax havens'' and ''another $50 billion to abuse of tax shelters.''
David Axelrod, the president's senior adviser, addressed the extension of the Bush-era tax cuts in appearances on ''Fox News Sunday'' and NBC's ''Meet the Press.'' He argued that ''permanently'' cutting taxes for the wealthiest Americans would cost the government $700 billion over the next 10 years. President Obama and most Democratic legislators want to re-authorize tax cuts only for couples earning below $250,000, while Republicans want to continue the cuts for wealthier Americans as well.
''We can't afford to borrow another $700 billion to pay for tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires,'' Mr. Axelrod said on ''Meet the Press.''
When both hosts asked him whether his stress on the word permanent created wiggle room for a compromise like a temporary extension of the cuts for the wealthiest American of one or two years, he said that only the cuts for middle-class Americans -- which he seemed to define as the couples making under $250,000 -- should be made permanent.
Mr. Axelrod also confirmed widespread speculation that he will be leaving the White House in a few months to return to work on the president's re-election campaign.
''Sometime in the late winter, early spring, I'll be coming here to Chicago and beginning to work on that project,'' he said on Fox.
Senator John McCain of Arizona, the 2008 Republican presidential candidate, said on ''Meet the Press'' that he favors extending all the tax cuts until ''we're out of this recession.'' He admitted that six years ago he opposed tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans, but explained his change of heart by pointing out ''we're in the midst of the greatest recession since the Great Depression.''
Without wading into specifics, he said the debt commission's recommendations should be a ''wake-up call to all Americans.''
''Everything should be on the table,'' he added. ''And if not, we won't make progress.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (72%); INCOME TAX (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); TAX REFORM (68%); RETIREMENT AGE (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (66%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: KENT CONRAD (89%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); BILL CLINTON (57%); CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR (55%); DAVID AXELROD (54%); ERSKINE BOWLES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010



577 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: Obama Returns, Facing Unpredictable Congress In a Lame-Duck Session

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama returned from Asia on Sunday to face the new post-election reality at home: in an unpredictable lame-duck session of Congress starting Monday, emboldened Republicans are poised to try to force an extension of the Bush-era tax rates for the wealthy and block action on a variety of domestic and foreign initiatives.
Yet even as Air Force One approached Washington, Mr. Obama issued something of a warning to Republicans. ''Campaigning is very different from governing,'' he told reporters on board. ''All of us learn that. And they're still flush with victory, having run a strategy that was all about saying no. But I am very confident that the American people were not issuing a mandate for gridlock.''
Congressional Republicans do not officially take power until Jan. 5, but they feel vindicated by their election triumphs in continuing a strategy of obstructing Mr. Obama's agenda. And while Congressional Democrats will control the House for the lame-duck session, the party is demoralized, divided over how to proceed and frustrated at a lack of direction from a White House still figuring out its own next moves. 
Two Democratic senators on Sunday tried to step into that perceived void. Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York proposed limiting an extension of the Bush tax cuts to incomes below $1 million instead of $250,000. Senator Mark Warner of Virginia would keep the lower income cutoff and use roughly $65 billion, the amount that would be saved by not extending the rates for higher income for two years, to cut taxes further for small businesses.
''I think there is a compromise in the making,'' Mr. Schumer said on ''Face the Nation'' on CBS.
Republican leaders also made the rounds of the Sunday talk shows to support keeping the rates low for all taxpayers, despite a projected cost of $4 trillion over 10 years. Of that, about $700 billion is the estimated cost of retaining the top rates for another decade.
On other issues, too, the president's ambitions for the session are likely to clash with both the political realities and the practical limitations of a short calendar -- whether Congress meets for days, as many House Democrats would like, or for weeks, assuming that the Senate gets bogged down in partisan battles over the tax cuts, Mr. Obama's proposed arms reduction deal with Russia and more.
The tax debate could set the tone and potentially crowd out other issues, including a spending measure needed to keep the federal government running. That would play into the hands of Republicans, who prefer to pass an array of short-term extensions that kick the pressing legislative issues into the next Congress, where they will control the House and have a larger Senate minority.
Nearly lost among the talk of expiring tax rates for the wealthy is another deadline: after Nov. 30, emergency federal benefits for about two million long-term unemployed Americans will end. Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, will try this week to pass an extension, but failing that, many Democrats want extended jobless aid to be the price of any compromise on the tax cuts.
Mr. Obama's senior strategist, David Axelrod, appeared on two networks' Sunday talk shows and reaffirmed that the president favored continuing the Bush income tax rates permanently only for those with incomes below $250,000 for couples filing jointly or $200,000 for individuals. He also affirmed that Mr. Obama opposed a permanent extension for those with higher incomes, which Republicans have demanded.
But in emphasizing Mr. Obama's opposition to a permanent extension, the White House has signaled openness to a temporary one, though whether for one year or more remained unclear.
Two conservative Republicans -- Senator Jim DeMint of South Carolina, speaking on ''Fox News Sunday,'' and Rand Paul, who was just elected to the Senate from Kentucky and appeared on CBS -- said separately that they wanted a permanent extension of all rates but could compromise on a two- or three-year extension of the rates for high-income earners.
''If that's all we can get, that's better than nothing,'' Mr. Paul said.
Democrats, however, have other ideas for a compromise. Mr. Schumer said of his proposal, ''Everyone below a million dollars will get a tax cut, but the millionaires and billionaires won't.''
Mr. Warner's proposal to spend $65 billion on alternative temporary tax breaks to spur small businesses is similar to one that Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner proposed last July in a speech -- without any follow-up from the White House.
Like Mr. Geithner, Mr. Warner argued that nonpartisan analyses showed that extending the Bush tax cuts on high incomes is the least effective of a variety of stimulus proposals since the rich are more likely to save the money rather than spend it.
''Most economists would say giving folks like me an additional tax cut might not be the best value,'' Mr. Warner, who is wealthy, said on ''State of the Union'' on CNN.
Among the most effective measures, according to many analyses, is extending unemployment assistance since the jobless spend the money immediately. Republicans are opposed to further extensions in the lame-duck session. But Democrats are counting on the holiday season to persuade them to acquiesce.
A focus for House Republicans this week will be a vote in their conference on a proposal to ban earmarks in spending bills, by which individual lawmakers dedicate money to a particular purpose. The ban, intended to symbolize the Republicans' fiscal conservatism, would not be binding on Congress. Senate Republican leaders are among its most vocal opponents; they say that earmarks add little to overall spending and that a ban would shift power to federal agencies to determine how money is spent.
House Democrats will caucus Tuesday in a session that is expected to include substantial hand-wringing over their midterm election losses and tense discussions over the bid by the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, to remain as Democratic leader in the next Congress.
She is hoping to push bills protecting workers from discrimination based on sexual orientation and providing a path to citizenship for certain illegal immigrants who were brought to the United States as young children. In the Senate, Mr. Reid may also push the immigration bill, as he promised Hispanic constituents during his tough re-election race.
The Senate was to return this week to a House-passed bill to fix the nation's food safety system. Though it has broad support, Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, has blocked it.
Mr. Reid and Senate Democrats are also hoping to vote on a major military bill, already passed by the House, that would authorize the repeal of the ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy requiring gay soldiers to keep their sexual orientation secret. Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, appearing on ''Meet the Press'' on NBC, reiterated his intention to keep trying to block the repeal language.
If neither side relents, Congress could fail to pass the annual military authorization bill for the first time in 48 years.
A priority for Mr. Obama is Senate ratification of the New Start nuclear arms control treaty with Russia, which requires a two-thirds vote. The White House is negotiating with Senator Jon Kyl, Republican of Arizona, whose support is crucial to getting other Republican votes, to meet his price: more money to modernize the nuclear arsenal.
Despite the election-year rhetoric against deficits, other pending measures -- like the Bush tax cuts -- would add to the debt.
Both sides want a one-year adjustment for the alternative minimum tax so many upper-middle-class Americans will not have to pay a projected $65 billion more in taxes for 2010; a $35 billion package extending longtime tax breaks for individuals and businesses for this year; and a one-year measure blocking $17 billion in scheduled cuts in Medicare payments to doctors.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama returning to the White House on Sunday after a 10-day trip to Asia. (POOL PHOTO BY YURI GRIPAS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); MARK WARNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010



578 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: Under Attack, Fed Officials Defend Buying of Bonds

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
With the Federal Reserve under attack at home and abroad, it is making an unusual public bid to keep itself away from the political crossfire.
After a barrage of criticism over the last week -- including from foreign leaders, Congressional officials, economists and Alan Greenspan, the former Fed chairman -- the Fed came out to explain its efforts to inject $600 billion more into the sagging economy.
One worry of Fed watchers as well as its defenders is that some of the domestic criticism may have the subtext of challenging the Fed's traditional independence in deciding monetary policy without political interference.
In a rare on-the-record interview, William C. Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said that the Fed's move was not intended to affect the value of the dollar, but rather to encourage a faster, stronger recovery that will also assist international growth. 
''We have no goal in terms of pushing the dollar up or down,'' Mr. Dudley said. ''Our goal is to ease financial conditions and to stimulate a stronger economic expansion and more rapid employment growth.''
And in an interview with The Wall Street Journal, the Fed's new vice chairwoman, Janet L. Yellen, defended the decision in broadly similar terms. ''I'm having a hard time seeing where really robust growth can come from,'' she said. ''And I see inflation lingering around current levels for a long time.'' Ms. Yellen said she was ''not happy to see us caught up in a political debate.''
The comments by Mr. Dudley, who is also the vice chairman of the Federal Open Market Committee, which sets monetary policy, and by Ms. Yellen amounted to an unusual rebuttal, the first by top Fed officials, of criticism of its decision this month to pump money into the banking system. The plan is to spur the recovery by buying government securities to lower long-term interest rates.
Kenneth A. Froot, who teaches international finance at Harvard Business School, said, ''The Fed needs to get the word out more clearly'' because of the politically volatile times. Mr. Froot added, ''This is a very rare circumstance where the basic authority we vest in institutions like the Fed has, more than ever, been challenged,'' by politicians and economists who are often identified with political parties.
The bond markets have been increasingly uneasy about the Fed's actions. On Monday, bond prices fell and yields jumped as a result of the concerns.
The criticism has tended to fall along three lines. Some have accused the Fed of deliberately weakening the dollar to make American exports more competitive. Others fear the Fed's decision could ignite inflation down the road. Still others say the policy will be ineffective absent additional fiscal stimulus.
Fed officials were clearly unsettled by an opinion piece by Mr. Greenspan in The Financial Times on Thursday, at the start of meetings of the Group of 20 nations in Seoul, South Korea. Mr. Greenspan said the United States was ''pursuing a policy of currency weakening'' and increasing the risks of trade protectionism.
In an open letter to Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, on Monday, a group of conservative economists, writers and investors urged that the Fed's action ''be reconsidered and discontinued,'' arguing that the bond purchases ''risk currency debasement and inflation.'' The group included Michael J. Boskin, a former chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers; the historian Niall Ferguson; Douglas Holtz-Eakin, a former director of the Congressional Budget Office; and the economist John B. Taylor, one of Mr. Bernanke's most prominent critics.
Mr. Dudley did not single out any critic, but suggested that the criticisms were unfounded.
''There is no long-term conflict between what the U.S. is trying to accomplish and what other countries are trying to accomplish,'' Mr. Dudley said, echoing statements by President Obama and Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner. ''A strong economic recovery in the U.S. is in the interests of the global economy.''
While Mr. Dudley said the effect on the dollar was not a consideration, he acknowledged that when interest rates adjust, ''oftentimes there will be consequences for the dollar.'' He added, ''We have seen some dollar weakness in this period, but it doesn't seem to be unusual, given the changes that we've seen in interest rates in the U.S. compared to interest rates abroad.''
Mr. Dudley rejected the idea that the Fed might be setting the stage for uncontrollable inflation in years to come. He said the Fed had tools for draining the bank reserves sitting on its balance sheet.
''We are very, very confident that those tools will be completely effective at keeping inflation in check,'' he said. ''We are completely willing to use those tools, when the time comes, to prevent an inflation problem. Higher inflation is not a way out. It is not a solution.''
Mr. Dudley argued that the Fed's efforts had their intended effect. Since August, when the Fed first hinted that it might take further steps to spur the recovery, stock prices have risen and long-term interest rates have fallen. That makes it easier for consumers to buy homes or refinance mortgages, and for businesses to borrow and invest.
''You've seen a significant easing of financial conditions over that time period,'' he said. ''I have to believe that the expectation of a second large-scale asset purchase program was the primary driver of those changes.''
Even so, Mr. Dudley cautioned, ''One shouldn't view this instrument as a panacea or a magic wand that's going to make the economy recover rapidly.'' He said the Fed's action, known as quantitative easing, was ''not going to be extremely powerful'' but was nonetheless necessary to reduce the risk, however slim, of a double-dip recession.
''It's going to be a long and bumpy road to a strong and vigorous expansion, but this will be helpful rather than hurtful,'' he said.
Uncertainty about fiscal policy -- whether the Bush-era tax cuts will be extended, and in the long term, how the nation will rein in its record deficits -- has complicated the recovery, Mr. Dudley said.
Asked whether fiscal gridlock had forced the Fed to act, he said, ''We're going to worry about what we can worry about, which is monetary policy.'' The Fed, he said, has to ''take the world as it is.''
Mr. Dudley, who joined the New York Fed in 2007 from Goldman Sachs, where he was the chief United States economist, also provided details about how the Fed's outlook had evolved.
''We were going into the year expecting the economy to pick up steam,'' Mr. Dudley said. In the spring, ''We were starting to see the glimmers'' of a healthy recovery in private-sector employment, he said. But by the summer, growth began to stall; it is now estimated at an annualized rate of 2 percent. Inflation, already low, fell further.
The economy was ''vulnerable to a shock that could tip us into deflation,'' he said.
In recent speeches, Mr. Dudley and Charles L. Evans, president of the Chicago Fed, mentioned the possibility of allowing inflation to run higher in the future to make up for inflation's being too low today, an approach known as price-level targeting. But in the interview, Mr. Dudley emphasized that he had not endorsed that approach.
''The problem with a price-level target is that it's difficult to explain what you're doing in a way that doesn't create larger anxiety about the long-term inflation target,'' he said. ''We clearly want people to understand that we are committed to price stability over the long run.''
Mr. Dudley declined to discuss the deliberations of the committee, but acknowledged that the decision was not easy.
''Reasonable people can disagree about how big the costs are versus how big the benefits are,'' he said. ''It's completely reasonable to expect that not everyone is going to see it exactly the same way, because these policies have not been used much on a historical basis.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: William Dudley, left, of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, with Kenneth Chenault of American Express. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA RINALDI/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); INTERVIEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BONDS (89%); POLITICS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BOND MARKETS (86%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (66%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (70%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (70%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (70%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); KENNETH I CHENAULT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2010



579 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: This Raging Fire

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
When I was a kid my Uncle Robert, for whom I was named, used to say that blacks needed to ''fight on all fronts, at home and abroad.''
By that he meant that while it was critically important to fight against racial injustice and oppression, it was just as important to support, nurture and fight on behalf of one's family and community.
Uncle Robert (my father always called him Jim -- don't ask) died many years ago, but he came to mind as I was going over the dismal information in a new report about the tragic conditions confronting a large portion of America's black population, especially black males. 
We know by now, of course, that the situation is grave. We know that more than a third of black children live in poverty; that more than 70 percent are born to unwed mothers; that by the time they reach their mid-30s, a majority of black men without a high school diploma has spent time in prison. We know all this, but no one seems to know how to turn things around. No one has been able to stop this steady plunge of young black Americans into a socioeconomic abyss.
Now comes a report from the Council of the Great City Schools that ought to grab the attention of anyone who cares about black youngsters, starting with those parents who have shortchanged their children on a scale so monstrous that it is difficult to fully grasp.
The report, titled ''A Call for Change,'' begins by saying that ''the nation's young black males are in a state of crisis'' and describes their condition as ''a national catastrophe.'' It tells us that black males remain far behind their schoolmates in academic achievement and that they drop out of school at nearly twice the rate of whites.
Black children -- boys and girls -- are three times more likely to live in single-parent households than white children and twice as likely to live in a home where no parent has full-time or year-round employment.
In 2008, black males were imprisoned at a rate six-and-a-half times higher than white males.
The terrible economic downturn has made it more difficult than ever to douse this raging fire that is consuming the life prospects of so many young blacks, and the growing sentiment in Washington is to do even less to help any Americans in need. It is inconceivable in this atmosphere that blacks themselves will not mobilize in a major way to save these young people. I see no other alternative.
The first and most important step would be a major effort to begin knitting the black family back together. There is no way to overstate the myriad risks faced by children whose parents have effectively abandoned them. It's the family that protects the child against ignorance and physical harm, that offers emotional security and the foundation for a strong sense of self, that enables a child to believe -- truly -- that wonderful things are possible.
All of that is missing in the lives of too many black children.
I wouldn't for a moment discount the terrible toll that racial and economic injustice have taken, decade after decade, on the lives of millions of black Americans. But that is no reason to abandon one's children or give in to the continued onslaught of those who would do you ill. One has to fight on all fronts, as my Uncle Robert said.
Black men need to be in the home, providing for their children. The community at large -- including the many who have done well, who have secured a place in the middle or upper classes -- needs to coalesce to provide support and assistance to those still struggling.
Dorothy Height, the longtime president of the National Council of Negro Women, who died in April at the age of 98, always insisted that blacks ''have survived because of family.'' And she counseled: ''No one will do for you what you need to do for yourself.''
There are many people already hard at work on these matters, but leadership is needed to vastly expand and maximize those efforts. Cultural change comes hard, and takes a long time, but nothing short of a profound cultural change is essential. Let the message go out that walking down the aisle carries with it great responsibilities but can also be great fun, and watching your kid graduate with honors is a blast.
Black children can't wait for Washington to get its act together. They don't have time to wait for the economy to improve. They need mom and dad and the larger community to act now, to do the right thing without delay.
This is not a fight only for blacks. All allies are welcome. But the cultural imperative lies overwhelmingly with the black community itself.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); MEN (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); FAMILY (89%); POOR POPULATION (76%); PARENTS (76%); SINGLE PARENTS (76%); CHILD POVERTY (73%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); HIGH SCHOOLS (67%); JAIL SENTENCING (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2010



580 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Left, Right and Wrong on Taxes

BYLINE: By GLENN HUBBARD. 
Glenn Hubbard, the dean of Columbia Business School and the co-author of ''Seeds of Destruction,'' was a chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President George W. Bush.

 BODY:
GIVEN the furor from both the left and the right, one would be tempted to think that the initial proposal from the co-chairmen of President Obama's fiscal commission, Erskine Bowles and Alan Simpson, must offer an excellent starting point for a discussion of deficit reduction.
Indeed, it does -- particularly when it comes to tax policy. America's fiscal mess is real. As Messrs. Bowles and Simpson aptly demonstrate, we are in a difficult situation in large part because we have designed entitlements for a welfare state we cannot afford. And, perhaps less obviously, they show how we have used the tax code as a vehicle for special-purpose spending that weakens both the efficiency and fairness of our tax system. 
When I left my job as the deputy assistant Treasury secretary for tax policy in 1993, I left a message on my office blackboard for my successor. I wrote, ''Broaden the base, lower the rates'' repeatedly until I filled the entire space. I then had it covered with wax so it could not be erased. (Yes, the government charged me for my bit of vandalism. But it was worth it.)
The Bowles-Simpson report seems to have taken that message to heart, recognizing that when we provide tax advantages to spur certain types of spending -- with, say, a deduction for interest payments on home mortgages -- we in turn require higher marginal tax rates to raise offsetting revenue. Not only are those higher rates a drag on overall growth, but because the tax preferences are often more valuable to affluent households than to poorer ones, they also make the tax code less fair.
This is why the two chairmen suggested that the government reduce marginal tax rates for households to a range from 8 percent to 23 percent, based on income (as opposed to 10 percent to 35 percent now). This cut in rates -- which should promote job creation, entrepreneurship, saving and investment -- would be made possible by limiting many of the deductions that make the tax code so complicated and often inequitable.
The loopholes proposed for elimination or at least reduction include not just the mortgage-interest deduction, but also exemptions for charitable contributions and for employer-provided health care subsidies, as well as the earned-income tax credit. (It's worth noting that the Bowles-Simpson plan does allow for some flexibility: Congress could add back deductions and exclusions it feels are vital, but at the expense of higher marginal rates.)
The co-chairmen also wisely propose a cut in the corporate income tax, which holds back both investment and wages, reducing it to 26 percent from 35 percent. This cut shouldn't actually require much in terms of offsetting revenue, as research from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development suggests that the new level would not be far from the ''revenue-maximizing'' rate.
This is not to say the commission's proposal is ideal. For one, it missed a chance to make better, more radical changes to the revenue system -- like a shift to a consumption tax rather than taxing incomes. My greatest concern, however, is that the plan is more about ''principal'' (cutting federal debt) than about ''principle'' (what we want taxes and spending to accomplish).
To meet the nation's fiscal challenges, we need to refocus our economic activity -- primarily with less reliance on consumption and more on investment and exports. The Bowles-Simpson plan to cut marginal tax rates and the corporate tax would help. But their proposal to treat capital gains and dividends, which are now taxed at favorable rates, as ordinary income would not; in fact, it would hamper saving and investment. And the proposed increase in gasoline taxes seems designed simply to plug a budget hole, not to spur energy innovation.
What of the critics on the left and right? I understand the complaints of liberals. The proposal essentially claims that maintaining a broad welfare state is inconsistent with planning for a long-run fiscal trajectory that includes economic growth and social insurance. This idea is anathema to Democratic Congressional leaders. The proposal also lays bare the fallacy on the left that any lowering of marginal tax rates is necessarily ''tax cuts for the rich.'' The plan's limits on tax deductions and cutbacks in the generosity of entitlement benefits for upper-income households render the plan a progressive reform.
The right's criticisms are more puzzling. Groups like Americans for Tax Reform insist that any member of Congress who supported the proposal would be voting for a tax increase. It is hard to share the view that no tax increase of any sort can figure in a fiscal solution. The proposal calls for taxes and spending to be capped at 21 percent of gross domestic product, which, while higher than I might design, is a serious suggestion worthy of debate.
Second, it is not reasonable to argue that there is no single activity that can face higher taxation. If the economy must pivot toward investment and exports, tax policies must be changed to encourage productive investment over consumption.
Two cheers for this first draft of our economic future. If President Obama embraces its structure and Republicans embrace the tradeoffs it presents, the proposal will begin a discussion that, one hopes, will end in fiscal sanity and economic growth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); CHARITIES (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); INCOME TAX (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); INTEREST RATES (72%); VANDALISM (70%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (69%); CORPORATE TAX (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (64%); AFFLUENT MARKET (63%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (61%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (50%)

PERSON: ERSKINE BOWLES (90%); BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2010



581 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1406 words

HEADLINE: Few Jobs Seen in a Weaker Dollar

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH and JACK EWING

 BODY:
A weakening currency traditionally helps a country raise its exports and create more jobs for its workers. But the declining value of the dollar may not help the United States increase economic growth as much as it might have in the past.
Though a weakened dollar would help exports to some degree, business executives and economists said that because of the ways American multinational companies operated, it was uncertain whether it would cause much of an increase in hiring.
The issue is crucial for President Obama, who made economic growth and job creation the main themes of his recent 10-day trip to Asia. He has also held out the prospect that a surge in exports would reduce the nation's stubborn unemployment rate, currently 9.6 percent.
Other world leaders have complained that American policies, especially the monetary easing the Federal Reserve announced this month, will depress the dollar and give American exporters an unfair advantage. 
Mr. Obama and Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner have repeatedly defended the central bank's action as a move designed to encourage American businesses to borrow, invest and hire rather than one specifically aimed at lowering the value of the dollar.
But even if the Fed's action does end up weakening the dollar, American workers may not benefit much. For one, many big American manufacturers, from General Motors to General Electric, often make goods in the countries where they are sold rather than shipping the products abroad. This effectively takes exchange rates out of the equation, since they are using only one currency.
What is more, companies that do send goods to other countries often buy components from abroad, so the advantage of a weaker dollar in selling is offset by the higher cost of buying.
''There are very few corporations that would see this just in one way,'' said Martin Regalia, chief economist at the United States Chamber of Commerce. ''It cuts across a whole bunch of lines.''
Even when a company enjoys a relative surge in foreign sales, it won't necessarily lead to a hiring spree. That is because the largest proportion of American exports are still manufactured goods, which are no longer so labor-intensive.
And many of the companies that still manufacture in this country are businesses that have not gone offshore because they are too small to justify setting up overseas operations. A weak dollar can help their businesses, but it may not prompt a wave of hiring.
''The net export effect is going to be positive, but it won't be the driver of jobs,'' said Daniel J. Meckstroth, chief economist of the Manufacturers Alliance, a trade group. ''You can replace people with machines.''
According to Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at IHS Global Insight, the dollar fell by 31 percent against a basket of major currencies since 2001, as American exports increased by 45 percent. But manufacturing employment dropped by nearly a third in that time, to 11.7 million workers from 16.4 million.
The dollar has already fallen by about 10 percent against a range of currencies since the beginning of June, and government figures show that American exports rose in September by $500 million, or 0.3 percent, to their highest level in two years.
Despite the outcry from other world leaders after the Federal Reserve's decision to inject $600 billion into the economy, the dollar strengthened slightly last week. But even if it does start drifting down again, most economists do not expect the devaluation to be steep. Some argue that most of the weakening has already happened because traders have anticipated the Fed's action for some time.
Gary C. Hufbauer, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, said he expected the dollar to fall another 10 percent in coming months, based on a basket of currencies from countries that trade with the United States.
He estimates that such a decline would lead to about a $100 billion increase in American exports over the next two years, which he believes could translate into about 500,000 jobs. Although Mr. Hufbauer said that number was ''not bad,'' he noted that it would not put much of a dent in the nearly 15 million people who are still out of work.
Another reason increased sales abroad might not translate into American jobs is that American companies have moved steadily overseas in recent decades. The number of workers employed by American companies abroad more than doubled from 1989 to 2008, to 10.5 million, according to the United States Bureau of Economic Analysis. Companies mostly wanted to open up foreign markets, and in some cases take advantage of cheaper labor, studies show, but less vulnerability to currency movements was an important fringe benefit.
With more companies building local factories, exchange rates matter less. General Motors and Volkswagen compete fiercely for business in China, a crucial market where both automakers build almost all their cars locally rather than ship units in from their home countries.
Because the Chinese renminbi tracks the dollar -- meaning that products from the United States should be cheaper than imports from Europe -- G.M. would seem to be at an advantage.
While G.M. has been gaining market share in China, ''it has nothing to do with currencies,'' said Ferdinand Dudenhoffer, director of the Center Automotive Research at the University of Duisburg-Essen in Duisburg, Germany. Rather, he attributes G.M.'s gains to cars like the Chevrolet Sail that have found favor with local consumers.
''The dollar is not a problem for VW or G.M.,'' Mr. Dudenhoffer said.
Experience suggests that currency movements alone are unlikely to correct trade imbalances or lift exports. A decline in the value of the dollar against the yen did little to correct the United States trade deficit with Japan during the 1980s, according to a study released last week by HSBC.
Indeed, some American companies report that a weakening dollar does not enhance export volumes. Roger Sustar, president of Fredon Corporation, a Cleveland-based manufacturer of parts for the aerospace, defense, rail and medical industries, said that although the dollar had weakened against the British pound over the last two years, the company had not increased sales in Britain.
Rather, Mr. Sustar said, existing clients ''haven't been beating the bejeebers out of us to lower our prices.''
Some economists argue that if the dollar weakness lasts long enough it will have some effect on unemployment in the United States. A sustained increase in exports would create jobs throughout the economy as businesses that supported the companies selling abroad also started hiring. ''There's a multiplier effect,'' said Steve Blitz, a senior economist for ITG Investment Research.
Mr. Blitz said that, in fact, the United States economy should rely more heavily on export businesses to create jobs, rather than predominantly depending on American consumers, who account for an estimated 60 percent of the country's economic activity. ''The model of the last 30 years can no longer continue,'' Mr. Blitz said. ''The job creation has to come from the export sector.''
Another potential for jobs will come from foreign companies who build operations in the United States, in part to avoid currency fluctuations going the other way. BMW, for example, broke ground on its first plant in South Carolina in 1992, and in September opened a second factory near Spartanburg, where it had already hired 1,000 workers, with plans to hire 600 more. ''Currency hedging is definitely one piece'' of the company's rationale for building the plants in the United States, said Thomas Kowaleski, a spokesman for BMW North America.
Currency fluctuations are just one part of what makes an American good or service more attractive to foreign buyers. Typically, a weaker dollar has provided a lift to American hotels and tourism destinations, as travelers from Europe and Asia suddenly find their money goes further at Disneyland or Bloomingdale's.
But these days, tourism officials say, travelers have so many locales around the world to choose from that currency moves don't necessarily translate into travel booms.
''Nowadays in the travel world, it's such a competitive market to try and get people to come to your destination,'' said Carol Martinez, a spokeswoman for the Los Angeles Convention and Visitors Bureau. ''The value is a factor but there are many other factors, too.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Shipping containers at the Port of Houston in Texas. A weak dollar can help business but may not mean more hiring. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK GREEN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B1)
 An X3 model at the BMW plant near Spartanburg, S.C. Carmakers build globally, in part as a hedge against currency moves. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED ROLLISON/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); EXPORT PROMOTION (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (70%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (59%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2010



582 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Economy Grows at Annual Rate of 3.9%

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
TOKYO -- The Japanese economy gained momentum in the third quarter, growing at an annualized pace of 3.9 percent, according to data released Monday, as the end of a government stimulus plan gave private consumption a late lift. 
Still, economists warned of an imminent slowdown as a strong yen, faltering exports and the end of generous government incentives for fuel-efficient cars pinched company earnings.
Deflation, or a decline in prices, has also weighed on the recovery from Japan's worst recession since World War II.
Norio Miyagawa, senior economist at Mizuho Securities Research and Consulting, said the growth rate beat expectations but was likely to slow in the months ahead. ''After that, recovery will depend on how the global economy holds up,'' he said.
The data showed that gross domestic product expanded 0.9 percent in the three months through September compared with the previous quarter -- the fourth consecutive quarter of growth in Japan. The increase accelerated from a 0.4 percent gain in the second quarter and beat a median forecast for a 0.6 percent rise.
The expansion translated into an annualized gain of 3.9 percent, topping the annualized expansion of 2 percent in the United States in the same quarter.
But in a sign of slowing demand overseas, net exports made no contribution to economic growth in the third quarter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); DEFLATION (78%); RECESSION (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); WORLD WAR II (55%)

COMPANY: MIZUHO SECURITIES CO LTD (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2010



583 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Cut the Deficit? Try This at Home

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''O.K., You Fix the Budget'' (Week in Review, Nov. 14) provided a useful, enlightening tool for both understanding our nation's deficit and formulating choices over budget cuts. It's a great teaching device that I will use with my college students.
As I completed a plan that spread the pain pretty evenly, I found myself wistfully longing for you to follow up with a menu of political strategies that could actually get us to a balanced budget. 
What would that look like? A few boxes of bipartisanship, a few more of political courage and lots of long-term thinking.
And to rally and educate the public, maybe the economic policy equivalent of the climate change documentary ''An Inconvenient Truth''?
Daniel Press Santa Cruz, Calif., Nov. 14, 2010
The writer is a professor of environmental studies at the University of California, Santa Cruz.
To the Editor:
O.K., I ran the numbers and solved the deficit. It's quite simple: cut military spending, tax carbon and tax the rich.
Ginny Donnelly New York, Nov. 14, 2010
To the Editor:
It took me about 30 minutes to ''fix the budget'' after I accepted the obvious reality that my ''fix'' would cause me and others to have both less money and reduced services. Since I am not a politician, I didn't have to pretend that we could get a free lunch.
Maybe the next political movement can insist that every person running for office submit and defend his or her fix in writing, and then we can choose real change for a change.
Robert B. Shapiro New York, Nov. 15, 2010
To the Editor:
''O.K., You Fix the Budget'' is a fine example of educational journalism. A follow-up assignment might be Strategic Budgeting 201 (perhaps subtitled ''Now the Hard Part''), framing the choices in the areas where we should be applying more resources in order to achieve our long-term goals as a nation.
Bryant Cureton Williamsburg, Va., Nov. 14, 2010
The writer is president emeritus of Elmhurst College in Illinois.
To the Editor:
Your article seems to suggest how difficult cutting the deficit will be. However, after working through the interactive feature on your Web site, ''Budget Puzzle: You Fix the Budget,'' it is clear to me that the dirty little secret is not how difficult it would be to eliminate the deficit, but how easy.
The only ''trick'' is that one must choose both modest spending cuts and reasonable tax increases. Of course, it is naive of me to think that this exercise is anything like the budgetary process in Congress, since it involved an adult making decisions based on facts rather than the usual Congressional posturing, party fealty and putting corporations ahead of constituents.
Darren Gitelman Chicago, Nov. 14, 2010
To the Editor:
We need to consider how tax policy can come to grips with the growing moral, political and economic problem of wealth inequality in this country, and also help solve our deficit. Over the past 30 years, because of a series of government decisions, the superrich have gotten far richer than everyone else, largely at the expense of the middle class and the poor.
The only way to adjust this is to impose an annual tax on net wealth. Because of the large size of their mortgage and other indebtedness, most families probably have no net wealth at all. Even at a modest rate like 1 percent a year, such a tax might go a long way toward eliminating deficits.
Michael H. Goldhaber Oakland, Calif., Nov. 14, 2010
To the Editor:
Only rational discourse based on data and rigorous analyses, rather than ideological posturing and pretzel logic, can bring resolution to the ailing American economy.
Increasing the financial literacy of its citizens (and politicians) is imperative for America to solve its problems. Thank you for encouraging your readers to take pencil to paper so that they better understand the complexity of economic choices that need to be made.
Jenny Gonzalez Toronto, Nov. 14, 2010
To the Editor:
A very engaging interactive budget puzzle. An actual ''adult'' game.
Can both Democrats and Republicans play?
David Todd Surrey, British Columbia, Nov. 14, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ED NACIONAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); WRITERS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); TAX LAW (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (69%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2010



584 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Strong Car Data Helped Retail Sales Jump 1.2%

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Sales at the nation's retailers and food service establishments rose in October, according to government figures released on Monday, providing a glimmer of hope that consumer spending was set to improve in the fourth quarter. 
The Commerce Department said retail sales in October were up 1.2 percent from September, higher than predictions by economists of 0.7 percent.
The October sales were 7.3 percent higher than in October of last year.
The seasonally adjusted figure represents $373.1 billion in sales for October.
The October increase was primarily attributed to a 14 percent gain in motor vehicles and parts sales, and in sales at gasoline stations. The statistics, which were adjusted for seasonal and holiday variations, show that when those components are removed retail sales were also better than expected, registering a 0.4 percent rise.
The Commerce Department statistics were better than the forecasts by economists, and were based on upward revisions in similar sales in August and September. Economists hope they indicate that consumer spending is gaining strength.
With an expected slow recovery in the job market and therefore small gains in wages, growth in consumer spending will be ''modest at best,'' said Joshua Shapiro, the chief United States economist for MFR Inc.
''With autos showing life in September and October, the consumer is doing somewhat better than we would have expected,'' Mr. Shapiro said in a research note.
Clothing sales and building materials sales were stronger, the Commerce Department said.
There were declines in sales of furniture, appliances and department store goods, suggesting that some consumers were still hesitating before buying discretionary items. The figures are advance estimates, and subject to revisions.
The lower department store and electronics sales could reflect a decline in prices as stores try to attract consumers with discounts early in the holiday season, said Yelena Shulyatyeva, a United States economist with BNP Paribas.
Dan Greenhaus, the chief economic strategist for Miller Tabak & Company, said that based on the figures, it was likely that consumption in the fourth quarter could be revised upward, or up to 2.5 percent for fourth-quarter gross domestic product. But that is still well below what would be needed for G.D.P. to bring down the unemployment rate of 9.6 percent.
''Generally speaking the report is quite good,'' Mr. Greenhaus said. ''It is coincident with stable levels of spending, although levels that remain well below that which would be needed to drive significant G.D.P. growth.''
On Monday, the Federal Reserve provided a snapshot of regional New York manufacturing that showed November was considerably weaker than expected.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Retail Sales: Total retail and food services sales, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Commerce Department)
 Inventory-Sales Ratio: Total month-end business inventories divided by total monthly business sales, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (89%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (79%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ELECTRONICS (74%); GAS STATIONS (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (69%); EMPLOYMENT (66%)

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (53%); BNP (BIT) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2010



585 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: DEALBOOK ONLINE; GLOBAL CHALLENGE

BYLINE: By ANITA RAGHAVAN

 BODY:
Hong Kong is making a bold bid to challenge London and New York as global financial centers this week. And judging by its gains in recent years, it might be in the running soon. 
Depicting Hong Kong as the financial center of China, the Financial Services and Treasury Bureau of the government of Hong Kong is hosting a conference on Tuesday to highlight Hong Kong as a reliable source of investment capital.
The timing of the event is opportune for Hong Kong as Western governments consider new regulations on the financial markets. Many market participants in Britain have been vocal about quitting London if regulation becomes overbearing.
The event will bring together leading asset managers, fund managers and economists to discuss Hong Kong's role as China's global financial center.
Of course, Hong Kong has a ways to go before it matches capital-raising in New York and London, the two major financial centers of the world.
So far this year, the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock Market have captured 25.7 percent of the market for global common stock offerings, while Hong Kong has about half that much at 13.1 percent, according to Thomson Reuters.
But Hong Kong has made big strides in just a decade. In 2000, Hong Kong had a share of 3.9 percent, compared with 56.8 percent for the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq, Thomson Reuters data shows. London had a 12.5 percent share in 2000 and now has 6.7 percent of the market share of global common stock offerings.
Strikingly, Hong Kong is actually surpassing both the United States and Britain in their share of initial public offerings. So far this year, the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq have about 9.3 percent of the global market for initial public offerings while Hong Kong has more than twice as much at 22 percent. London, including the AIM market for smaller growing companies, has 4.8 percent. I.P.O.'s are highly correlated to the strength of an economy, and Asia's economies have been booming even as those in the United States and Britain have been struggling amid a tepid recovery. Though Hong Kong had been closing the gap against the United States for I.P.O. market share even before the downturn, the recession paved the way for Hong Kong to overtake the United States. In 2009, for the first time, Hong Kong surpassed the United States with a 23.4 percent market share, which represented about $27 billion in I.P.O.'s.
The United States, with the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq combined, had about 20.6 percent of the I.P.O. market, nearly $24 billion worth, in 2009.
Besides the divergence in economies, Hong Kong has benefited lately from the inroads it has made among non-Asian companies. Earlier this year, UC Rusal, the Russian aluminum giant, raised $2.2 billion by listing on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, and Oleg Deripaska, the Russian oligarch who controls Rusal, has said that Hong Kong remains a top listing venue for Basic Element, a conglomerate he oversees.
Hong Kong also got a big increase when the American Internation Group moved to raise $20.5 billion this year from the listing of its Asian business, American International Assurance, on the Hong Kong exchange.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MARKET SHARE (89%); COMMON STOCK (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (87%); RECESSION (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (50%)

COMPANY: UNITED CO RUSAL LTD (60%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: RUSAL (PAR) (60%); 0486 (HKSE) (60%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331314 SECONDARY SMELTING & ALLOYING OF ALUMINUM (60%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (60%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (60%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) HONG KONG (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2010



586 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: Gazprom, the Russian Energy Giant, Will Drill for Oil in Cuban Waters

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- The Russian energy giant Gazprom has joined a growing list of companies that plan to drill for oil in the waters off Cuba, close to the United States but out of reach of its safety regulators. 
Cuba produces little oil now, but petroleum experts say the country's northern coastal waters could hold plentiful reserves, which could help revive the island's economy and ease its dependence on oil imported from Venezuela. Half a dozen companies have signed deals to work as close as 50 miles off the United States coast, but none from the United States because of the 48-year-old trade embargo.
The oil arm of Gazprom, Gazprom Neft, bought a 30 percent share of four exploration blocks from the Malaysian state-owned company Petronas, Gazprom Neft said in a statement.
Under the agreement, the Russian company will also assume a role in operating offshore drilling platforms. Russian oil firms, which operate mostly on land in Siberia, have little expertise offshore and have sought to form partnerships to gain experience.
Gazprom is buying into an exploration deal Petronas reached with the Cuban government in 2007. Work has already begun. After some seismic work, engineers decided to start drilling next year.
If hydrocarbons are found, the leases that now belong partly to Gazprom, pending approval by the Cuban authorities, extend through 2037 for oil and 2042 for natural gas.
As Cuba has made plans to drill for oil in the Gulf, concern has risen in Florida.
Ocean scientists warn that a well blowout at a site where a Spanish company, Repsol, intends to drill next year could send oil spewing onto Cuban beaches and then the Florida Keys in as little as three days. Repsol has contracted with an Italian operator to build a rig made in China for the deep-water well about 50 miles from the coast of the United States.
Cuba lacks the underwater robots and spare drilling rigs that would be needed to contain a big spill, while the trade embargo could complicate assistance by United States companies.
Other companies, from Norway, India, Venezuela, Vietnam and Brazil, have also taken exploration leases in Cuba.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL EXTRACTION (91%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); BEACHES (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (76%); NATURAL GAS EXPLORATION (74%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); OCEANOGRAPHY (71%)

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM NEFT (93%); OAO GAZPROM (93%); PETROLIAM NASIONAL BHD (83%)

TICKER: SIBN (RTS) (93%); GAZ (LSE) (93%); OGZD (LSE) (93%); GAZP (RTS) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (93%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (93%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (89%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) CUBA (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); MALAYSIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2010



587 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Caterpillar Buys Bucyrus International, An Equipment Maker, for $7.6 Billion

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
Caterpillar is paying $92 a share for Bucyrus, which represents a 32 percent premium over Friday's closing price. Caterpillar said that it would locate the headquarters of its mining business in South Milwaukee, Wis., where Bucyrus is based, and that it would preserve the Bucyrus brand, which dates back to 1880.
Caterpillar announced Monday that it had agreed to buy Bucyrus International for $7.6 billion in cash, making a big bet that emerging markets like China will continue to fuel the commodities boom in the years to come. 
The purchase of Bucyrus will help Caterpillar expand its global footprint in the mining equipment industry and enable it to offer one-stop shopping for its customers, selling things like mining trucks, hydraulic excavators and electric-rope shovels.
Caterpillar executives said that no other company came close to matching that variety of equipment offerings.
''Customers have asked us for a broader product line, and with this move we are answering that call,'' Edward J. Rapp, the Caterpillar chief financial officer, said in a conference call with analysts. ''These two companies were meant for each other.''
Bucyrus specializes in large-scale surface and underground equipment for the extraction of coal, copper and other minerals. The company reported $313 million in net income on $2.65 billion in revenue last year, with more than 60 percent of its sales originating outside of the United States.
Caterpillar is paying $92 a share for Bucyrus, which represents a 32 percent premium over Friday's closing price. Caterpillar said that it would locate the headquarters of its mining business in South Milwaukee, Wis., where Bucyrus is based, and that it would preserve the Bucyrus brand, which dates to 1880.
The deal bets heavily on emerging markets like China, India and Brazil, where continued urbanization is expected to drive demand for commodities like coal, copper and iron ore.
''There's still arguably several billion people out there that will modernize and progress, and that's the play we're making here,'' said Douglas R. Oberhelman, Caterpillar's chief executive. ''It's a macroeconomic play - that this thing continues and sustains itself, which we think it does. And long term, it will be great for this company.''
There is little overlap between Caterpillar's offerings and the products sold by Bucyrus, the companies said. Caterpillar noted that at many mine sites, workers use Bucyrus shovels to load Caterpillar mining trucks.
In large part because of the complementary product lines, Caterpillar said the acquisition should exceed $400 million in cost savings by 2015.
Timothy W. Sullivan, the Bucyrus president and chief executive, said he came to an agreement with Caterpillar after Mr. Oberhelman approached him and the two executives realized how tightly the companies' offerings would fit together.
The deal is the biggest splash yet by Mr. Oberhelman, who became chief on July 1. ''It is a strong statement about our belief in the bright future of the mining industry,'' he said.
There had been little indication that Bucyrus was planning to sell. To the contrary, the company agreed last December to pay $1.3 billion for the mining business of the heavy-equipment manufacturer Terex, which has a strong presence in China and Indonesia.
Shares of Bucyrus rose $20.18, or 29 percent, to $89.80. Shares of Bucyrus's most comparable peer, Joy Global, also rose, increasing more than 7 percent on speculation that it could be a takeover target for a Caterpillar competitor like Komatsu or Hitachi Construction.
Investors in Caterpillar evidently approved, too. Its shares rose 78 cents, or about 1 percent, to $81.82.
Analysts said that while there was no question that Caterpillar was paying a hefty price for Bucyrus, the availability of cheap debt made that premium acceptable. They said the clout that the combined company would have would make it appealing to customers, who increasingly wanted to save money by reducing the number of suppliers with which they contracted.
Above all else, perhaps, the deal signals that Caterpillar is doubling down its mining business.
''It's a big bet on commodities, a big bet on emerging economies,'' said Adam Fleck, an analyst with Morningstar. He added, ''With a purchase price this full, it doesn't give much in terms of wiggle room if they are wrong.''
The deal is the third significant purchase by Caterpillar, based in Peoria, Ill., in recent months. Three weeks ago, the company purchased the German engine maker MWM Holding from the British private equity firm 3i, and in June, Caterpillar bought the locomotive manufacturer Electro-Motive Diesel.
JPMorgan Chase advised Caterpillar, and will provide financing. Mayer Brown, Sidley Austin and Howrey served as legal advisers for Caterpillar. Deutsche Bank and UBS advised Bucyrus. Sullivan & Cromwell and Arnold & Porter served as legal advisers for Bucyrus.
Caterpillar is paying $92 a share for Bucyrus, which represents a 32 percent premium over Friday's closing price. Caterpillar said that it would locate the headquarters of its mining business in South Milwaukee, Wis., where Bucyrus is based, and that it would preserve the Bucyrus brand, which dates back to 1880.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.
Online Correction: November 15, 2010, Monday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A previous version of this post misstated a deal between Bucyrus and Terex. Bucyrus recently purchased the mining operation of Terex, not the entire company.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Caterpillar said that at many mine sites, Bucyrus shovels are used to load Caterpillar trucks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN HILGER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); COAL MINING (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); COAL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); CONFERENCE CALLS (67%)

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC (92%)

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (92%); CATR (PAR) (92%); CAT (SWX) (92%); CAT (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY W SULLIVAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (93%) WISCONSIN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2010



588 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Bond Sell-Off in Spite of Intervention By Fed Puzzles Traders and Analysts

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY and CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve's much-anticipated announcement this month that it was intervening in financial markets was intended to push down interest rates to get the economy moving again.
But since it unveiled its $600 billion bond buying program on Nov. 3, the opposite has happened.
Again on Monday, bond markets sold off aggressively, pushing the benchmark 10-year Treasury yield back up to 2.96 percent. That is close to where the yield was three months ago when the new policy of so-called quantitative easing was first suggested by the Fed. 
The yield has jumped from about 2.55 percent since Nov. 8.
It is an aggressive sell-off that has left traders and policy makers mystified, and spawned a number of theories.
For instance, some wondered whether the fierce attacks on the Fed's policy by Republicans meant that the central bank would not extend the program beyond $600 billion, as some economists had predicted. In light of the political reaction, the Fed might not even complete the full program of $600 billion, they warned.
''They are an independent central bank, but the fact is they are not totally immune from political pressure,'' said Zach Pandl, economist at Nomura in New York. ''The Fed has to take the criticism seriously.''
The Fed intervened in the markets again on Monday, buying about $7.9 billion in Treasuries. But Mr. Pandl said a more likely reason for the sell-off was that the policy of quantitative easing had already had its intended effect.
In the months since markets started pricing in the expectation of huge amounts of bond buying, yields fell with the dollar. Rates in the financial markets were now shifting higher in expectation of faster growth in the months ahead, he said.
But there were other theories, too. In recent weeks, the price of the 30-year Treasury bond has fallen even faster, pushing its yield up. As a result, the gap between the 10-year and 30-year yields is wider.
Some economists say that means the market may be signaling fears that the Fed is losing control of inflation, so interest rates will have to rise sharply to head this off. But others contend that most of the movement in yields was a result of changes in real yields, and there was little pick-up in inflation expectations, at least in short-term bonds.
Meanwhile, stocks ended mostly flat on Monday, raising questions about whether the increase in bond yields is dampening the recent rally in the stock market.
Since the Fed began buying bonds, ''Treasury yields are higher, and the equity price rally is stuttering, at best,'' Neal Soss, economist at Credit Suisse, wrote in a research note.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed with a gain of 9.39 points, or 0.08 percent, to 11,201.97. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was slightly lower by 1.46 points, or 0.1 percent, at 1,197.75. The Nasdaq composite index, which includes many technology stocks, declined 4.39 points, or 0.2 percent, to 2,513.82.
Markets on Monday did get an early boost after merger news. The industrials sector rose after Caterpillar agreed to buy Bucyrus International, which specializes in large-scale surface and underground equipment for minerals extraction, for $7.6 billion in cash. The purchase will help Caterpillar expand its global footprint in the mining equipment industry. Caterpillar shares rose nearly 1 percent, or 78 cents, to $81.82, and Bucyrus was up 29 percent, or $20.18, to $89.80.
Despite bond-market worries, the stock market is still trading near its highest levels for the year. The Dow and S.& P. are up more than 7 percent and the Nasdaq is up 10.98 percent this year.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BONDS (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); STOCK INDEXES (76%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2010



589 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Foreclosures Raise New Concerns About Banks, Panel Says

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
The foreclosure documentation crisis could have severe consequences for the housing market and economy, a Congressional panel warns in a report scheduled to be released Tuesday.
In the worst case, the banks will choke on the volume of bad loans they could be forced to reabsorb, leading to another financial crisis, the panel said. But the panel, which was set up after the financial crisis two years ago, also allowed for the possibility that concerns over paperwork irregularities will prove overblown and the crisis will recede.
''Despite assurances by banks and Treasury to the contrary, great uncertainty remains as to whether the stability of banks and the housing market might be at risk,'' the report by the Congressional Oversight Panel said. It recommended giving banks new stress tests. 
Against this backdrop of stark uncertainty, the Senate Banking Committee is holding a hearing Tuesday that will include testimony from Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase, two of the banks at the center of the turmoil.
Both lenders instituted freezes on foreclosures recently as they were forced to re-examine their procedures. Both have maintained that whatever missteps their personnel might have made in filling out court papers, much is being made out of little. No one lost their house who should not have, the banks say.
The hearing is titled ''Problems in Mortgage Servicing From Modification to Foreclosure,'' which will give senators a rich array of potential topics. Lenders have maintained since the beginning of the recession that they favor modifying loans over seizing houses, but their numerous critics say it rarely seems to work out that way in reality.
''The bankers face a potentially difficult situation,'' said Peter Swire, a law professor at Ohio State who stepped down last summer as an Obama administration official. ''If they provide details, lots of them won't be pretty. If they don't provide details, it may look like they're stonewalling.''
A spokesman for JPMorgan Chase declined to comment.
In prepared testimony, Bank of America said it was streamlining the process for borrowers fighting foreclosure.
The freezes, which have varied in approach and duration, do not seem to have had much effect on overall foreclosure volume.
RealtyTrac, a foreclosure listing service, said that in October, for the 20th consecutive month, the number of families getting a foreclosure notice exceeded 300,000. As many as four million families face foreclosure.
Only a small fraction of those who want and need help receive it. The government program aimed at encouraging banks to restructure loans to keep distressed borrowers in their houses has resulted in permanent new loans for about a half-million families.
The hearing this week will not affect that cruel dynamic, said John Taylor, president of the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, an association of 600 local groups. ''When you boil it down, these hearings are nothing but a show,'' Mr. Taylor said. ''Foreclosures will continue to mount but the legislative response will blow over.''
If Mr. Taylor blamed Congress, the Congressional Oversight Panel blamed the Obama administration. The panel, led by Senator Ted Kaufman, a Democrat from Delaware, includes Damon Silvers, director of policy and special counsel to the A.F.L.-C.I.O., and Richard H. Neiman, New York superintendent of banks. Until September, Elizabeth Warren was chairwoman of the panel. She is now overseeing development of the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
In its report, the panel criticized as ''premature'' a statement by a Treasury official, Phyllis Caldwell, that there was ''no indication'' the foreclosure crisis presented a threat to the entire mortgage system.
The Treasury fired back at the accusations of complacency, saying 11 federal regulators were coordinating on this issue and they had not found evidence to date of a systemic threat to the broader financial system.
''We strongly believe that the reported behavior within the mortgage servicer industry is simply unacceptable, and servicers who have failed to follow the law must be held accountable,'' a Treasury spokesman, Mark Paustenbach, said.
A second Congressional hearing on mortgage servicing will be held on Thursday by the House Committee on Financial Services.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); TESTIMONY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE LISTING SERVICES (73%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2010



590 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: As Payouts Rise, New Tactics By the U.S. Pension Insurer

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
Even though the government pension agency made sharply higher payments to retirees of bankrupt companies last year, it is using new legal tools to make hobbled companies carry more of the burden and protect itself.
The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, which insures corporate pension plans, disclosed on Monday that it paid about $5.6 billion to retirees in its last fiscal year, about 22 percent more than in 2009. The number of retirees it pays each month rose to more than 800,000, as 172 more pension plans collapsed, including those at Crucible Materials, Fraser Papers, Hartmarx and Saint Vincent Catholic Medical Centers.
But the program's long-term deficit held steady at $23 billion, mainly because the rising payouts were offset by good investment returns on assets in its trust fund. 
''We are now climbing out of the worst recession in generations, and the financial situation of the P.B.G.C. has remained the same,'' said Joshua Gotbaum, who became director of the guarantee agency four months ago. He said that staying in place under these conditions was a kind of victory.
On one hand, the program began paying benefits to 109,000 more retirees over the past year, he said, but on the other, it negotiated with dozens of bankrupt companies to keep their pension plans when they emerged from Chapter 11. Had the government taken over all those ailing pension plans, he said, it would be paying benefits to another 250,000 people.
The federal pension insurance program is supposed to be self-financing, but it has been losing billions of dollars in recent years because of corporate bankruptcies, including some substantial ones, with insolvent pension funds. In some cases, whole industries, like steelmaking, appear to have used the federal pension insurance program over the years to unload their debts -- promises to their workers -- and emerge more profitable.
The pension law was amended in 2006 to tighten up the funding rules and make companies close their pension shortfalls more quickly. But the results have been mixed, in part because soon after the financial collapse of 2008, Congress delayed the rules, to shield companies.
There have been other setbacks too. The program's investment strategy has zigzagged disconcertingly in recent years, and its outside auditor has warned that its systems for safeguarding electronic data are inadequate.
Despite the delay in tightening the new funding rules, Mr. Gotbaum said the government had been able to take advantage of another new rule allowing it to force companies to pump more money into their pension funds during major plant closings or layoffs. This does not reduce the P.B.G.C.'s deficit, but it reduces its exposure, because the companies might otherwise let their pension funds languish as they reduce their work forces, a time when pension obligations often grow.
Companies have put an additional $250 million into their pension funds at the government's insistence since it started applying the new rule, Mr. Gotbaum said. Visteon, an auto parts maker that closed two big plants in Indiana before declaring bankruptcy in 2009, contributed $25 million of that amount.
The government's lawyers have also been fighting in court to make bankrupt companies hold onto their pension funds, rather than dumping them in a reorganization.
The pension agency had a big win in the case of Visteon, spun off by Ford Motor. Visteon filed for Chapter 11 in May 2009, and said in December that it planned to terminate three of its four pension funds, leaving about $544 million in unfunded obligations. The P.B.G.C. calculated that Visteon's retirees would bear about $100 million of the loss, because pension insurance is limited in a formula based on age, the amount earned and other factors.
The government began preparing a court objection to Visteon's reorganization plan, arguing the company could afford to keep its pension plans. Bankrupt companies are allowed to shed their pension funds only if they can convince the judge that there is no other way to emerge from Chapter 11. After months of haggling, Visteon emerged from bankruptcy last month with all four plans intact.
The other 34 companies that kept their pension plans after restructuring in bankruptcy included Lear Corporation, LyondellBasel Industries and Smurfit-Stone Container Corporation.
Those outcomes contrast sharply with the bankruptcies of companies like United Airlines and Delphi, in which the government had to take over the pension plans at a big loss. Retirees of those companies also lost benefits, and some of them are still contesting the outcomes in court.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joshua Gotbaum 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); CLOSINGS (73%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (70%); HEALTH CARE (70%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (69%); LAYOFFS (60%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (50%)

COMPANY: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (72%); FRASER PAPERS INC (57%); HMX LLC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (72%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (72%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (57%); NAICS321113 SAWMILLS (57%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (57%); SIC2421 SAWMILLS & PLANING MILLS, GENERAL (57%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2337 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' SUITS, SKIRTS, & COATS (57%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (57%); SIC2311 MEN'S & BOYS' SUITS, COATS, & OVERCOATS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2010



591 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: A Little Extra on the Road

BYLINE: By LIZ GALST

 BODY:
Corporate accountants have long known that otherwise law-abiding people commit travel expense fraud.
And while new software programs help detect fraud, businesses report that travel fraud increased in the last few years as the distressed economy put more financial pressure on both employees and employers.
''I don't think people always take the view that falsifying expense claims is a criminal act,'' said John Verver, vice president for services and product strategy at ACL Services, a provider of financial monitoring software and expertise. 
Or as Michael Bechara, managing director of the Granite Consulting Group, an internal auditing and corporate accounting firm in Brewster, N.Y., put it, ''People say to themselves, 'If I want to pick up some sweatshirts for the kids, or have a big dinner, that's what the company owes me for the inconvenience of being on the road.' ''
One of the most highly publicized cases involved Mark V. Hurd, who was ousted as chief executive of Hewlett-Packard in August for authorizing more than $75,000 in payments and expenses for an occasional contractor when the company's employees traveled under more austere conditions.
The case opened the window onto the issue. ''Even at Hurd's level, this is an everyday occurrence in American business,'' said Jo Ann McGee, chairwoman of the department of accounting and business law at Louisiana State University in Shreveport.
While there are no hard figures on the costs of travel expense fraud to American companies and organizations, estimates range as high as billions of dollars a year. A report last year by the Inc. Business Owners Council, an organization of family business owners, found that business fraud, over all, increased by two-thirds from 2006 to 2009. The Association of Certified Fraud Examiners reported earlier this year that the typical company lost 5 percent of its annual revenue to employee fraud and abuse and 15 percent of that was tied to expense reporting fraud.
''For many companies, it's like being nibbled away by little piranhas rather than being eaten by a big shark,'' Mr. Verver said.
Fraud schemes run the gamut from the minor to the extreme, the accounting experts said. Falsified taxi receipts are a favorite, thanks in part to the stacks of blank receipts drivers hand out in many cities. So, too, are faked business trip expenses.
''Let's say I'm an executive and don't have to fly coach,'' Mr. Bechara said. ''I'll buy a first-class ticket. Then I'll cash it in for two coach tickets and take my wife or my girlfriend with me. When I take them to dinner, if the bill is too high, I'll put down that I took a customer.''
Mr. Bechara said that the tone that top executives set might also contribute. ''The more lavish, the more loose they are with spending, the more likely lower-ranking people are willing to say, 'They're spending a lot; so will I.' ''
Manual expense report filing systems can also contribute. ''With manual forms, the guy could add up the expenses wrong on purpose and hope that nobody catches it,'' Mr. Bechara said. ''$100 plus $100 equals $300.''
Scanners and laser printers also make it easier to fake and alter receipts. One company Mr. Verver said he consulted with required no authorization for reimbursements under $25. ''But, one employee managed to ''rack up over $100,000 of 'expenses' over the course of three years,'' he said. ''Every day, this guy was pushing through a couple of 'expenses.' ''
The recession, in particular, has contributed to travel expense fraud, said Craig Fearon, senior product director at CyberShift, an employee expense software firm. ''In some cases, people are more desperate and they're looking for a way to make a few extra bucks. Maybe their commissions are down. Their spouse is unemployed. There's an old saying in sales, 'If you can't sell, drive.' You'll get reimbursed for the mileage.''
Moreover, layoffs in accounting and internal auditing departments mean fewer employees are available to verify expense reports.
Even so, experts say, organizations can make fraud significantly less likely. ''First and foremost,'' said Scott Grossfeld, chief executive of the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners, ''make sure there's a defined travel policy in place and that employees know what the policies are.''
Professor McGee said organizations should require employees to turn in original receipts. And, she said, ''a direct supervisor should always be the one who's approving that expense reimbursement.'' Companies like Microsoft, ACL Services, CyberShift and Concur say they have software programs that provide the kind of data analysis that can make sizable cuts in fraud. (The New York Times uses Concur.)
Patrick Daksol, an accountant, said that when the medical devices company he used to work for switched from manual to electronic expense reporting, ''all sorts of altering of receipts got nipped in the bud.''
Concur's software even imports electronic receipts directly from hotel chains and rental car companies. ''If I get the receipt directly from Hilton,'' said Concur's president and chief operating officer, Rajeev Singh, ''you can't change it with your laser printer.''
But new technologies will not eliminate travel expense fraud, the accounting experts said. With the new technologies, Mr. Verver said, ''The average person who takes liberties with their expense claims, they're the sort of person who will stop.'' But, he added, there will always be some employees ''motivated enough to get away with it.''

CORRECTION-DATE: November 18, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An article on the Itineraries pages on Tuesday about expense account fraud by business travelers described incorrectly the allegations against Hewlett-Packard's chief executive, Mark V. Hurd, that led to his resignation last August. As reported at the time, the H.P. board criticized him for authorizing more than $75,000 in payments and expenses for an occasional contractor when the company's employees traveled under more austere conditions. The board did not allege that he falsified his expense reports.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Bechara, whose company audits expense accounting, said top executives set the tone on cheating. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCUS YAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (79%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (78%); COMMERCIAL LAW (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (74%); COMPANY STRATEGY (74%); AUDITS (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (54%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: MARK HURD (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (74%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010



592 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
SOUTHERN SUDANESE REGISTER
To Vote on Secession
Sudan, the largest country in Africa, is on the verge of splitting up, with the south about to vote on whether to secede from the north after decades of war, mistrust and marginalization. Judging by the mood in the capital of southern Sudan, the differences seemed irreconcilable. PAGE A4
NORTH KOREAN DEFECTIONS 
Defections from North Korea have risen markedly in recent years, South Korean officials said, driven both by worsening economic conditions and more news from abroad filtering into the secretive communist state. PAGE A8
National
COURT BACKS IN-STATE TUITION
For Illegal Immigrants
In a unanimous decision, the California Supreme Court ruled that illegal immigrants can be eligible for the same reduced tuition at public colleges and universities as legal residents of the state. PAGE A20
MORE AID FOR STORM VICTIMS
Federal and state officials announced the creation of a $133 million program to address housing problems that remain for poor Mississippi residents five years after Hurricane Katrina. PAGE A19
CHANGES AT ADVOCACY GROUP
Liberty Central, the conservative organization founded last year by Virginia Thomas, the wife of the Supreme Court justice Clarence Thomas, appears to be confronting major changes, including the possibility that Ms. Thomas will step aside. PAGE A18
New York
OPPOSITION TO SELECTION
For Schools Chief Is Growing
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has been frank about why he took pains to keep his search for a new schools chancellor secret, saying he wanted to avoid a public spectacle. But since the mayor announced his choice of Cathleen P. Black, a publishing executive, to succeed Joel I. Klein at the helm of the country's largest school system, his aides have been trying to fend off growing skepticism about her selection.PAGE A23
Business
FACEBOOK OFFERS NEW TOOL
For Online Messaging
Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's chief executive, introduced a unified messaging system for the site that allows people to communicate with one another on the Web and on mobile phones regardless of whether they are using e-mail, text messages or online chat services. The new service, Facebook Messages, is a bold move by Facebook to expand from a social network into a full-fledged communications system. PAGE B1
FEW JOBS IN WEAKER DOLLAR
A weakening currency traditionally helps a country raise its exports and create more jobs for its workers. But the declining value of the dollar may not help the United States increase economic growth as much as it might have in the past. PAGE B1
G.M.'S PUBLIC OFFERING
General Motors is riding a wave of investor enthusiasm, and is likely to fetch a higher price than previously expected for its initial public stock offering, set to start Thursday. PAGE B1
Arts
AUTHOR TAKES ANOTHER LOOK
At Unique Taste of Millions
Christian Lander's ''Whiter Shades of Pale,'' the sequel to his first book, ''Stuff White People Like,'' is another ironic look at that demographic slice of educated people who are drawn to places with good cheese stores, coffee bars and indie bands. Review by Dwight Garner. PAGE C1
Sports
A COACH LIFTS DETROIT,
With a Boost From His Son
The University of Detroit Mercy has had a few glory years in the nearly 100-year history of its basketball program, but its head coach, Ray McCallum, took it over during a prolonged dip. He still engineered the most drastic turnaround in program history, finishing 20-14 last season and winning a prized recruit in the process: his son. PAGE B12
RETHINKING RETIREMENT
Haile Gebrselassie of Ethiopia, the distance-running star who stunningly announced his retirement after dropping out of the New York City Marathon on Nov. 7, said he had reconsidered and would continue racing. PAGE B15
Science Times
A DOCTOR TO PRESIDENTS
Tells of the Job's Rigors
The job of White House physician combines professional responsibility with the glamour and trappings of proximity to history. Now a recent holder of that job has written an account of her nine-year tenure under three presidents, Bill Clinton and both George Bushes. PAGE D1
Op-ed
BOB HERBERT PAGE A27
DAVID BROOKS PAGE A27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); US DOLLAR (84%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); IMMIGRATION (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); JOB CREATION (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); LITIGATION (75%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); HURRICANE KATRINA (73%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (70%); WRITERS (69%); SOCIAL MEDIA (68%); TEXT MESSAGING (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (67%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (61%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (61%); STOCK OFFERINGS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (53%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: CLARENCE THOMAS (74%); MARK ZUCKERBERG (73%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%); CATHLEEN BLACK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) SUDAN (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2010



593 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: With Tea Party in Mind, Republicans Have Change of Heart About Earmarks

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE; David M. Herszenhorn and Jennifer Steinhauer contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Senate Republicans opened the lame-duck session of Congress on Monday by signaling their commitment to the antispending posture that fueled their big gains on Election Day, underscoring the Tea Party movement's influence on the Republican leadership.
Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, drove the point home as soon as the Senate convened by announcing that he would support a proposed ban on Congressional earmarks, reversing his longtime practice of avidly pursuing money for his state. 
''Old habits aren't easy to break, but sometimes they must be,'' said Mr. McConnell, who in the past had boasted about the tens of millions of dollars he steered home.
The move by Mr. McConnell was a clear sign that Republicans believe they need to be responsive to the Tea Party activists and the conservatives who helped them gain six seats in the Senate and win control of the House come January. It was also a victory for Senator Jim DeMint, the South Carolina Republican and Tea Party hero, who has championed a nonbinding change in party rules that would bar Republicans from seeking what is officially known as congressionally directed spending.
Republicans in the House and Senate are to vote this week on prohibiting earmarks, which have become a symbol of government excess and backroom dealing, although they account for a very small part of the overall budget. Mr. McConnell's endorsement of the ban effectively settled the question in the Senate. Some of his colleagues remain interested in winning earmarks, however, arguing that they should have some say in how federal dollars are spent in their states.
Mr. McConnell's move also put pressure on Democrats to move in the same direction and highlighted a potential clash between President Obama, who has criticized earmark spending, and top Senate Democrats, who have shown no willingness to ban the practice.
Mr. Obama said he welcomed Mr. McConnell's remarks. ''But,'' he said in a statement, ''we can't stop with earmarks, as they represent only part of the problem. In the days and weeks to come, I look forward to working with Democrats and Republicans to not only end earmark spending but to find other ways to bring down our deficits for our children.''
Senator Tom Harkin, an Iowa Democrat and a veteran member of the Appropriations Committee, said ''the president is dead wrong on this issue.''
''I think there's a valid and good reason why senators and congressmen should be able to direct certain monies,'' Mr. Harkin said.
A spokesman for Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, said individual senators should decide if they favor earmarks. Because Democrats will retain control of the Senate in the next Congress, a decision by them to continue allowing earmarks could keep the practice alive, at least in spending bills passed by the upper chamber.
The focus on earmarks to some degree obscured bigger questions about spending and the commitment of both parties to rein in budget deficits. And it did nothing to resolve a range of thorny tax and spending issues dividing the two parties in the lame-duck session.
Without Congressional action, a series of tax cuts enacted a decade ago will expire, and a stop-gap measure financing the federal government is due to run out early next month. Democrats would also like to extend unemployment benefits and ratify a nuclear arms reduction treaty with Russia.
''The American voters sent us a message two Tuesdays ago,'' said Mr. Reid, who survived a serious re-election challenge. ''That message is that they want us to deliver. They want us to work together.''
Whether the parties will be able to do so is open to question. Outside the Capitol, Tea Party activists cheered veteran Republicans as well as newcomers who promised to push against new spending and taxes, and they ridiculed the lame-duck session.
''Hail Gridlock,'' one sign said.
Republicans battered Democrats on Nov. 2, but they will not be able to take control of the House until the start of the 112th Congress on Jan. 5. As a result, defeated members of Congress are arriving to cast their last votes and clear out their offices while their triumphant opponents are attending orientation sessions and celebrations.
Two new members of the Senate -- Chris Coons of Delaware and Joe Manchin III of West Virginia -- were sworn in Monday ahead of other winners because they were elected to fill out the unexpired terms of Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and the Senator Robert C. Byrd, who died last summer.
But since they were both Democrats, their party -- for this week, at least -- maintained a 59-to-41 majority in the Senate. The partisan balance is not expected to shift until after Thanksgiving, when Representative Mark Steven Kirk, the Republican senator-elect from Illinois, is to be sworn in to the seat that had been held by President Obama.
Although they cannot yet vote, members of the incoming class of 13 new Republican senators and more than 80 new Republican House members are making themselves heard in the hallways and to the activists gathered on the Capitol grounds.
''This infamous freshmen class will not let you down,'' Representative-elect Frank Guinta, Republican of New Hampshire, told the anti-lame-duck rally.
Given their losses, Senate Democrats began to make postelection adjustments to prepare for the new political dynamic on Capitol Hill and for a number of potentially difficult races in 2012.
Mr. Reid, in a letter to colleagues, said he was naming Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, who is credited with propelling Democrats to the majority in 2006 as chairman of the party's campaign committee, leader of a new combined policy and strategic communications operation.
Much of the day's attention was on the incoming freshmen who moved in and out of training sessions and found themselves questioned about plans for the days and weeks ahead, even as they tried to get their bearings.
Chip Cravaack, a Republican who defeated veteran Representative Jim Oberstar in Minnesota's Eighth District, was a bit undone himself by his police escort. ''It kind of hit me, the seriousness of what we're doing,'' he said. ''I'm here.''
In the Senate, newly elected members had lunch together in the Capitol at a bipartisan gathering unlikely to be repeated often. They heard a panel discussion on ''how to survive the next few weeks.''
Some basic lessons were apparently left off the agenda. Senator-elect Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, stepped into the corridor, looked at a group of reporters and asked, ''Restroom?'' He was shown the way.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator-elect Marco Rubio, a Republican and Tea Party favorite in Florida, headed to a meeting with Senator Mitch McConnell. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Senator Jim DeMint, Republican of South Carolina, met with Tea Party activists protesting the lame-duck Congress. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Senator Chris Coons took the oath of office from Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. He was elected to Mr. Biden's old seat.
 Rick Crawford of Arkansas, who will be among the Republican freshmen in the House in January, sat for his photo ID. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); BUDGETS (75%); LEGISLATION (73%); US PRESIDENTS (68%)

PERSON: MITCH MCCONNELL (90%); JIM DEMINT (73%); JOE BIDEN (73%); RICK CRAWFORD (58%); HARRY REID (58%); CHRIS COONS (58%); MARCO RUBIO (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2010



594 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: A New G.M., but Not an End to the Bailout Era

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH and NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
After the bailout, now comes the bail-in.
Sixteen months after the wheels came off General Motors, the remodeled G.M. is racing back to the stock market.
It seems hard to believe. G.M. actually has Wall Street panting. Investors are lining up for what is expected to be one of the largest initial public stock offerings in American history.
This offering, expected to be priced Wednesday, is a significant milestone for G.M. and the entire era of big bailouts. 
But as G.M. moves into its post-bailout period, Washington is still contending with other costly rescues stemming from the financial collapse of 2008. While the G.M. offering is expected to raise at least $16 billion, the federal government remains deeply enmeshed in American business. Tens of billions of taxpayer dollars have yet to be repaid. Many billions, in all likelihood, never will be.
The final accounting is still years off. Some experts warn that now that Washington has come to the rescue of big companies once, it will be far easier for it to do so again. The bailouts of big banks, Detroit automakers and others, like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, have, to some, laid the groundwork for future bailouts.
''If you can do this for one of the largest companies in the U.S., what happens when the next big crisis approaches,'' said Hirotaka Takeuchi, a professor at Harvard Business School. ''It may send the wrong signal to the rest of the world.''
What is more, though a boom on Wall Street has enabled the government to actually make a profit on many of the stakes it took in financial companies, Washington will probably never recover all of the money handed out to other beneficiaries, like the mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. And in some cases, billions more may still have to be shelled out.
Even in the best case, the government will have to pour an extra $6 billion into Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, whose implicit public guarantees suddenly became explicit when the housing market deteriorated in 2008. A more likely projection calls for a $19 billion injection, according to the Federal Housing Finance Agency.
And though most of the big banks have repaid the money the government provided at the height of the financial crisis, Washington still owns nearly all of the American International Group, the insurance giant that has swallowed more than $130 billion in government aid.
In fact, the government's stake in A.I.G. is going up, not down, rising to 92.1 percent from 79.8 percent under a complex restructuring plan that will be completed early next year.
Then there is GMAC, now known as Ally Financial. Washington anted up about $17 billion to keep it afloat in 2009, but the aid came with fewer strings attached than the financial support for General Motors and Chrysler. The government will not recoup that money any time soon, and it retains a 55 percent stake in the lender.
Indeed, the government's involvement in a broad swath of industries will continue to linger.
The boards of G.M. and GMAC include several members that the Treasury helped hand-pick, while regulators are swarming the trading floors and mortgage collection operations at the nation's biggest banks to try to avert a replay of the financial crisis. And the government is still on the hook for tens of billions in guarantees it provided on debt issues by banks during the financial crisis.
Jonathan Koppell, director of Arizona State University's School of Public Affairs, said that although the General Motors offering was a step in the right direction, ''it doesn't mean this strange period of government ownership is in our rear-view mirror.''
''Once you introduce the possibility of state intervention in support of failing firms,'' he said, ''the marketplace is fundamentally altered, even after government relinquishes its ownership.''
To be sure, the government has reaped a $28 billion profit on what has been repaid so far. But bailout beneficiaries still owe $180 billion to Washington, or just under half of the $384 billion of federal money laid out during the crisis. Even the $25 billion the government will earn in the coming months as it sells its remaining stakes in G.M. and Citigroup will not make much of a dent in paying it all back.
Before that happens, both companies have to follow through with exit strategies.
At G.M., the government injected about $49 billion to stabilize the company and help it through bankruptcy.
G.M. has repaid $7 billion, and the government will receive $12 billion more this week from its share of the stock offering, assuming the shares are priced in the upper range of expectations, from $31 to $33. Even then, the Treasury Department could be sitting on a $7 billion to $9 billion loss. The investment in Citigroup is expected to fare better, yielding a profit of more than $11 billion.
All told, the government estimates that its other bank investments will yield a lifetime gain of over $9 billion. Most of that comes from the dividend payments and other income it took when the big institutions, like Bank of America, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, paid back their bailout money. About 590 smaller lenders have yet to repay roughly $38 billion.
After its controversial rescue of A.I.G., the government is now on track to realize a $17 billion gain from that investment when it eventually sells its 92 percent stake. The Federal Reserve is also on track to reap an $11 billion windfall from the assets it took when it made an enormous loan to A.I.G. at the height of the crisis.
The path to profitability from the government's investments in Chrysler and GMAC is less clear. For now, the government retains a 10 percent stake in Chrysler, as well as a large loan backed by the company's assets. It also owns a 55 percent stake in GMAC and could ultimately wind up owning more than 80 percent of that company. Exit plans have not been completed, but they could involve an initial public stock offering or another stock sale.
But the real money pits are Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-controlled mortgage finance giants. So far, they have been kept alive with $150 billion in taxpayer money. Even after the dividends it will receive from the two companies over the next decade, the government could ultimately sustain a $55 billion loss, according to administration data for the 2010 budget. Some of that money could be recouped from income from the assets in the companies' portfolios.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The pricing for General Motors's initial public offering is expected on Wednesday. Investors are lining up for what is expected to be one of the largest offerings in American history. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF KOWALSKY/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4) CHART: THE GOVERNMENT BAILOUT (Sources: Treasury Department
Congressional Budget Office
 Office of Management and Budget) (B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); HISTORY (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); INSURANCE (72%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (72%); STOCK OFFERINGS (72%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (85%); ALLY FINANCIAL INC (72%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (70%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (62%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (62%); 8685 (TSE) (62%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (85%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (85%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (72%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (72%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (70%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



595 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: DOLAN IS PICKED AS THE LEADER OF U.S. BISHOPS

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN

 BODY:
BALTIMORE -- The United States Conference of Catholic Bishops elected Archbishop Timothy M. Dolan of New York to be its president on Tuesday in a surprise move that reaffirmed the conservative direction of the Roman Catholic Church in America.
The vote makes Archbishop Dolan the most visible face of the church in the United States. It also suggested that the bishops were seeking a powerful and reliably orthodox voice to reassert the church's teaching in the court of public opinion and to disarm critics who insist that the bishops have lost their moral authority as a result of their role in the sexual abuse scandals. 
For the first time, the bishops overlooked tradition and passed over a vice president who was running for the presidency, Bishop Gerald Kicanas of Tucson. Bishop Kicanas represents the more liberal ''social justice'' tradition of the American church and is known for advocating dialogue between Catholic liberals and traditionalists. Archbishop Dolan is considered a moderate conservative.
Archbishop Dolan said in a news conference after the vote that he would carry on the forceful opposition of his predecessor, Cardinal Francis George of Chicago, to the recent health care overhaul because the bishops believed it would permit expanded government financing for abortion.
''My major priority would be to continue with all vigor I can muster what's already in place,'' Archbishop Dolan said. ''It's not like we're in crisis; it's not like all of a sudden we need some daring new initiatives. Thank God for the leadership of Cardinal Francis George, things are going well.''
Archbishop Dolan also suggested that he would not countenance other Catholic leaders and organizations when they take public positions that contradict the bishops. That is what happened this year when some groups representing Catholic hospitals and nuns came out in support of the health care overhaul bill, despite the bishops' staunch opposition.
''We're pastors and teachers,'' Archbishop Dolan said of the bishops' role, ''not just one set of teachers in the Catholic community, but the teachers.''
Archbishop Dolan's election consolidates the gradual shift in leadership and priorities for the bishops' conference, which from the 1970s through the 1990s issued decrees on more traditionally liberal concerns like economic inequality, workers rights, the environment and peace. While the bishops still do take up issues like immigration and poverty, they are far more focused on shaping public policy to stop abortion and prevent the legalization of marriage between same-sex couples.
The bishops also set a decidedly conservative direction this year in their choice of a vice president to replace Bishop Kicanas. They elected Archbishop Joseph Kurtz of Louisville, Ky., who is chairman of the bishops' committee on marriage and an outspoken opponent of same-sex unions. The runner-up was Archbishop Charles J. Chaput of Denver, who is a theological traditionalist and a political conservative. The tally was 147 votes for Archbishop Kurtz and 91 for Archbishop Chaput.
''This is a signal that the conference wants to be a leader in the culture wars,'' said the Rev. Thomas J. Reese, a senior fellow at the Woodstock Theological Center at Georgetown. ''The two vice-presidential finalists were the two most conservative on the ballot. That says something about where this conference is going.''
The final vote for president, after 10 candidates were narrowed to two, was 128 for Archbishop Dolan and 111 for Bishop Kicanas. Three years ago, when the same two men were finalists for vice president, Bishop Kicanas defeated Archbishop Dolan by two votes, according to the Catholic News Service.
Robert P. George, a professor of jurisprudence at Princeton and an adviser to some of the bishops on political and moral issues: ''You could imagine a different approach where the bishops would say, 'This guy is too combative. We need someone more conciliatory.' They didn't do that.''
Professor George noted that Archbishop Dolan was the host of the meetings that produced the ''Manhattan Declaration,'' a manifesto issued last year by prominent evangelical, Catholic and Orthodox Christian leaders to reignite and unify religious opposition to abortion, same-sex marriage and what the leaders considered as threats to religious freedom. Mr. George, who helped to draft the document, said Archbishop Dolan was one of the original signers.
It was impossible to tell whether the bishops were influenced by a last-minute lobbying campaign against Bishop Kicanas that was mounted by conservative Catholic bloggers, who accused him of being soft on abortion and homosexuality and of allowing a seminarian who was accused of sexual abuse to be ordained as a priest.
Several advocacy groups for victims of sexual abuse by priests had lobbied against Bishop Kicanas and Archbishop Dolan, saying both were involved in covering up abuse cases.
The Vatican has no direct role in the bishops' vote, but had expressed its confidence in Archbishop Dolan this year by appointing him to a panel that was investigating seminaries in Ireland, which has been devastated by the sexual abuse scandal.
Archbishop Dolan has led the church in New York since April 2009. Before then, he was archbishop of Milwaukee, where he served for seven years. In New York, he has a full plate of challenges, including a budget-cutting effort that will close dozens of churches and parishes.
He has been chairman for three years of Catholic Relief Services, the bishops' charity arm, and he traveled to Haiti several times after the earthquake in January to observe the church's relief efforts there. (He stepped down on Tuesday as leader of the relief agency.)
Speaking of Archbishop Dolan's strengths, Bishop Salvatore J. Cordileone of Oakland said, ''Not that many people can combine that intellectual depth and that jolly, outgoing personality.''
In an upbeat news conference, Archbishop Dolan said his differences with Bishop Kicanas are matters of style and not substance. He said the bishops rejected the idea that they were divided left and right, between the ''social justice'' and ''pro-life'' camps.
''The bishops see those as part of a package deal. It's not a cleavage between the two,'' he said.
He said that the battle over the health care overhaul had put the bishops in a ''delicate position.''
''We should have been doing cartwheels'' when the health care bill passed, he said, because the bishops had long supported expanding coverage. But he said the bishops could not endorse the legislation because they concluded there were ''unborn babies that were in danger.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Archbishop Timothy M. Dolan, right, was congratulated by Bishop Robert Vasa of Baker, Ore., after the vote was announced. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE RUARK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (91%); LIBERALISM (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); COHABITATION (84%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); SEX SCANDALS (70%); SEX OFFENSES (70%); SCANDALS (70%); GAYS & LESBIANS (68%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (62%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF CATHOLIC BISHOPS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (72%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



596 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: One Way to Trim the Deficit: Cultivate Growth

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
We look back on the late 1990s as a rare time when the federal government ran budget surpluses. We tend to forget that those surpluses came as a surprise to almost everybody.
As late as 1998, the Congressional Budget Office was predicting a deficit for 1999. In fact, Washington ran its biggest surplus in five decades.
What happened? Above all, economic growth. And that may be a big part of the answer to our current problems. 
Yes, the government became more fiscally conservative in the 1990s. Both President George H. W. Bush (who doesn't get enough credit) and President Bill Clinton, working with Congress, raised taxes to attack the 1980s deficits.
But those tax increases were the second most important reason for the surpluses that followed. The most important was the fact that the economy grew more rapidly than expected. The faster growth pushed up incomes and caused more tax revenue to flow into the Treasury.
Today's looming deficits are almost surely too large to be closed exclusively with growth. The baby boom generation is too big, and the rise in Medicare costs continues to be too steep. Yet growth could still make an enormous difference.
If the economy grew one half of a percentage point faster than forecast each year over the next two decades -- no easy feat, to be fair -- the country would have to do roughly 40 to 50 percent less deficit-cutting than it now appears, based on my reading of budget data from the economists Alan Auerbach and William Gale.
To get a concrete sense for what this would mean, you can play around with the The Times's online deficit puzzle. It asks you to find almost $1.4 trillion in annual spending cuts and tax increases by the year 2030. If growth were a half point faster than expected, the needed savings would instead drop to less than $700 billion. That would mean many fewer painful choices, be they tax increases or Medicare cuts.
So arguably the single best way to cut the deficit is to make sure that any deficit-cutting plan does not also cut economic growth. Ideally, it will lift growth.
There are two main ways to do so. First, we shouldn't plunge ourselves back into another economic slump by raising taxes and cutting spending too quickly. President Franklin Roosevelt made that mistake in 1937, and this time (one hopes) the country won't be able to rely on war mobilization spending to undo the error.
In the short term, we should actually spend more. ''Some politicians and economists present a false choice: reduce unemployment or stabilize the debt,'' argues a new bipartisan deficit plan that will be released Wednesday, the second such plan to come out in the last week. As Alice Rivlin, a Democrat who oversaw the writing of the plan with Pete Domenici, a Republican, put it: ''We can do both. We can put money in people's pockets in the short run and trim government spending in the long run.'' .
The plan calls for a one-year payroll tax holiday for employers and workers, costing $650 billion. But remember that's a one-time sum, while the needed deficit cuts will be hundreds of billions of dollars a year. Relative to those cuts, a payroll tax holiday -- or more spending on roads and bridges, as President Obama favors -- is a rounding error. And, of course, putting people back to work has its own benefits.
Even more important than the next couple of years is the second part of a pro-growth strategy: the long term. A good deficit plan doesn't simply make across-the-board cuts for years on end. It cuts funding for programs that do not spur economic growth and increases funding for those relatively few that do. Likewise, it raises tax rates that do not have a clear record of promoting growth and cuts those that do.
This task is not an easy one, because advocates and lobbyists inevitably claim that their idea, whatever it is, will help the larger economy. Just look at farm subsidies, a form of welfare for agribusiness that is supposedly crucial to the American economy. Or look at President George W. Bush's tax cuts, which, after being sold as an economic elixir, were followed by the slowest decade of growth since before World War II.
The two bipartisan deficit proposals that have come out over the last week each do a pretty good job, but not quite good enough, of focusing on economic growth. The most pro-growth part of both proposals -- the Domenici-Rivlin plan and the one from Erskine Bowles and Alan Simpson -- is their emphasis on tax reform.
Today's tax code is a thicket of deductions, credits and loopholes that force people to change their behavior and waste time trying to avoid too large of a tax bill. A tax code with fewer deductions and lower rates -- which, to be clear, is not the same thing as a tax cut -- would instead let businesses and households focus on being as productive as possible. The potential to make good money would drive more decisions, and the ability to qualify for a tax break would drive fewer.
Beyond tax reform, both deficit plans mention the importance of making investments that will lead to future growth. In particular, the Bowles-Simpson plan calls for a gradual 15-cents-a-gallon increase in the federal gasoline tax to pay for highways, mass transit and other projects. The plans also urge the government to prioritize education and science.
These are clearly among the best ways to promote growth. The United States created the world's most prosperous economy last century in large measure because it was the world's most educated country. It no longer is. Federal science dollars, meanwhile, led to the creation of the intercontinental railroad, the airline industry, the microchip, the personal computer, the Internet and numerous medical breakthroughs. Yet science funding is scheduled to decline as stimulus money runs out.
Unfortunately, the plans don't get more specific than saying that education and science are important. The only dedicated money for specific investments in either plan is the infrastructure fund financed by the gas tax. And, realistically, exhorting a future Congress to avoid wasteful spending and prioritize growth has about as much chance of success as exhorting it to find the political will to revamp Medicare.
The two bipartisan deficit groups deserve a lot of credit for starting to move the debate beyond vagaries. There is one more step they can take, though: making sure we remember that cutting the deficit is not only about making cuts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alice Rivlin and Pete Domenici led a bipartisan task force that offered ideas on how to reduce the budget deficit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); CONSERVATISM (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); BABY BOOMERS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (58%)

PERSON: PETE DOMENICI (58%); BILL CLINTON (57%); GEORGE H W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



597 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: New Push For Ireland To Consent To a Bailout

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER and JAMES KANTER; Stephen Castle and Landon Thomas contributed reporting.

 BODY:
As Ireland tried to fend off pressure to accept a bailout on Tuesday and other European nations raised objections to participating in a rescue plan, Europe again found itself confronting a crisis of confidence in the euro and, ultimately, in its ability to manage its economic problems.
A very public struggle over how to grapple with the latest market unease over the fiscal stability of several European countries illustrated the touchy questions of sovereignty and difficulty of reaching consensus that have kept Europe from reacting quickly. The latest episode also raises questions about tapping an existing bailout fund that Europe created earlier this year to prevent a debt crisis in Greece.
The differences rattled financial markets, with stocks falling about 2 percent or more in many European countries and more than 1.5 percent in the United States. Investor fears of an Irish crisis were heightened by reports that growth might be slowing in China.
As European finance ministers met in Brussels to pressure a reluctant Ireland to accept an $80 billion financial rescue plan, the president of the European Union, Herman Van Rompuy, said that the union was ''in a survival crisis.'' Mr. Van Rompuy appealed for European solidarity, saying, ''If we don't survive with the euro zone, we will not survive with the European Union.'' 
The meeting ended Tuesday night with an agreement to ''intensify'' talks on salvaging the Irish banking sector if requested, buying Dublin a bit more time but pushing Ireland toward a bailout.
Asked in Brussels if assistance for Ireland was now inevitable, Brian Lenihan, the Irish finance minister, said: ''It is not inevitable. I would not agree with that analysis.''
Still he added, referring to the intensified discussions, ''I am not going to put a timeline on this, but this is urgent.''
In Dublin, the Irish prime minister, Brian Cowen, hinted at a possible deal, telling Parliament that his government had not asked for help but was ''working with others to see in what way we can ameliorate market risks.''
The European Union's commissioner for economic and monetary affairs, Ollie Rehn, was more explicit, however, saying that the commission was discussing aid to Ireland with both the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund ''and of course the Irish.''
The pressure on Ireland grew as officials feared that market jitters could spread rapidly if nothing was done, putting the squeeze on other fiscally weakened countries, like Portugal and Spain, the fourth-largest economy in the euro zone.
But officials in the more fiscally sound nations, like Germany and Finland, raised concerns about turning over money to nations without a coherent plan.
The European Union cannot ''throw money from helicopters,'' Germany's economy minister, Rainer Bruderle, said during a visit to Rome. ''You have to create confidence in institutions, in the state, in public authorities.''
Buttressing the Finnish view that governments are not eager to hand over their cash, the Austrian finance minister, Josef Proll, said on Tuesday that his country had not yet submitted its contribution for December of funds to Greece for the bailout negotiated in the spring. ''If Greece doesn't fulfill certain things, we have the need for discussion,'' Mr. Proll said. Greece was ''not 100 percent on track,'' he said.
Dublin has for weeks resisted market and now political pressure to sign up for a bailout that would save its banks. Some European nations, like Portugal and Spain, want a deal to take bond market pressure off themselves. But other European leaders, like the Germans, are mindful of needing support from constituents who do not want to spend their earnings to bail out one country after another.
Most analysts expect the European Union to muddle through, adjusting its institutions as necessary. But the cost may mean new financial commitments by already strapped governments that need to cut their own budgets, and a further loss of credibility in global financial markets.
Mr. Cowen, the Irish prime minister, tried to put the emphasis on problems with Ireland's banks, not its government.
But Mr. Rehn, the European Union's economic commissioner, noted that ''these are connected,'' since the government guaranteed the bank liabilities two years ago.
Brian Lucey, a professor of finance at Trinity College Dublin and a former economist for the Irish central bank, concurred, saying that the distinction between the government and the banks was politically useful for Mr. Cowen, who can say that Europe is helping the banks, not the state, but it is meaningless. ''It's right to say that it's not a state bailout but a bank bailout, but they're the same,'' he said in an interview. ''We're not in a position to dictate. The banks are in deep, deep trouble, and we can't pull them out ourselves.''
Mr. Lucey said that Mr. Cowen was correct ''in playing coy and cautious until absolutely certain what the situation is and what's on the table, to get the strongest deal he can.'' But ''pride cometh before a fall,'' Mr. Lucey said. ''We're in serious danger of falling off a cliff.''
In his speech, Mr. Cowen blamed the markets as abnormal and overreacting, saying that Ireland should not be ''enslaved'' to them. But as Greece discovered, the markets will press on vulnerabilities, and having moved too slowly to bail out Greece, the European Union is eager to move more quickly this time. The first concern of European officials is to prevent a larger bailout that has to cover Portugal, which is manageable, or Spain, which would be much harder.
Irish pride is an important factor, given how long the country and its currency were tied to Britain and the pound. While both countries joined the European Union only in 1973, Ireland embraced the euro, which Britain has not, as an important sign of its independence and economic sovereignty.
As a result, the deal will be politically sensitive for Mr. Cowen, who has a very fragile majority and has been hoping to put off any bailout until next year.
Any rescue plan will come with conditions negotiated by the European Union and the International Monetary Fund, as was the case in Greece.
Germany in particular is pushing Ireland to raise its corporate tax rate of 12.5 percent, one of the lowest in the euro zone, to reduce its deficits. But Dublin is resisting this sort of intrusion in its affairs, Mr. Lucey said. A tax rate that Germany and other European nations see as unfair competition is viewed in Dublin as a critical element in its economic success, past and future.
A significant part of the pressure has also come quietly from the European Central Bank, which has been buying sovereign bonds and supporting the banks with billions in liquidity. The bank would prefer that the states take on the burden through the $81 billion financial stability mechanism and the nearly $600 billion stability fund they set up to try to prevent further crises like the one in Greece.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Brian Lenihan, the Irish finance minister, arrives for a meeting on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANCOIS LENOIR/REUTERS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); EURO (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%); HELICOPTERS (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (83%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%)

PERSON: BRIAN COWEN (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); IRELAND (95%); GERMANY (92%); BELGIUM (92%); GREECE (79%); SPAIN (79%); FINLAND (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



598 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: Pretty Good for Government Work

BYLINE: By WARREN E. BUFFETT. 
Warren E. Buffett is the chief executive of Berkshire Hathaway, a diversified holding company.

 BODY:
Omaha
DEAR Uncle Sam,
My mother told me to send thank-you notes promptly. I've been remiss.
Let me remind you why I'm writing. Just over two years ago, in September 2008, our country faced an economic meltdown. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the pillars that supported our mortgage system, had been forced into conservatorship. Several of our largest commercial banks were teetering. One of Wall Street's giant investment banks had gone bankrupt, and the remaining three were poised to follow. A.I.G., the world's most famous insurer, was at death's door.
Many of our largest industrial companies, dependent on commercial paper financing that had disappeared, were weeks away from exhausting their cash resources. Indeed, all of corporate America's dominoes were lined up, ready to topple at lightning speed. My own company, Berkshire Hathaway, might have been the last to fall, but that distinction provided little solace. 
Nor was it just business that was in peril: 300 million Americans were in the domino line as well. Just days before, the jobs, income, 401(k)'s and money-market funds of these citizens had seemed secure. Then, virtually overnight, everything began to turn into pumpkins and mice. There was no hiding place. A destructive economic force unlike any seen for generations had been unleashed.
Only one counterforce was available, and that was you, Uncle Sam. Yes, you are often clumsy, even inept. But when businesses and people worldwide race to get liquid, you are the only party with the resources to take the other side of the transaction. And when our citizens are losing trust by the hour in institutions they once revered, only you can restore calm.
When the crisis struck, I felt you would understand the role you had to play. But you've never been known for speed, and in a meltdown minutes matter. I worried whether the barrage of shattering surprises would disorient you. You would have to improvise solutions on the run, stretch legal boundaries and avoid slowdowns, like Congressional hearings and studies. You would also need to get turf-conscious departments to work together in mounting your counterattack. The challenge was huge, and many people thought you were not up to it.
Well, Uncle Sam, you delivered. People will second-guess your specific decisions; you can always count on that. But just as there is a fog of war, there is a fog of panic -- and, overall, your actions were remarkably effective.
I don't know precisely how you orchestrated these. But I did have a pretty good seat as events unfolded, and I would like to commend a few of your troops. In the darkest of days, Ben Bernanke, Hank Paulson, Tim Geithner and Sheila Bair grasped the gravity of the situation and acted with courage and dispatch. And though I never voted for George W. Bush, I give him great credit for leading, even as Congress postured and squabbled.
You have been criticized, Uncle Sam, for some of the earlier decisions that got us in this mess -- most prominently, for not battling the rot building up in the housing market. But then few of your critics saw matters clearly either. In truth, almost all of the country became possessed by the idea that home prices could never fall significantly.
That was a mass delusion, reinforced by rapidly rising prices that discredited the few skeptics who warned of trouble. Delusions, whether about tulips or Internet stocks, produce bubbles. And when bubbles pop, they can generate waves of trouble that hit shores far from their origin. This bubble was a doozy and its pop was felt around the world.
So, again, Uncle Sam, thanks to you and your aides. Often you are wasteful, and sometimes you are bullying. On occasion, you are downright maddening. But in this extraordinary emergency, you came through -- and the world would look far different now if you had not.
Your grateful nephew,
Warren

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ROBERT GROSSMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); DEBT FINANCING (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); US 401K PLANS (71%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (71%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (84%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (72%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (56%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (56%); BRK.A (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (72%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (56%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (56%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (57%); BEN BERNANKE (57%); SHEILA BAIR (56%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (90%) NEBRASKA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



599 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: Take the No. 7 To Secaucus? That's a Plan

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI and NICHOLAS CONFESSORE; Patrick McGeehan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Ever since Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey killed an expensive plan for a new commuter rail tunnel to Manhattan, the Bloomberg administration has been working on an alternative: run the No. 7 subway train under the Hudson River.
The plan envisions the No. 7 stretching from 34th Street on the Far West Side of Manhattan to Secaucus, N.J., where there is a connection to New Jersey Transit trains. It would extend the New York City subway outside the city for the first time, giving New Jersey commuters direct access to Times Square, Grand Central Terminal and Queens, and to almost every line in the system.
Like the project scuttled by Mr. Christie, this proposed tunnel would expand a regional transportation system already operating at capacity and would double the number of trains traveling between the two states during peak hours. It would do so at about half the cost, an estimated $5.3 billion, according to a closely guarded, four-page memorandum circulated by the city's Hudson Yards Development Corporation. 
Unlike the old project, the new plan does not require costly condemnation proceedings or extensive tunneling in Manhattan, because the city is already building a No. 7 station at 34th Street and 11th Avenue, roughly one block from the waterfront. In July, a massive 110-ton tunnel boring machine completed drilling for the city's $2.1 billion extension of the No. 7 line from Times Square to the new station.
Still, the proposal faces a number of daunting political, financial and logistical hurdles in an era of diminishing public resources. Mr. Christie, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Governor-elect Andrew M. Cuomo of New York would have to agree to make the tunnel a high priority and work in lock step to obtain the city, state and federal money needed to make it happen.
''Extending the 7 line to New Jersey could address many of the region's transportation capacity issues at a fraction of the original tunnel's cost, but the idea is still in its earliest stages,'' said Andrew Brent, a spokesman for the deputy mayor for economic development, Robert K. Steel. ''Like others, we're looking at -- and open to discussing -- any creative, fiscally responsible alternatives.''
Mr. Christie had not yet received a formal briefing on the idea, but his office said it was curious to hear more. ''We've been open to ideas for solving the trans-Hudson dilemma, ideas that are affordable and fair amongst the interested jurisdictions,'' said Michael Drewniak, a spokesman for Mr. Christie.
Last month, Mr. Christie, a Republican, put an end to the long-planned Hudson rail tunnel project after the estimated cost climbed to at least $11 billion, from an initial $8.7 billion. The project would have created two new tracks for New Jersey Transit from Secaucus to a new station deep under 34th Street, near Pennsylvania Station. The federal Transportation Department had pledged $3 billion, as had the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. New Jersey was responsible for the rest.
The federal transportation secretary, Ray LaHood, described Mr. Christie's decision as ''a devastating blow to thousands of workers, millions of commuters and the state's economic future.''
The two sides are now wrangling over Mr. LaHood's demand that New Jersey repay $271 million the federal government has spent on the project.
City officials had initially hoped that they could recapture the $3 billion pledged by the federal government, but that no longer seems possible, and the project will most likely have to compete with others around the country for the money. A spokesman for Mr. LaHood declined to comment on the proposal on Tuesday.
Another obstacle is the lengthy environmental review required of such projects, but officials are hoping to be able to use much of the work already done for the tunnel that was killed.
And it is unclear if New Jersey is willing to redirect to the No. 7 train project the money it had originally intended for the tunnel plan, which was known as Access to the Region's Core, or ARC. ''The issue again will come down to, what will Governor Christie say,'' said Jeffrey M. Zupan, senior fellow for transportation of the Regional Plan Association.
It is very likely that the Port Authority would have to be involved, since it has condemnation powers in both New York and New Jersey, unlike the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which oversees the city's subways.
Lawrence S. Schwartz, the top aide to Gov. David A. Paterson, said Tuesday that the Bloomberg administration had not yet formally presented the plan to Mr. Paterson, a Democrat, but that similar ideas had been discussed in the past. The governor, Mr. Schwartz said, was ''intrigued'' by the broad outlines of the administration's plan and looked forward to hearing more details.
''Getting cars off the road, reducing congestion and providing another access point for commuters between New York and New Jersey is going to benefit the region from a job-creation and development standpoint,'' Mr. Schwartz said.
A spokesman for Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, said that the proposal had recently been circulated to the governor-elect's transition team but that there had been no high-level discussions so far.
Aside from relieving congestion on the rails, the proposal also would benefit New York's real estate industry, because it would include an $800 million subway station at 10th Avenue and 42nd Street, an area with limited public transportation and a number of new residential towers. The station was part of the Bloomberg administration's plan for the No. 7 extension, but was cut to trim costs.
And the project would almost certainly serve as a boon for the planned $15 billion Hudson Yards residential and office development, to be built on platforms over the West Side railyards. That project has been stymied by the recession and an absence of demand for new residential and commercial space.
Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, expressed his support for the plan.
''This is a bold idea that must be given serious and immediate consideration,'' Mr. Schumer said. ''Building the ARC tunnel and extending the 7 line for a second stop are both critical to growing the New York economy for the coming decades, and I will fight to deliver any available federal funds to make that happen.''
At a reception in Manhattan on Monday night, Stephen M. Ross, chief executive of Related Companies and the developer for the Hudson Yards project, spoke to Mr. LaHood enthusiastically about the idea of running the No. 7 to New Jersey.
''I think it's a great idea and it could save a ton of money,'' Mr. Ross said Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Digging the tunnel for the extension of the No. 7 subway from 42nd Street and Seventh Avenue to 34th Street and 11th Avenue was finished in July. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCUS YAM/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The No. 7 train, which connects Queens and Manhattan, would be extended to New Jersey under a plan now being circulated. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A31) MAPS: The No. 7 line is already being extended to West 34th Street. (A31) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (91%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); TRAINS (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010



600 of 961 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: Jet Makers Waver on Upgrades

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW and JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
The latest high-stakes maneuvering by Boeing and Airbus does not involve their top-of-the-line models, the 787 Dreamliner and the A380 jumbo jet, but instead their aging smaller workhorses.
The two companies have long been defined by their willingness to take big risks. But perhaps because of all the problems and costs involved with the bigger planes, they have turned more cautious in responding to pressure from the airlines to develop more fuel-efficient substitutes for their smaller planes, the 737 and A320.
Aviation experts say breakthroughs in engine technology offer a rare chance to re-engineer the two companies' narrow 737s and A320s, which make up three-fourths of the fleets at the largest airlines. But while the new engines could save the airlines hundreds of millions of dollars a year, Airbus would have to invest $1.5 billion to $2 billion -- and Boeing possibly twice that -- to test and install them on the jets.
And that, both companies say, would force them to push back plans to design brand-new versions of the planes, which would eventually offer even greater cost savings. 
James F. Albaugh, the chief executive of Boeing Commercial Airplanes, a unit of Boeing, said in an interview that his company was likely to hold off on the engine change and instead create a new plane by 2020.
Airbus officials said their top executives were divided about what to do and planned to decide soon. Most analysts say they think Airbus will install the new engines and streamline the A320 by 2015 to take sales from Boeing while it is working out its new design.
But with oil prices back above $80 a barrel, airline executives say that they had hoped to hear cheerier news about faster solutions.
The 737s and A320s, which each typically seat 150 to 180 people, have formed the backbone of the air travel system for decades. More than 10,000 of them shuttle passengers between major airports within the United States and other continents.
But in terms of fuel economy, ''we haven't seen substantial improvements since the 1990s,'' said Michael G. Van de Ven, the chief operating officer of Southwest Airlines, one of Boeing's biggest customers.
And with ticket prices rising, he said, ''If there is one single thing that you can do to improve the economics in this industry, that is to introduce a new airplane.''
Boeing and Airbus say they are under too much financial strain from delays on the larger planes to jump right into designing a new jet, which could cost $7 billion to $10 billion.
Mr. Albaugh, the Boeing executive, said that given the choice of new engines in five years or a whole new plane in 10, most airlines would prefer to wait.
While the engines could help cut the operating costs for a new plane by 15 percent, he said, modifications and other costs in adding them to the 737s could reduce the total savings to less than 5 percent.
''A lot of people will say, 'Yeah, go re-engine the plane,' '' Mr. Albaugh said. ''But the second question is, Would you buy it?''
Airbus could save even more in a plane's total operating costs -- analysts estimate 7 to 10 percent -- by using the new engines and taking other steps to streamline the A320.
But top Airbus officials said last month that they were concerned about whether they had enough engineers to handle all the work in front of them.
The companies' ambivalence about installing new engines on the existing planes -- which is essentially a stopgap measure -- also illustrates how ''the great Airbus-Boeing game is changing,'' said Richard L. Aboulafia, vice president for analysis at the Teal Group, an aviation consulting firm in Fairfax, Va.
While dominating the market for large commercial planes over the last two decades, the two companies have loved nothing more than to leapfrog each other with bold technological advances.
But even as the demand for new planes bounces back from the recession, both are finding themselves hamstrung by the need to solve their production problems, Mr. Aboulafia said.
Boeing is nearly three years late in delivering its most important plane, the 787 Dreamliner, the first jetliner made substantially of lightweight carbon composites that are also supposed to slash fuel costs. A fire on a test flight last week reinforced expectations among analysts for further delays in its first deliveries next year.
Airbus said last week that it was pushing the delivery date for the A350 XWB, its answer to the Dreamliner, to late 2013 from mid-2013. Airbus might have to make more changes in its A380 jumbo jet after debris spewed from an engine during a Qantas Airways flight on Nov. 4.
Boeing and Airbus also have to worry about new competitors from Canada, China and Russia. They are taking advantage of the new engine technologies to design planes that could cut into the sales of 737s and A320s over the next few years.
The new engines are being developed by Pratt & Whitney, a unit of United Technologies, and CFM International, a joint venture of General Electric and Snecma of France. Pratt & Whitney's would have a huge fan and an advanced gear box to provide thrust with less fuel. CFM's rival engine would have improvements in its core to provide similar gains.
The first plane maker to offer Pratt & Whitney's engine will be Bombardier of Canada, which is designing jets that could carry 100 to 130 passengers. It estimates that by combining the new engines with lightweight composite wings, it could cut operating costs by 15 percent from today's levels.
Chinese and Russian companies are designing planes that can seat at least 160 people. The Chinese firm, the Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China, announced on Tuesday that it had received the first orders for its plane, which would use CFM's engine.
Bombardier hopes to have its first jet ready by 2013, while the Chinese and Russian ventures are aiming for 2016.
But given the problems that Boeing and Airbus have had in building new planes, analysts say, those delivery dates could easily slip. And some of the newcomers may find that it is harder than they think to build quality planes.
''I don't think that all the people who have aspirations will be successful,'' Mr. Albaugh, the Boeing executive, said. ''But I think that one or two of them possibly could.''
Boeing and Airbus recently stepped up production of the 737s and the A320s, both to generate cash and to meet as much of the demand as they can.
Southwest Airlines, Ryanair and Delta Air Lines have all spoken publicly in favor of re-engined aircraft. But unless a consensus emerges behind that option, Mr. Albaugh said, Boeing plans to continue with more incremental changes that could save an extra 2 percent in operating the 737.
Airbus officials said their marketing executives wanted to go ahead with the new engine if the questions about engineering resources could be resolved. Mr. Aboulafia, the Teal Group analyst, said Airbus ''could be losing an opportunity'' if it did not install the new engines on the A320.
He said the A320 was not as fuel-efficient now as the 737, and the new engines could tilt that equation in Airbus's favor. Airbus, he said, could then take a significant number of sales from Boeing before Boeing's new single-aisle plane entered the market by the end of the decade.
Mr. Aboulafia added that Airbus also faced a slightly bigger threat in the short run from the new firms entering the market, with both Bombardier and the Chinese company aiming mostly at Airbus customers for their initial orders.
''They have a carrot and a stick,'' Mr. Aboulafia said, referring to Airbus officials. ''And they're just sitting there, not grabbing the carrot and being hit by the stick.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Airbus plant in Saint-Nazaire, France, builds the A320. It is one of the workhorses of air travel, along with Boeing's 737. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRICE DIMIER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B1)
An engine, above, from CFM International at an air show in Britain in July. Top, a Boeing 737 at a plant in Renton, Wash. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SIMON DAWSON/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 KEVIN P. CASEY/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); AIRLINES (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); AIRPORTS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); TICKET SALES (63%); PRICE INCREASES (63%)

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (92%); BOEING CO (92%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (52%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%); LUV (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); BRETAGNE, FRANCE (59%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (59%)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010

 
