

601 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Bush, in Berlin, Calms Some European Fears With Talk of Partnership and Aid 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: BERLIN, May 23 

 BODY:
President Bush delivered a well-prepared speech here today that pleased his supporters and surprised some of his critics, touching on sensitive topics without belaboring them and emphasizing the shared values and risks of the trans-Atlantic alliance.
 His host, the Social Democratic chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, , called the address "truly important," noting that Mr. Bush's emphasis on cooperation with allies and international development aid had brushed aside "carefully tended prejudices." 
 Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer, who is from the Green Party, also praised Mr. Bush for understanding that the answer to terrorism was not only military, but included free trade and more foreign aid as an obligation of wealthy nations to the poor. 
But Mr. Fischer was conditional in his plaudits, saying the speech would be "historic" only if "these ideas are really translated into political action."
Robert Kagan, an analyst with the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace noted that the problems of "continental drift" between Washington and Europe had not begun with President Bush, "and Bush can't solve them, even with the best of speeches."
But, Mr. Kagan added, "it was a moving and important speech, if there's anyone left in Europe to be moved."
Mr. Bush discussed the American campaign against terrorism but was careful not to mention Iraq. Many Germans are concerned that the United States could drag them and NATO into a war against Iraq without sufficient consultation or justification.
As Jeffrey Gedmin, director of the Aspen Institute in Berlin, put it, "Bush went as far as he could to be clear and principled about how Sept. 11 has transformed the conversation in America about national security, but without going too far to scare them, because they are scared. 
"Legislators were relieved he didn't mention Iraq and didn't ask too much of them too soon. But every key figure in the government knows that Iraq is coming. But they want it after the elections." Those occur on Sept. 22.
The left was grudging but respectful, despite a showy walkout by four deputies of the reformed East German Communist Party. "The president clearly disarmed verbally," said the party's deputy chairwoman, Petra Pau, meaning that he had toned down his language. "But a difference in political understanding remains."
Winfried Herrmann, a Greens legislator and a pacifist, called it "an astoundingly modest speech" and added, with faint praise: "I expected that he would say something that would force me to leave the hall. That wasn't the case."
Part of the trans-Atlantic "drift" is about self-confidence and the willingness to use power to achieve goals, Mr. Kagan said.
The speech was "a well-written appeal to a common destiny," Mr. Kagan added. "But it isn't a substitute for the huge disparities in power and the equally large difference in attitudes to the use of power. 
"Europeans don't really believe in using power to solve international problems anymore, because their experience in the last decades is that you solve problems by discarding power. That's a good thing, but it's only possible if someone else is there guarding the gate."
Conservatives liked the speech and also noted Mr. Bush's emphasis on aid as an antidote to terrorism. The leader of the Christian Democrats, Angela Merkel, called the speech impressive, saying Mr. Bush "made it clear that we cannot just focus the antiterror effort on military solutions."
Edmund Stoiber, the conservatives' candidate for chancellor, who is currently leading Mr. Schroder in the polls, praised Mr. Bush for concentrating on what unites Europe and America. "Bush rejected unilateralism in the fight against terror," Mr. Stoiber said. "He made it clear that the problem could only be solved together. And with his comparisons with the fight against the Nazis and communism, Bush proved how serious he was."
Margarita Mathiopoulos, director of the Potsdam Center for Trans-Atlantic Security and Military Affairs, said Mr. Bush's emphasis on common historical and cultural vaules was "not anymore a commonplace, and that he said it here in Berlin has a real value -- the wording was sensitive, and his presentation was disarming."
But she echoed concern from conservatives on both sides of the Atlantic that Mr. Bush's warm relationship with the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, is too unskeptical. While Mr. Bush spoke of new relations with Russia as a European-American initiative, in part through NATO, "the warmth he gave to Russia was for me a bit too far," Ms. Mathiopoulos said. 
"We Europeans always get disturbed when Americans engage in this kind of love affair with the Russians," she added. "It's important the cold war is over and we all agree, but there is still a 'but,' and it will affect NATO strategy."
Josef Joffe, chief editor of the weekly Die Zeit, also praised Mr. Bush for highlighting the cultural and moral values that are shared. "He spoke of Luther, St. Francis, the Magna Carta, that is what the West is all about," Mr. Joffe said. "That is the vast weight under our relationship that keeps righting it when it tips."
While not an historic speech, Mr. Joffe said, "it was the right speech at the right moment in the right tone at the right place."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush's speech yesterday to the German Parliament was well received by supporters and critics alike. The German chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, said the address brushed aside "carefully tended prejudices." (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); IRAQ WAR (75%); TERRORISM (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); COUNTERTERRORISM (70%); TRENDS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GERMANY-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%) CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); GERHARD SCHRODER (88%) ERLANGER, STEVEN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR); KAGAN, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%) GERMANY (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%) GERMANY; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2002 



602 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1478 words

HEADLINE: IN REICHSTAG, BUSH CONDEMNS TERROR AS NEW DESPOTISM 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: BERLIN, May 23 

 BODY:
President Bush stood today in the well of Germany's reconstructed Reichstag and told Parliament that the terrorist groups the United States and its allies are hunting down constitute a "new totalitarian threat," and in a clear reference to Hitler, compared the current struggle to a past generation's battle against those who "killed in the name of racial purity."
 Mr. Bush's speech under the spectacular glass dome of the Reichstag, the symbol of a unified Germany, sought to reassure clearly skeptical Germans about his intentions as he pursues his next steps against terrorism, particularly in Iraq, and presses American interests in environmental protection and aid to developing nations. Many Europeans are also concerned about American policy in the Middle East and about American plans for NATO. 
 During a news conference with Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, he promised to consult with Germany and other allies before taking action against Iraq and its suspected weapons of mass destruction, but he made it clear that he would not back off, saying, "We've got to deal with it." 
Mr. Bush's remarks, the first by an American president in the Reichstag, were received politely. But his appearance was punctuated at one point by a demonstration by four members of a former East German Communist party who unveiled a banner that said "Stop Your Wars." Mr. Bush missed a few beats of his speech, then kept speaking as a few members of Parliament walked out in protest.
Mr. Bush used much of the speech to celebrate Germany's achievements, and Europe's, in the 13 years since the Berlin Wall fell just feet from where he was speaking. "Ours is the first generation in a hundred years that does not expect and does not fear the next European war," he said to applause that even some of his harshest critics seemed to join.
Invoking the resolute declarations of Presidents Kennedy and Reagan during their visits to a divided Berlin, Mr. Bush made his case that the United States, an expanded NATO, and now Russia face a new mission: to defeat regimes that may place nuclear, chemical or biological weapons within reach of terrorists.
"If these regimes and their terrorist allies were to perfect these capabilities, no inner voice of reason, no hint of conscience would prevent their use," he said, charging that terrorists hate "Jews and Christians and all Muslims who disagree with them." 
Turning to members of the Green Party and others in the chamber who have protested America's approach to terrorism as unilateral, extreme and a violation of international law, he said, "Wishful thinking might bring comfort, but not security."
He appeared, at moments, to be invoking the lessons of the 1930's when efforts to appease Hitler failed, and he made it clear he did not plan to repeat the mistake. "Call this a strategic challenge; call it, as I do, the axis of evil; call it by any name you choose, but let us speak the truth." He added, "We must confront this conspiracy against our liberty and against our lives."
In the midst of his 20-hour visit here, Mr. Bush was clearly concerned about dampening expanding questions about the intelligence failures before the Sept. 11 attacks, including questions about what he knew. In his news conference, he insisted that he welcomes a Congressional investigation, but only "in the Intelligence Committee," which, he said, understands "the obligations of upholding our secrets and our sources and methods of collecting intelligence."
He deflected a question about whether he would release the Central Intelligence Agency analysis given to him on Aug. 6 that raised the possibility that Al Qaeda was trying to hijack American aircraft. But a senior administration official said in Washington that Mr. Bush would not set a precedent by turning over to Congress any copies of his classified Presidential Daily Briefing.
Mr. Bush clearly knew he faced a skeptical audience, both in the chamber and across Europe. He seemed to adjust his tone to one of gentle persuasion rather than argument. He repeatedly thanked Germany for its contributions to the fight against the Taliban and Al Qaeda, an action that the Parliament authorized after considerable debate over the first deployment of German troops for battle since World War II.
Carrying the comparisons to World War II and the cold war to the next step, the president said Sept. 11 marked a change of eras as dramatic as Pearl Harbor or the first days of the Berlin blockade, when the United States had to mount an airlift to keep the Western-controlled parts of the city fed.
He carefully stepped around the most contentious subjects of disagreement, including his rejection of the Kyoto Protocol on global warming, his refusal to sign the treaty creating the International Criminal Court, and his decision to aid American steelmakers by imposing large tariffs on foreign-made steel. He started off by thanking the members of Parliament, as they sat in purple seats before jet-black desks, for coming into a special session to hear him. "I can just imagine how my Congress would react if I called them back to hear a speech of mine when they were on vacation," he said to laughter.
As he spoke, Mr. Bush's wife, Laura, who has been touring Europe in recent days, and members of his foreign policy team sat in the sleek glass-and-metal galleries that give the new home of Parliament an airy look inside the walls of the 108-year-old Reichstag building. Also along for the trip, which will include Russia, France and Italy, were Karen Hughes, the influential counselor who is leaving the White House this summer, and, notably, Karl Rove, his longtime policy adviser, whose presence seemed to underscore the expansion of his domestic political portfolio to global matters. 
Quickly, Mr. Bush and his team received a lesson in the politics of modern Europe. No sooner had they entered the chamber than Mr. Bush was both welcomed and directly challenged by the Parliament's president, Wolfgang Thierse, a member of Mr. Schroder's Social Democrats. 
Mr. Thierse complimented the American president for taking the time to assemble a coalition to fight terrorism, declaring, "Your reaction to Sept. 11 proved that all those were wrong who thought a new American unilateralism was emerging." 
But then Mr. Thierse warned, in comments clearly aimed at the visiting president, that the need for such coalitions extends to other arenas. "The pursuit of unilateral interests proves short-sighted more and more frequently," he said, urging Mr. Bush to "continue together on the road mapped out by the Kyoto protocol" and to ratify the court treaty. Mr. Bush made it clear earlier in the day that he has no intention of reconsidering his opposition to the Kyoto treaty.
In his whirlwind tour here, Mr. Bush did no sightseeing. His motorcade speeded through a sealed-off downtown, past both the reminders of the Nazi era and the cranes that are creating a new Berlin in the spaces left after the wall tumbled. He acknowledged at one point this morning his frustration at not seeing more, and not speaking to ordinary Germans -- the closest he came was an invitation-only crowd at a restaurant where he had dessert with Mr. Schroder on Wednesday night. But he said "that's just life in the bubble" of security that surrounds a president. He never mentioned another possible reason, the street protests that greeted his arrival. 
At the same time, he seemed attuned to the city's efforts to come to terms with its past and the historical sensitivities that still pervade the body politic here.
"The history of our time is written in the life of Berlin," he said in his speech. "In this building, the fires of hatred were set that swept across the world," he added, in an allusion to the burning of the Reichstag on Feb. 27, 1933, an act of arson that historians now view as the symbol of the death of parliamentary democracy in Germany as Hitler's National Socialists rose to power.
At another point during the news conference, Mr. Bush used a line about Saddam Hussein that he frequently employs at home, calling him "a dictator who gassed his own people." But it was striking in the context of Berlin: Mr. Bush spoke just a mile from the gathering point where, 60 years ago, Berlin's Jews were collected for transport to the concentration camps where many of them were gassed as well.
Chancellor Schroder did not react to the comment. But at another point, the German leader, who faces a tough election fight this fall, continued to distance himself from Mr. Bush's clear willingness to use military action to unseat Mr. Hussein. With Mr. Bush standing next to him, Mr. Schroder said the world had to "exercise a lot of political pressure" to get international arms inspectors into Iraq. He urged that "we not speculate" about further action in Iraq until further consultations with the Bush administration.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush inspected a Russian honor guard upon his arrival in Moscow last night. He will meet with President Vladimir V. Putin. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A1); Four members of the Party of Democratic Socialism, the reconstructed Communist Party of the former East Germany, unfurled a sign to protest President Bush's speech yesterday to the German Parliament in Berlin. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (87%); ELECTIONS (79%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (66%); JEWS & JUDAISM (63%); RELIGION (63%); PRESS CONFERENCES (54%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); NAZI POLICIES TOWARD JEWS AND MINORITIES; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: PARTY OF DEMOCRATIC SOCIALISM (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); GERHARD SCHRODER (73%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (59%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%) SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (95%); IRAQ (93%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); GERMANY; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2002 



603 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Pay the Victims, Protect the Church 

BYLINE:  By Dirk Olin; Dirk Olin is national editor of The American Lawyer.

 BODY:
The child sex abuse scandal that has roiled the Catholic Church for the past few months has entered a crucial stage. Lawsuits against the church have been filed in several cities, and settlement talks have collapsed in the highly publicized suits against the archdiocese of Boston over child abuse charges against John Geoghan.
 Meanwhile, Catholic dioceses around the country are facing fund-raising shortfalls: in Chicago Cardinal Francis E. George spoke of the expected cost of child abuse lawsuits this week when he proposed selling the church-owned mansion he lives in. As costs multiply, a need may soon arise for a broad framework to deal with the liability crisis in the Catholic Church. 
 Some plaintiffs' lawyers estimate that the church has already paid out as much as $1 billion in settlements during the past two decades, but even the more conservative estimate of $350 million by the United States Conference of Bishops is staggering enough.
The Catholic Church is crucial as a social services agency. Its charitable works reach into many of our poorest neighborhoods -- staffing hospitals for the indigent, schools for those whose public institutions have failed them, and soup kitchens for the homeless and destitute. Although some of those institutions are at least partially walled off from the church as legal entities, most are still dependent upon the parish for subsidies and labor.
What many of the priests did is horrific, and the tolerance or concealment of that behavior by some church leaders was callous to the point of possible criminality. But exacting punishment for those acts ought not lead to the bankruptcy of institutions on which so many communities still depend.
The financial threat looming from the lawsuits already filed and coming is enormous. Many archdiocesan insurance policies are insufficient or already tapped out. Although most of America's 194 dioceses remain solvent -- holding, as they do, significant hard assets -- they generally lack liquidity. As most parish leaders will tell you, what's collected on Sunday is usually spent on Monday. Many dioceses are also hobbled by a history of amateurish financial management. Many operate with chronic budget deficits.
One way to stave off financial collapse may be to create a victims' restitution fund -- like the one that was created for the families of victims of the Sept. 11 attacks -- that distributes available funds outside the tort system.
Since each diocese is legally autonomous, this approach might require 194 such funds. Even so, this solution -- if coupled with meaningful reforms within the church to end abuse and to report it -- could gain support among the laity and even among the victims.
Plaintiffs would be able to opt out of the fund and pursue individual lawsuits if they chose. And criminal prosecutions could, of course, still proceed. Plaintiffs' counsel and church officials would have to develop rules for administration of the pool of money, raised from insurance and other sources, that would be made available to claimants who agreed to forgo litigation. Prospective donors might well give to such a fund, knowing that it would benefit victims and protect charitable works. The victims would be able to get monetary damages without having to go through the trauma of court battles, and they would be shielded from possible church bankruptcies.
Defining eligibility would, of course, require sophisticated fact-finding. But criteria could be established that would give a reasonable administrator confidence that fraudulent claims were being eliminated. Screenings could be made highly accurate once the church opens it files so that perpetrators' records and patterns of behavior could be compared against complaints.
Though the challenge is substantial, a nonlitigation-based approach to church liability could work. Absent some such strategy, the church and the country face the prospect of mass lawsuits -- think tobacco or asbestos -- stretching from here to the distant future. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); LITIGATION (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CHILD ABUSE (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); SCANDALS (90%); CHILD WELFARE (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); SEX SCANDALS (78%); TORTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); INSURANCE POLICIES (69%); HOMELESSNESS (66%); TERRORISM (60%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) PRIESTS; SEX CRIMES; CHILD ABUSE AND NEGLECT; SUITS AND LITIGATION; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 

PERSON: OLIN, DIRK 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2002 



604 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1389 words

HEADLINE: Cash Aside, Is That Prize Meaningful? 

BYLINE:  By WARREN ST. JOHN 

 BODY:
Danny Hillis was sitting at his desk in Los Angeles when he got a telephone call with big news. Mr. Hillis, a computer designer and the chairman of the technology company Applied Minds, had been nominated for something called the Dan David prize. His qualification: nothing less than contributing "to the improvement of the world."
 There was just one problem with the award. "I'd never heard of it," Mr. Hillis said. 
 Suspecting a hoax, Mr. Hillis logged on to the Internet to do a little research. What he found startled him. Not only did a Dan David prize exist, but it was also endowed with $100 million from a Romanian-born photo booth entrepreneur and is to be administered by Tel Aviv University with a grandiose, dignitary-jammed award ceremony tomorrow. The award committee included Henry A. Kissinger and Klaus Schwab, the founder of the World Economic Forum. 
And then there was the prize money: $1 million.
"I was like, wow," Mr. Hillis said.
The Dan David prize is only one among a surprising number of little-known big-money awards established in the last few years by wealthy individuals and foundations vying to be the next Nobel or Pulitzer. The number of international awards over $100,000 has shot up to 100 from about 25 in 1990, says Larry Tise, the president of the International Congress of Distinguished Awards. 
Yet as big-money honors multiply, people in philanthropy have begun to question whether the large awards are an efficient use of resources or simply elaborate marketing gimmicks that siphon funds and energy from serious philanthropic work.
"If you're talking about giving someone a million-dollar pat on the back, I don't find that an effective way of allocating charitable dollars," said Daniel Borochoff, the president of the American Institute of Philanthropy, a group that advises philanthropists. "There's a lot of waste there."
But in doing the crude mathematics of the publicity game, many prize administrators have realized what state lotteries learned a long time ago: the bigger the jackpot, the more coverage it gets. 
"There's a wow factor to an award that has a big amount of money attached to it," said Charles Overby, the chairman of the Freedom Forum, which two years ago named Elian Gonzalez the recipient of its $1 million "Free Spirit Award." Since paying the money to Elian, a Cuban, was illegal, it gave the funds to a charity that supported child refugees -- but not before The Associated Press noted the audaciousness of the selection.
Like the Nobels, some of the new prizes are carefully thought out to reward research in specific disciplines. Last year, Morris Silverman, a New York City businessman who made a fortune in mini-storage, financed the $1 million Albany Medical Center prize to spur medical research. The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation's annual million-dollar prize honors work on global health. The Crown Prince of Dubai endowed the $1 million Zayed Environmental Prize. Then there's the $250,000 William E. Simon Awards for philanthropy, and the $150,000 Peter Gruber Awards for cosmology, genetics and justice.
Other awards are bafflingly vague. The Freedom Forum's Free Spirit Award honors individuals who have "demonstrated an abundance of free spirit." (One of this year's winners was Chuck Yaeger, the legendary test pilot). The Cato Institute's $500,000 Milton Friedman Award, named for the Nobel laureate in economics, is given for nothing more specific than "advancing liberty."
There's no sign of a letup. Mr. Gruber, a financier who started his prizes two years ago to honor, as he put it, "certain disciplines that had not been recognized," is considering new prizes in areas like women's rights.
The prize-giving mania is relatively new. "In the 19th century, it was much more common for recipients to mock prizes and decline them," said James English, an English professor at the University of Pennsylvania, who is writing a book about awards. Prizes were once seen, he said, "as a kind of collective embarrassment."
Now, no matter whether people complain that there are too many prizes, Mr. English said: "Well, there are going to be more. Any field that does not yet have a Nobel attached to it, someone is trying to establish one."
The criticisms of the new awards in the philanthropic world are as varied as the awards themselves. Since prize money is taxed as ordinary income, critics point out, sometimes as much as 40 percent of the award goes directly to government coffers. Nominees are often people, like Mr. Hillis, who don't need the money. And while some prizes, like the MacArthur "genius" grants, often reward work by people in the middle of their careers, many others are given to people whose work is mostly behind them.
"I call them foot-in-the-grave awards," said Pablo Eisenberg, a senior fellow at Georgetown University's Public Policy Institute. "I would rather see awards given at a more crucial time in a person's career." 
Even some prizewinners admit to feeling uncomfortable about their awards. "A prize is an inherently unfair thing," said James Peebles, the Albert Einstein Professor of Science Emeritus at Princeton University and the winner in 2000 of the Peter Gruber Award for cosmology. "I don't know that anyone works in isolation." 
Awards are proliferating largely because they do so much for so many. Recipients like the recognition, and of course, the money. Donors often like the reflected glory, which essentially rebrands a family name. Alfred Nobel is associated less with the source of his fortune -- dynamite -- than with scientific and literary accomplishment, and peace.
"The arrangement bestows a certain prestige on the recipient but reflects back on the name of the donor," Mr. English said. 
To be taken seriously, new prizes need the cooperation of distinguished judges -- or even better, an affiliation with an established academic institution. 
Institutions are quick to grasp the public relations benefits of playing host to awards ceremonies. When Dan David approached Tel Aviv University about administering his prize, the school accepted quickly. "It didn't take me long to say yes," said Itamar Rabinovich, the president of the school. "I saw the huge potential. The million dollars makes a particular statement."
Meanwhile, to keep up with their well-financed competition, established awards are increasing their payments. The Charles Stark Draper Prize in engineering, established in 1988 and administered by the National Academy of Engineering, increased its award to $500,000 in 1999, from $300,000. And the Tyler Environmental Prize, established in 1973 and administered by the University of Southern California, recently doubled its award to $200,000. The Templeton Foundation calculates the payment for its religion prize by adding a few thousand dollars to the payout of the Nobels, which varies annually depending on fluctuations in the value of the Nobel endowment.
Once an organization starts giving out awards, it can only hope the public takes an interest. "You'd like it to be the front page of the national news," said David Boaz, the executive vice president of the Cato Institute. "There's an element of suspense, not that the whole world is waiting, but a few people are waiting and hopefully, over time, more people will be waiting."
At least a few prizes have taken steps to combat the criticism that they are inefficient in the use of funds. The Dan David Prize requires winners to give 10 percent of their prize money, or $100,000, to finance the work of younger scholars. And some prizewinners give their prize money to foundations to support research in their fields. The generosity has a curious effect; some of these newly endowed foundations quickly set up new prizes.
It could be that the glut of large-money prizes is simply a reflection of a broader wave of award-giving in the American culture. Jim Weir of the Awards and Recognition Association in Chicago says the United States is on a kind of prize-giving binge. Corporate awards are growing at 20 percent a year. Even Mr. Weir's organization gives an annual award. For the best award.
A week after that call from the Dan David Prize, Mr. Hillis, 45, got another call to tell him he had won. Now, he is in Tel Aviv to pick up his award, and his check.
"I give a speech and wear a tuxedo," he said. "Or something like that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: With prize money rising sharply, it may seem to be falling from the skies, as it did in "Golden Fleecing" (1940). (Photofest) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENDOWMENTS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (89%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); CHARITIES (89%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); LOTTERIES (74%); CHARITABLE GIVING (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); AFFLUENT MARKET (66%) PHILANTHROPY; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%)

PERSON: ST JOHN, WARREN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); ALBANY, NY, USA (64%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2002 



605 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: Fortunate Lives and Late-Blooming Fears 

BYLINE:  By Marshall I. Goldman; Marshall Goldman, a 1952 graduate of the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, went on to become a professor of economics at Wellesley College.

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

 BODY:
May is the season not only for commencements but also for reunions. And just as commencements are a time to look forward, reunions are a time to look back. My undergraduate classmates and I did that at our 50th reunion at the University of Pennsylvania a few days ago.
 What a momentous half-century this has been. In 1952, cold war tension was in the air, and many of us faced the draft. There were not many who foresaw that today the Soviet Union would be no more, China would be toying with free markets and South Korea -- then a war zone -- would be an advanced industrial nation. 
 I wanted to know how my classmates had changed as so much went on around them, so I organized a survey. Nearly 500 of my classmates completed it. In a world that often surprises us, we've done a pretty good job of adapting.
In 1952, 54 percent of these 500 classmates smoked; today only 5 percent do. Almost none of us worried about our diets then; today almost all do, and for good reason. As a group we now are more than three tons heavier than we were 50 years ago; one classmate acknowledges a gain of more than 100 pounds.
Of course we have acquired children. Those who answered the questionnaire reported that collectively they have been parents to 1,300 children who in turn have spawned 1,900 grandchildren. One alumnus is far ahead: he is responsible for 54 of our 87 great-grandchildren.
We seem to have been spared much of the upheaval that has affected more recent graduating classes. Only 7 percent of us have been divorced (although one member boasted that he has had five marriages and is now looking for his sixth partner -- preferably someone much younger than he). Seventy-five percent of us married only once, and a surprisingly large number volunteered that they placed their marriages among their proudest achievements.
We also distinguished ourselves from more recent graduates by the fact that 64 percent served in the military, primarily because of the draft and the Korean War. (The proportion might have been much lower if Penn had been fully coeducational then, as it is today; for the most part, women in our class were admitted only to the school of nursing and the relatively small college for women.)
Only 20 of us, or 4 percent, acknowledged ever having used drugs, including marijuana. However, 77 percent drank alcoholic beverages then, and the same percentage do today. Those who drink less today now slightly exceed those who drink more.
Financially we did very well. Only 2 percent reported finances were a matter of concern. In contrast, 12 percent reported they had a net worth of $5 million or more and another 38 percent had accumulated between $1 million and $5 million. An unusually large number started their own businesses.
Yet despite our wealth, only 9 percent of us contribute $25,000 or more each year to charity.
While the emphasis was on the past, the survey also asked about the future. Not surprisingly, now that we are in our 70's, almost a third of the classmates reported that their biggest concern for the future was their health (a few expressed their appreciation for Viagra).
But health was not the only worry. Another third of the class said terrorism had become their biggest concern, as well as their children's. The class of 1952 was not part of the "greatest generation" -- we were too young to have seen the battlefields of World War II. We were spared the campus upheaval brought on by the war in Vietnam. But it would be fair to say we were the first cold war generation, having come into adulthood with nuclear war and all its implications fully part of our lives. Now for many of us, terrorism seems as threatening, if not more threatening, than the cold war was 50 years ago. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (87%); MARRIAGE (87%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); KOREAN WAR (76%); COLD WAR (76%); WOMEN (75%); TRENDS (74%); NURSES & NURSING (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (70%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (58%)

PERSON: GOLDMAN, MARSHALL I 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (88%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2002 



606 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1879 words

HEADLINE: A Learning Curve for Whittle Venture 

BYLINE:  By DIANA B. HENRIQUES 

 BODY:
H. Christopher Whittle, the 54-year-old founder and chief executive of Edison Schools, sat in his stylishly simple Midtown Manhattan office and pondered what his critics have said about him. That he is extravagant. That he exaggerates reality. That he promises more than he can deliver.
 Maybe in the past, allowed Mr. Whittle, a small, casually elegant man with a lopsided grin. But not at Edison, his favorite brainchild and the nation's largest commercial manager of public schools. Here, he said, executives fly coach or pay the difference themselves. And his own salary is just $1 a year, plus stock options. 
 But others see deja vu in Mr. Whittle's stewardship of Edison, whose plan to take over 20 failing schools in Philadelphia this summer has made it a lightning rod in the stormy national debate over school reform. 
Just as he promised more growth than he delivered a decade ago at Channel One, the controversial in-school television news network he once owned, Mr. Whittle last fall led Wall Street to expect Edison to get far more new schools to manage in the coming year than it did.
And just as there were complaints in 1994 about incorrect accounting and unpaid taxes at his earlier media empire, Whittle Communications, Mr. Whittle said last week that Edison had settled a regulatory complaint about its reporting of revenue.
Also, with Edison's overhead consuming a very high 17.3 percent of revenues last year, several investment bankers who have studied Edison's books see echoes of the spending habits that led Mr. Whittle to build a lavish headquarters in Knoxville, just as Whittle Communications was faltering. And once again, those bankers said, Mr. Whittle has surrounded himself with smart, talented people who do not know enough about business and finance to keep Edison out of trouble.
This time, however, more than just Mr. Whittle's personal reputation is at stake, said Thomas Toch, a writer at the National Center on Education and the Economy in Washington who is working on a book about education reform.
Mr. Whittle has become the standard-bearer for people who believe that private-sector management can transform America's public schools, Mr. Toch said, and Edison's ambitious effort in Philadelphia is being widely watched on all sides of the school reform debate. While Mr. Toch said he believed that a marketplace of educational options was inevitable, he said he feared that an Edison failure in Philadelphia "would put the movement back two decades."
Mr. Whittle, who seemed upbeat in a recent interview even after just completing an overnight flight from Los Angeles, explained that Edison, with its public stockholders, is a different world from the private companies he ran in the past -- a world requiring new skills that he is still trying to master.
At his private companies, he said, he would deliberately set goals that were out of reach to inspire extra effort. "But public markets are wired differently," Mr. Whittle said, natty in his signature bow tie and navy sweater vest. "There, the idea is 'under-promise, over-deliver.' " He added, "I had difficulty in that segue."
That difficulty, he acknowledged, is partly to blame for the fact that Edison's stock has plummeted -- it closed last night at $1.26, down 94 percent this year -- just as it needs to raise up to $50 million to finance its expansion this summer in Philadelphia and elsewhere.
But Mr. Whittle seemed undaunted, pointing out that Edison has already defied early skeptics by becoming one of the 50 largest school systems in the country, with about 75,000 students in 22 states. "How many times has this company been declared dead?" he asked rhetorically, a favorite conversational tic. "Multiple times."
Almost as many times as Mr. Whittle himself has been prematurely declared defeated.
"I have a pretty good track record on raising capital," he said, in a voice that still has the soft twang of his native Tennessee. "And my critics would have difficulty establishing that I am not a good crisis manager. I've been through my share."
His business career began in 1968, when he was a student at the University of Tennessee. With a few classmates, including Philip Moffitt, he hatched "Knoxville in a Nutshell," an ad-filled campus guide for incoming freshmen. A decade later, after a constant high-wire scramble for capital, it had grown into the 13-30 Corporation, which offered a host of ingenious media options to advertisers trying to reach under-30 consumers.
The young company hit the national scene with a noisy splash in 1979, when Mr. Whittle and Mr. Moffitt bought Esquire Magazine, a financial invalid which had long been a showcase for America's best editors and writers.
"We were convinced that we could have this thing upright within six months," Mr. Whittle recalled. "But within 90 to 120 days, all of our capital was gone. We had no idea how fast this boat was going down."
But with skeptics ready to gloat, Mr. Whittle helped persuade Esquire's former owner, Associated Newspapers in London, to chip in fresh capital. Mr. Moffitt deftly handled a lively stable of talented young writers, and Esquire was eventually put back on its feet.
In 1986, Mr. Whittle and Mr. Moffitt parted company, dividing their media empire. Mr. Moffitt took Esquire, and in 1987 sold it to the Hearst Corporation. Mr. Whittle took the rest of 13-30, including its popular student publications, and renamed it Whittle Communications.
On his own, Mr. Whittle displayed both his widely acknowledged gifts (salesmanship and fresh ideas) and his self-confessed shortcomings (an appetite for more growth than he can handle, a habit of reaching well beyond his grasp).
In 1989, he unveiled Channel One, and landed in a blistering controversy that prompted California and New York effectively to ban the network from their schools. But Mr. Whittle was able to keep Channel One alive in the face of all opposition, he said.
In 1991, Mr. Whittle introduced what he still calls "my best and most important idea" -- the Edison Project, first envisioned as a chain of private schools across the country. A year later, he recruited Benno C. Schmidt Jr., the president of Yale University, to run Edison, and invested millions in the concept.
Whittle Communications, meanwhile, was falling apart. Mr. Whittle, who was living a princely life as chief executive, had recruited talented but expensive people with little business experience, and his company was losing money at a pace that his investors found alarming.
The backers rebelled in 1994, removing him as chief executive and insisting that the company -- corporate jets, lavish furnishings and palatial headquarters -- be liquidated. Almost all that Mr. Whittle personally salvaged was his stake in Edison, in which he remains a substantial investor.
As Whittle Communications was being dismembered and sold, investment advisers discovered the company had not paid personal property taxes on its Channel One equipment in numerous states, and had used a disputed accounting treatment for some advertising revenue. These problems were exposed in a scathing profile of Mr. Whittle in The New Yorker in October 1994, just as Edison was trying to raise money. A mudbath of unflattering publicity followed.
The headlines made Mr. Whittle a liability for Edison, he said, and his role was sharply curtailed. Reporters who interviewed Mr. Schmidt, Edison's chief executive, in those years got the impression that Mr. Whittle was only vaguely involved.
In fact, according to Edison veterans, Mr. Whittle refused to go away. He sold parts of his own art collection and real estate -- including a sumptuous apartment in the fabled Dakota in Manhattan -- to help finance Edison. In 1998, Mr. Schmidt became chairman, and Mr. Whittle replaced him as chief executive.
Mr. Schmidt says that Mr. Whittle's performance since then shows that he is not the lavish spender he was in 1994. "I knew Chris then, and I know Chris now, and I can tell you, Chris is very smart and he learned a lot," he said.
Besides Mr. Schmidt, other nationally known educators were drawn to Edison by Mr. Whittle, including John E. Chubb, a fellow at both the Brookings Institution and the Hoover Institution at Stanford University and a leading intellectual architect of the charter-school movement. This team says Edison has raised test scores at more than three-fourths of the public schools that it manages.
But on the business side of Edison, Mr. Whittle has once again assembled a creative but financially inexperienced management team that mirrors his own strengths far more than it compensates for his demonstrated failings at things like careful cash-flow analysis. Almost none of his recruits have much, if any, comparable experience at other big companies -- a fact he said he finds unimportant, given the talent and commitment he sees in his staff.
Edison sold stock to the public in late 1999, and the company exceeded analysts' expectations in 2000. But since then, it has fallen short of Mr. Whittle's forecasts. Some investment bankers who have studied Edison say that Mr. Whittle stubbornly failed to heed warnings that profits could not be endlessly postponed without risking a loss of investor confidence.
And then there was Philadelphia.
Gov. Tom Ridge had publicly embraced Mr. Whittle, indicating that Edison would be given dozens of troubled schools to manage. But Mr. Ridge's departure for Washington after the Sept. 11 attacks cost Mr. Whittle an important ally. Public opposition caused further delays -- during which Edison was confronted with questions from the Securities and Exchange Commission about its accounting.
That dispute was settled last week, with Edison promising to improve its internal audit procedures -- a step Mr. Whittle says was already in the works -- and to revise its reported revenue to reflect expenses that are paid on its behalf by its school district clients.
But the S.E.C. matter delayed Edison's plans to raise more money by selling additional shares of stock to the public this spring. And by the time the dispute was settled, the 94 percent fall in Edison's stock price made a public share sale extremely unlikely.
"And you're right," Mr. Whittle said recently. "If we can't finance Philadelphia, we can't do Philadelphia."
His supporters are confident that he will, once again, scramble up the cliff with a fresh supply of cash for his beloved brainchild. He has promised to do so "within weeks," and at a news conference Thursday he said that five potential outside investors were now in serious discussions with the company.
"My expectation is that Chris will be able to raise capital -- and he deserves the capital, in my opinion," said John W. Childs, president of J. W. Childs Associates, a private equity firm in Boston and an early investor in Edison. Mr. Childs, who served on Edison's board until last August, said he thought that Edison's schools were good and its chosen market enormous.
Mr. Childs more than recouped his investment in Edison by selling some of his shares last March at $24.56, many times the $3.40 he paid. Those who bought those shares might not be as hopeful, he acknowledged.
"But if you had bought them from me, I'd counsel you to hold them," he said. "I think the company has plenty of potential."

GRAPHIC: Photos: H. Christopher Whittle is chief of Edison Schools. Some educators fear that a failure in the company's Philadelphia project will put back the movement toward a private marketplace of school options. Above, the Schomburg Charter School in Jersey City. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times); (Edison Schools)(pg. C1) Chart: "Whittle at a Glance"H. Christopher Whittle's 30 years as an entrepreneur have carried him from a small campus guidebook to the front lines of for-profit school management -- and from crisis to crisis. 1968 -- Whittle and school mate Philip Moffitt help create Knoxville in a Nutshell, a guide for incoming University of Tennessee freshmen, which grew into the 13-30 Corporation. 1979 -- Whittle and Moffitt, through 13-30, buy Esquire magazine. 1986 -- Moffitt and Whittle part company. Moffitt takes Esquire and sells it to Hearst. Whittle turns the rest of 13-30 into Whittle Communications. 1988 -- Whittle sells half of Whittle Communications to Time Inc. for $185 million. 1989 -- Whittle introduces Channel One, which provides televised newscasts in public schools around the country. 1992 -- Whittle unveils the Edison Project, to provide a for-profit alternative to public schools, and recruits Benno C. Schmidt Jr., Yale's president, as chief executive. 1993 -- Whittle's partners threaten to liquidate the faltering Whittle Communications, after Whittle fails to find fresh capital. 1994 -- As his former empire is sold off in pieces, Whittle turns his attention to the Edison Project. 1998 -- After years without a formal function at Edison, Whittle is named chief executive, and Schmidt becomes chairman. 1999 -- Edison goes public with an initial offering of 6.8 million shares at $18.00 a share. APRIL 2002 -- Edison Schools is picked to manage 20 public schools in Philadelphia, far fewer than investors had expected. The company's stock price starts to fall as the Securities and Exchange Commission examines the company's accounting practices. MAY 2002 -- Whittle announces the settlement of the S.E.C. dispute and promises to raise as much as $50 million the company needs to finance the Philadelphia expansion. (Sources: Knoxville News-Sentinel; "An Umpire Undone," Vance H. Trimble.)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); EDUCATION REFORM (89%); STOCK OPTIONS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); POLITICAL DEBATES (68%); INVESTMENT BANKING (64%); WRITERS (64%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (55%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; PRIVATIZATION 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE (59%) EDISON SCHOOLS; NATIONAL CENTER ON EDUCATION AND ECONOMY 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B; WHITTLE, H CHRISTOPHER (CO EXEC); TOCH, THOMAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) PHILADELPHIA (PA)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2002 



607 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: Religion Journal; 
A Big Wedding With a Smaller Bill

BYLINE:  By FRANCINE PARNES 

 BODY:
As Rabbi Heshie Hirth of Passaic, N.J., prepares to marry off a daughter this summer, his list of things to do has a novel counterpart: things not to do. That is because he is following guidelines adopted by Orthodox rabbinical authorities to curtail extravagant spending on weddings.
 At what is known as a "guidelines wedding," Rabbi Hirth will use a one-man band, and the music will be spiritual. The cost of decorations -- including flowers, centerpieces, fruit baskets and the bridal canopy -- may not exceed $1,800. Centerpieces are limited to tables for women, who according to tradition sit apart from men. The guidelines also eliminate meat-carving stations; banquet tables displaying desserts; and bars, although wine and liquor may be placed on guests' tables. 
 Under the guidelines, the wedding dinner may not exceed 400 guests, plus children, although additional guests may attend the nondinner portion. For very large families, up to 500 dinner guests are allowed. These numbers may seem generous, but against the backdrop of Jewish weddings with many hundreds of guests and cost $35,000 or more, they represent significant benchmarks.
"I want to fit within the guidelines to make the point that we have to live within our community, within our means," said Rabbi Hirth, dean of a yeshiva where the wedding will be held. "People come to see me in school and say if I am going to make a wedding within guidelines, they will do the same for their daughter."
Without specifying a maximum price, the guidelines seek to preserve family budgets and Jewish ideals.
"A primary goal is to replace $35,000 weddings with $20,000 weddings," said Shia Markowitz, of Monsey, N.Y., who did some of the research that underlies the guidelines.
"We've said: 'People, stop. Stop the peer pressure to create more lavish weddings that cost many thousands of dollars more,' " Mr. Markowitz said, citing showy smorgasbords, orchestras and ice sculptures.
The average wedding in the New York metropolitan area costs nearly $32,000, said Millie Martini Bratten, editor of Bride's Magazine. But expenses multiply in Mr. Markowitz's community of very traditional Orthodox Jews, known as haredim.
"Each family, depending on size, might have to make a wedding six, seven, eight times or more," he said, adding that many families have 10 children or more. 
"People are taking out second and third mortgages on their homes," he said. "One acquaintance went $100,000 in debt after making several weddings."
Chaim Waxman, a sociology professor at Rutgers University who specializes in Jewish studies, said: "Haredi Jews place tremendous emphasis on children, and the marriage of their children is a highlight of one's life. So one spends as much as one can and invites as many people as possible, because, after all, 'They're my community.' "
Extensive family and social networks can lead to Orthodox weddings that draw as many as 1,000 people, Professor Waxman added.
Jewish publications advertise the guidelines, with emblems to attach to invitations. With exceptions, rabbis who have signed the guidelines will not attend nonguideline weddings.
The guidelines could affect tens of thousands of Jews in New York and New Jersey, Professor Waxman said. Nearly two dozen rabbis have signed the guidelines, led by Rabbi Yaakov Perlow, head of the influential Orthodox organization Agudath Israel of America. Introduced at Agudath Israel's convention last November, the guidelines took effect in mid-March. Other regions were encouraged to adopt guidelines.
"I'm sure the guidelines will take effect in the entire country," said Rabbi Shmuel Kamenetsky, a signer from Philadelphia. "New York sets the tone, and it carries over from Philadelphia to Chicago to Los Angeles. The rabbis in each city will make their own rules."
In Los Angeles, David Altschuler, a financial adviser, liked what he read about the guidelines in a Jewish newspaper and is applying them to his daughter's June wedding.
"These guidelines are useful no matter where you are," Mr. Altschuler said. "Why look like you are trying to show off? It's not a nice thing anytime, Jewish or not."
The guidelines also limit engagement parties and encourage belt-tightening at other occasions.
"The signers felt that weddings were the most important topic to take on," said Rabbi Avi Shafran, an Agudath Israel spokesman. "If the response is good, they can suggest particular cutbacks for bar mitzvahs and other celebrations."
The rationale for the guidelines, Rabbi Shafran added, is not only social and economic but also religious. "The concept of modesty, not only in dress but in behavior and expression, is central to the Torah," he said. "Limiting excess, whether in general lifestyle or celebrations, is an inherently Jewish ideal."
Yaakov Salomon, a Flatbush psychotherapist, has already attended a wedding that followed the guidelines. He said he was not insulted that he was invited only to the ceremony.
"I was pleased that my friend felt comfortable enough to say the buck stops here," Mr. Salomon said. "When I met him at the wedding, I half-jokingly said, 'Thank you for not inviting me.' He replied in kind, 'It was my pleasure.' We danced, we embraced, and it was beautiful. I plan to do the same with him at my next child's wedding."
Steven Kohn, who owns the Atrium Plaza, a catering hall in Monsey mainly for Orthodox weddings, said the guidelines eliminated pressure on middle-class families to put on elaborate weddings. "But it would be better for rabbis to educate people to be content with what they have and not to be jealous," he said. "This would solve the root of the problem."
It is too soon to tell how demand for guideline weddings will affect the catering industry. Still, Mr. Kohn said: "You know what happens -- 5 people do it, then 10. Now people will keep up with the Joneses by making a cheaper wedding. They will say, 'If it's good enough for him, it's good enough for me.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steven Kohn, who owns the Atrium Plaza, a catering hall in Monsey, N.Y., said wedding guidelines being promulgated by Orthodox rabbis could ease financial pressure on middle-class Jewish families. (Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (93%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); RELIGION (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (88%); MARRIAGE (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); MUSIC (76%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (76%); SCULPTURE (74%); WEDDING & NEWLYWEDS MARKET (72%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (69%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (69%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS; JEWS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

PERSON: PARNES, FRANCINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2002 



608 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Council Appears to Accept Defeat Of Plan to Raise Taxes This Year 

BYLINE:  By DIANE CARDWELL 

 BODY:
City Council members are beginning to concede privately that they have all but lost the fight to raise taxes this year, even as they maneuver to stake out a negotiating position with the Bloomberg administration over the budget.
 A central disagreement between the Bloomberg administration and the Council in the efforts to make up for a projected deficit of nearly $5 billion for the fiscal year that begins on July 1 has been over whether or not to increase revenue by raising taxes. 
 Mr. Bloomberg has consistently stuck to his position that Albany will not approve tax hikes in an election year, while Council members argue that taxes are necessary to prevent harsh reductions in critical services that they say New Yorkers are unlikely to tolerate. 
The Council had proposed an assortment of taxes, including a surcharge on the personal income tax, restoration of the commuter tax, a higher property tax on absentee landlords and higher taxes on beer, wine and liquor. Under the Council's scenario, the additional revenue, estimated at nearly $1 billion, would help prevent the need to cut programs and projects in areas like education, social services, parks and libraries.
But state legislators will not approve the new taxes unless both sides of City Hall agree that they want them, and there is a growing sense within the Council that with the exception of a huge increase in the cigarette tax, the mayor will not support any new levies until after the November election.
Bill Perkins, the Council's deputy majority leader, said that while council members were still digging in their heels on their proposals, he had "a high degree of hope that in December, after the election, the mayor will see the light and join us, having protected the governor in this election cycle, to try to get the revenues that are going to be necessary, in essentially the manner that we proposed."
Edward Skyler, Mr. Bloomberg's chief spokesman, said that the mayor's position was that now is a terrible time to raise taxes, because doing so would drive away businesses as the city struggles to recover from the effects of Sept. 11 and a sour economy.
But a council member, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that he had heard Mr. Bloomberg say that asking for politically unpopular tax increases now, in an election year, would use up all his good will in Albany, since the city would only have to ask later.
In the meantime, as the Council members continue a public campaign in their districts to increase education spending, their attention has turned in earnest to the grueling task of looking for cuts.
Last Saturday, at the behest of Speaker Gifford Miller, the entire Council broke up into borough delegations and combed over approximately $700 million that they had proposed restoring to the mayor's preliminary budget, with the assignment to reduce those restorations by $200 million. They then spent Sunday looking for alternative cuts to help offset the remaining proposed restorations. Officials from the Council's finance division then sorted through those suggestions and compiled a consensus proposal of sorts.
But yesterday, Mr. Miller gathered the Democratic caucus and told them the administration had proposed restoring only about $40 million of the $700 million or so the Council was originally seeking.
Mr. Skyler would say only, "It's premature to discuss possible restoration numbers until there's agreement on what resources are available." 
But how much money the city may get with Albany's help remains up in the air, apparently locked in a web of negotiations not only over the city's budget but also over school governance and an assortment of other issues.
Lawmakers in Albany have not yet introduced legislation that would grant the city the authority to raise the cigarette tax, saying that they are waiting for the Council to signal that it has reached an agreement with Mr. Bloomberg on what to ask of the state.
Council members are now saying that they are withholding their approval of Mr. Bloomberg's tax proposal, using it as a lever in negotiations with the mayor.
For his part, Mr. Miller said yesterday that the Council would consider any bills drafted by Albany. As for the ongoing negotiations with the mayor, Mr. Miller said the Council has various options.
One of the Council's options is passing a budget of its own over the mayor's objections, which some members say may be necessary.
"I think that the mayor is underestimating the resolve of the City Council," said James Sanders Jr. of Queens. "And I would urge him to use back-door communications if he isn't already, because we are really coming to a crisis here."
Mr. Perkins, who remembers when the Council passed its own budget during the administration of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, said, "Ultimately the administration has the prerogative for spending the money, and so we obviously are cautionary." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX INCREASES (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); TAX LAW (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); LEGISLATION (69%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (68%); INCOME TAX (68%); BEER & ALE (68%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%) CARDWELL, DIANE; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2002 



609 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Federal Court Ruling Is Victory for Regional Bells
A federal appeals court ordered regulators to reconsider two important rules intended to spur competition in the local phone and high-speed Internet markets. The decision was a victory for the regional bell companies.
 While a defeat for the Federal Communications Commission, which was the defendant, the decision was a political victory for its chairman, Michael K. Powell, above, who has expressed skepticism about the rules. Page C3. 

Lehman Drops Its Bid for Tyco Unit
In a development that further complicates matters for Tyco International, Lehman Brothers Holdings, one of the company's advisers, bid about $5 billion in cash for Tyco's CIT finance unit but then withdrew the offer, executives close to the negotiations said. C4.

Mixed Reaction to US Airways Cuts
The largest US Airways unions left the first round of talks on $950 million in proposed nonmanagement cuts with mixed reactions to the demands. The airline needs the reductions to apply for a federal loan guarantee. C4.

Deal for Miller Brewing Draws Near
South African Breweries is close to clinching a deal to acquire a majority stake in Miller Brewing from the Philip Morris Companies for about $5 billion in cash and stock, people close to the companies said. C2.

Economic Growth Is Revised Down
In its first revision to the gross domestic product, the government said the economy grew at an annual rate of 5.6 percent, down from 5.8 percent reported a month ago. C2.

The French economy grew 0.4 percent in the first quarter of 2002. C2.

Chief of Energy Trader Resigns
William T. McCormick Jr., 57, the chairman and chief executive of CMS Energy, announced his resignation, less than two weeks after the company admitted conducting energy trades that artificially inflated its revenue by more than $4.4 billion. C3.

Richard D. Parsons made his first significant personnel moves as AOL Time Warner's new chief executive. C14.

Oil Prices Fall on Energy Pact
President Bush and President Vladimir V. Putin agreed to begin what Mr. Bush called a "major new energy partnership," with more American investment in Russia's oil and gas industry and faster ways for its products to reach world markets. The news sent oil prices down 27 cents, or 1 percent, to $25.88 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. C2.

Japan Banks Move Toward Recovery
After years of losses, deregulation and realignment, Japan's four big banking groups are now being forced to abandon their one-size-fits-all business model and start differentiating themselves to revive their sagging fortunes. C2.

Cooper Tire Settles Accident Suit
Cooper Tire and Rubber has settled a lawsuit over a 1998 auto accident that killed four people and seriously injured two others. The amount of the settlement, which was reached late Thursday, was not disclosed, but Cooper said it would be covered by insurance. C4.

Shares Fall in Lightest Trading Day
In the lightest trading day so far this year, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 111.82 points, or 1.09 percent, to 10,104.26, and the Nasdaq composite dropped 36.14 points, or 2.13 percent, to 1,661.49. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gave up 13.26 points, or 1.21 percent, to 1,083.82. C4.

Markets Closed Memorial Day
United States financial markets, government offices and banks will be closed on Monday in observance of Memorial Day. Financial markets will be open in other countries.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,104.26 down 111.82Nasdaq composite -- 1,661.49 down 36.1410-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.14% down 0.01The euro -- $0.9207 down 0.0009The dollar -- 124.67 yen down 0.31 Graph tracks weekly crude oil prices (near month contract) from May 2001-May 2002. Yesterday's close: 25.88 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); LITIGATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); OIL & GAS PRICES (86%); SUITS & CLAIMS (79%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CHEMICALS & RUBBER MARKETS (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (74%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); RESIGNATIONS (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); BREWERIES (67%); TIRES (62%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (61%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (60%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (72%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (68%); AOL INC (64%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (57%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (56%); CMS ENERGY CORP (53%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%); COOPER TIRE & RUBBER CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (58%)

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (68%); AOL (NYSE) (64%); TYC (NYSE) (57%); LCC (NYSE) (56%); CMS (NYSE) (53%); CTB (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (72%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (68%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (64%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (64%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (57%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (53%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (53%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (50%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (50%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (56%); RICHARD D PARSONS (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2002 



610 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Colorado's Rain and Snow Ease Fire, but Not Drought 

BYLINE:  By NICK MADIGAN 

DATELINE: DECKERS, Colo., May 24 

 BODY:
Rain and snow, rare visitors to drought-stricken Colorado, tamed a scorching wildfire today in the Pike National Forest, but did little to quell apprehension about the effects of severe drought here and in many parts of the West this summer.
 "Something like this helps, but it's a drop in the bucket," said Makoto Moore, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service who was assigned to the team managing the firefighting here in the depths of the million-acre forest. "We need a prolonged period of cool and wet weather." 
 If the past few months are any indication, such relief does not seem likely soon. What little snow there was on the state's many mountain peaks melted this winter two months ahead of schedule, leaving reservoirs and waterways -- including the Colorado River -- at depths far lower than usual. Coupled with an almost total lack of rain, the shortfall has forced cities, counties and communities to restrict water use, worried whether their reserves will hold out. 
With water for irrigation at a premium, ranchers have begun to auction off livestock to owners of more bountiful pasturelands elsewhere. Recreational fishing, a bastion of Colorado's economy, is headed for a severe downturn as aquatic habitats become gradually sparser. 
At least 35 of Colorado's 64 counties have issued outdoor fire bans, in what may be the state's worst drought in 60 years. Elsewhere, the situation is no better. Wyoming, California, Utah and Montana, as well as Colorado, need more than seven inches of rain to end the drought, experts estimate. 
The lack of rain has drastically affected wheat-growing areas of Kansas and Nebraska, and there is none in the forecast. Dust storms that caused the deaths of two motorists in Lincoln, Neb., on Wednesday prompted officials there to advise drivers to stay off highways on windy days.
On Thursday, livestock farmers urged the Senate Agriculture Committee to provide $500 million in disaster assistance to drought-stricken areas. In New Mexico, a forest fire that has burned more than 4,000 acres in the Sangre de Cristo Mountains north of Santa Fe continued to rage today. Major fires have also hit Arizona.
"The effects of the drought have been more drastic than I originally thought," said Ned Williams, utilities director for Boulder. Its City Council on Tuesday ordered, among other things, that lawns be watered no more than twice a week, and no more than 15 minutes in one spot. Violators face fines or jail. One of the city's public pools will remain closed for the summer.
"The drought is real and the quantity of our water supply is fixed and limited, and has never been at this low a level," Mr. Williams told the council.
In Lafayette, 10 miles east of Boulder, residents may not use a hose to wash cars, and pools may be filled only with the city's permission. In the 31 parks of the Denver Mountain Parks system, officials have banned everything that produces an open flame, like smoking, campfires, fireworks and welding torches. In Denver itself, officials have recommended limits on water use but have not made them mandatory. 
It is in the threat of fires that the drought reveals its greatest impact. Even as the Pike forest fire here, 60 miles southwest of Denver, weakened this morning, two new wildfires sprang to life west of Colorado Springs -- one of them caused by a power line felled by snow and wind.
"The moisture that we've gotten hasn't been around long enough to relieve the fire danger," said Richard Homann, fire division supervisor for the Colorado Forest Service. "We're seeing much more fire activity than in previous years. It's even ahead of the 2000 fire season, which was bad throughout the West. If we keep on the same pace, it will be one of the top five fire seasons in Colorado."
Colorado's fire season, which usually begins in mid-June, sprang to life on April 23, when the so-called Snaking Fire burned 3,000 acres northwest of Bailey. On May 5, the Black Mountain Fire near Evergreen forced the evacuation of 1,700 homes. This week, two major fires erupted near Nucla and Durango.
Even the relatively dense rainfall here overnight -- and snowfall at higher elevations -- failed to satisfy fire officials, who ordered more than 600 firefighters from a half-dozen states back to work this morning on the steep slopes of the Pike Forest.
The fire, which officials said they believed was sparked by lightning, flared up on Tuesday near Schoonover Gulch and within hours forced the evacuation of at least 60 people, including a group of youngsters at a Y.M.C.A. camp at which several buildings were later destroyed. Altogether, about a dozen structures burned by Thursday afternoon, when the fire had cut across some 4,000 acres.
The flames came to within one-third of a mile of Deckers, an unincorporated town made up of a handful of buildings surrounded by Ponderosa pines, Douglas firs and juniper trees. In the wake of the fire, whole hills lay in a ghostly gray haze, the ground and the trees stripped of color and life. 
Along Highway 67, closed to normal traffic, the Horse Creek Cafe and Saloon survived, unlike the hills beyond it. On a dirt road leading to the Y.M.C.A. camp, all that remained of two burned vacation houses were their chimneys. At the camp, Shady Brook Ranch, a garage and two cabins were obliterated. Nearby, a crew of firefighters marched toward the hills, while a tanker truck pumped water from a pond where the children's canoes bobbed by a dock.
"It was pretty touch-and-go there for a while," said Bill Krausser, a contractor whose property at Trail Creek, 15 miles south of Deckers, was within sight of the fire on Wednesday night. 
Mr. Krausser said he got his two horses ready for loading into a trailer, and waited for the worst. As he watched, a black bear came thundering through the property, southbound.
"He was beating feet, heading away from the fire," Mr. Krausser recalled. "Animals are smarter than people, sometimes."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A firefighter working with snow's assistance yesterday on the south side of the fire lines near Deckers, Colo. (Associated Press) Map of Colorado highlighting Deckers: Colorado is on a pace to have one of its worst fire seasons ever.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DROUGHT (94%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (91%); WEATHER (90%); FOREST FIRES (90%); FISHES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (89%); METEOROLOGY (79%); NATURAL DISASTERS (79%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); IRRIGATION (73%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); AGRICULTURE (71%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (71%); WHEAT FARMING (70%); FIRES (70%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (69%); CITIES (67%); SPORT FISHING (51%); CRIMINAL FINES (50%) WEATHER; RAIN; SNOW AND SNOWSTORMS; DROUGHT; FIRES AND FIREMEN; FOREST AND BRUSH FIRES 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE 

PERSON: MADIGAN, NICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: DURANGO, CO, USA (79%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%); LINCOLN, NE, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (94%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) COLORADO; PIKE NATIONAL FOREST (COLO); BAILEY (COLO); EVERGREEN (COLO); NUCLA (COLO); DURANGO (COLO)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2002 



611 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: Vatican Accepts Resignation Of Milwaukee's Archbishop 

BYLINE:  By LAURIE GOODSTEIN 

 BODY:
The Vatican yesterday accepted the resignation of Archbishop Rembert G. Weakland of Milwaukee, who acknowledged on Thursday that he had paid $450,000 to settle a claim that he sexually assaulted a man two decades ago.
 Supporters of the archbishop, who often challenged Vatican traditionalists on abortion, sexuality and the role of women, said they were saddened that his tenure had ended in disgrace. His critics, on the other hand, were hopeful that his successor would be more attuned to orthodoxy. 
 Archbishop Weakland, now 75, was one of the few remaining bishops appointed before Pope John Paul II's reign who challenged the Curia repeatedly. In 25 years as archbishop of Milwaukee, he placed women in positions of authority in the church, criticized militants in the anti-abortion movement and testified in favor of gay rights. He is the author or co-author of more than a dozen books, on topics like Catholic social teaching, the church since the Second Vatican Council, prayer and Catholic education. 
In the 1980's, he had the stature to lead the American bishops in the drafting of their landmark pastoral letter on the economy, which called for reordering the nation's priorities to reduce poverty and inequality, reform the welfare system and assist organized labor. But his national influence waned in recent years as the conference of American bishops grew more conservative.
"Over the years he has been a pretty inspiring person to progressive Catholics, because he certainly has been an advocate for inclusion of the laity, a greater role for women in the church and for married clergy," said Sister Maureen Fiedler, a founder of the Women's Ordination Conference. "I grieve for him today, and I feel really sad that this has happened." 
Archbishop Weakland, who has denied the accusation of sexual assault but has not addressed the question of whether he had a sexual relationship with his accuser, said through a spokesman yesterday that he would issue a public apology in the future.
He has previously welcomed the attention of the news media, and in 1991 was the subject of a two-part profile in The New Yorker in which he talked about the issue of celibacy and his struggle to control infatuations with women, saying, "I'm falling in love all the time." 
"I have to be on guard not to let my emotions run away," he said then, "not to make excuses to see someone who has set off the spark. So far, I've done pretty well."
In interviews yesterday, some of the archbishop's admirers, and detractors as well, speculated that this scandal was not a case of sexual assault but more likely a consensual homosexual relationship that ended badly. They said they were bothered more by the $450,000 settlement than by the appearance that the archbishop had strayed sexually.
Even his critics -- and they are many -- who maintain that he spent his career undermining church teaching, said they felt pity for him. An anguished letter that he wrote to his accuser in 1980 was made public on Thursday, and in it he said his mother had always warned him "not to put down on paper what I would not want the whole world to read."
"It must be devastating for him to have a private letter that he paid nearly half a million dollars to be suppressed to be bandied about in public," said Helen Hull Hitchcock, director of Women for Faith and Family, a conservative Catholic organization. "Too bad he didn't mind his mama."
With the Vatican's speedy acceptance of Archbishop Weakland's retirement, his duties are being assumed for now by Richard J. Sklba (pronounced SKILL-ba), an auxiliary bishop in the archdiocese.
It is not known when a new archbishop will be named. The process starts with the pope's representative in Washington, who will forward the names of three candidates to the Congregation for Bishops in Rome. That Vatican department sends its choice, usually but not always from among those three, to the pope, who makes the ultimate decision.
Archbishop Weakland was born in Patton, Pa., near Altoona, on April 2, 1927. He became a Benedictine monk at St. Vincent Archabbey in Latrobe, Pa., in 1949. Two years later he was ordained a priest.
"He's an intellectual," said a friend of his, the Rev. Andrew Greeley, a priest and author in Chicago. "He speaks 18 or 19 languages, he's a trained musician, so he's a man of some stature. He impresses people." 
He initially intended to teach music in the Benedictine order, and studied in Europe and at the Juilliard School. At Columbia University, he began a graduate thesis on Ambrosian chant. He did not take it up again until 1996, however, when as archbishop he took a sabbatical and returned to Columbia to finish his research.
Instead of pursuing music, he showed a talent for leadership and rose to become first the abbot at St. Vincent and ultimately, in 1967, the abbot primate, or worldwide leader, of the International Benedictine Confederation. As primate, he was based in the Vatican for 10 years.
Mrs. Hitchcock, a critic of his, said she understood that he had been a thorn in the side of some at the Vatican, and eventually Pope Paul VI decided to name him an archbishop back in his native country.
"They stuck him in what was, from the Italian perspective, a remote region of the United States," Mrs. Hitchcock said.
The Milwaukee Archdiocese today is home to more than 680,000 Catholics, 234 parishes and 255 active diocesan priests.
Archbishop Weakland was popular among his priests, granting most of them unusual autonomy in their parishes. He was an early advocate of allowing girls to be altar servers, and in the 1980's he held "listening sessions" that allowed women to air their views on abortion and birth control.
That episode prompted the Vatican in 1990 to forbid the University of Fribourg in Switzerland, affiliated with the Dominican order, to grant him an honorary doctorate. 
He often tangled with traditionalists in his archdiocese. The Milwaukee chapter of Catholics United for the Faith, with 700 members, recently campaigned against his plan to renovate the Cathedral of St. John the Evangelist. The plan involved redesign of the worship space to de-emphasize the hierarchical aspects of the liturgy.
"It is dangerous to send your child to a Catholic high school or a Catholic grade school in this archdiocese," Al Szews, president of the Milwaukee chapter of Catholics United, said yesterday, "because they don't teach Catholicism. Pop psychology has replaced theology, and unfortunately you end up with individuals who are Catholic nominally but don't understand their faith. And that is the legacy of Archbishop Weakland."
In recent months, Archbishop Weakland was criticized for refusing to identify priests who had been accused of sexual abuse but found by the archdiocese not to be a threat. Victims' groups said that in the past, he had made remarks that showed he did not understand the damage that sexual abuse can cause minors.
In 1988, for instance, he told one newspaper, The Milwaukee Catholic: "Not all adolescent victims are so innocent. Some can be sexually very active and aggressive and often quite streetwise. We frequently try such adolescents for crimes as adults at that age."
But Joe W. Zopp, a lay chaplain with Dignity, an organization of gay Catholics, said yesterday that in Archbishop Weakland the group had found a "loving, caring shepherd who has allowed us to do what we need to do to experience God."
The circumstance of his resignation, Mr. Zopp said, "doesn't change our view of him, and maybe it's because of his own weaknesses that he was able to be forgiving and helpful to other people who have had failings."
"Maybe he's been less judgmental because he knows that he himself was a human being."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Archbishop Rembert G. Weakland challenged traditionalists. (Reuters)(pg. A1); Auxiliary Bishop Richard J. Sklba will lead the archdiocese until a successor is named.; Archbishop Rembert G. Weakland blessed worshipers at Mass last week at St. John's Cathedral in Milwaukee. Yesterday, he resigned. (Photographs by Reuters)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); WOMEN (89%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); ABORTION (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); SCANDALS (77%); GAYS & LESBIANS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); WRITERS (73%); LGBT RIGHTS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); LABOR UNIONS (51%) SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; PRIESTS; SEX CRIMES 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 

PERSON: GOODSTEIN, LAURIE; WEAKLAND, REMBERT G (ABP); JOHN PAUL II (POPE); SKLBA, RICHARD J (AUXILIARY BISHOP) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (94%) WISCONSIN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); HOLY SEE (94%) MILWAUKEE (WIS)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2002 



612 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 359 words

HEADLINE: Huge Deficit May Lead Connecticut to Borrow 

BYLINE:  By PAUL ZIELBAUER 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, May 24 

 BODY:
Since Connecticut's legislative session ended on May 8 without a balanced budget for the next fiscal year in place, Democratic state lawmakers and Gov. John G. Rowland have had a hard time agreeing on when to sit down and resume discussing the problem, much less solving it.
 But this week, both sides agreed reluctantly on something else: that for the first time in 11 years, Connecticut will probably need to borrow money to pay off a current budget deficit approaching $800 million. 
 The current fiscal year ends on June 30; just a few months ago, the state's budget gap was a comparably small $350 million. But because of declining sales and income tax receipts and a flagging stock market, the deficit has steadily grown -- by more than $113 million in the last month alone, state officials said.
The 2003 fiscal year looks even worse. New projections by the governor's budget director put a shortfall for that year at about $850 million.
Just a few weeks ago, Mr. Rowland, a fiscally conservative Republican, was ridiculing Democrats who hold the majority in the State Legislature for considering using part of the $595 million in the state's Rainy Day Fund to close the current budget gap. Now the shortfall exceeds the fund's total assets.
Instead of short-term borrowing, Mr. Rowland's budget director, Marc S. Ryan, said on Thursday that the state could carry the deficit into the next year or sell bonds based on revenue expected from the state's share of settlement money from tobacco companies.
This is not the kind of problem Connecticut is accustomed to facing. The last time the state had to borrow money was 1991. Though other states, like New Jersey, are staring at far larger chasms in their annual budgets, Connecticut officials have spent the last several legislative sessions arguing over how much to increase, not trim, spending on education, health care and other state programs.
This year is also the first time the state has had a deficit since the early 1990's, when an economic recession led Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. to sell bonds to cover a gaping $965 million budget gap, just weeks after the Legislature adopted the income tax. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); CONSERVATISM (67%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: ZIELBAUER, PAUL; ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2002 



613 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Olympics Over, Salt Lake City Struggles to Save Its Downtown 

BYLINE:  By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr. 

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITY, May 24 

 BODY:
A hard reality has hit Salt Lake City since the flame for the Winter Olympics was extinguished.
 For a while, when athletes and tourists and reporters from all over the world jammed the wintry streets, the city had the festive feel of a place where things were happening. 
 Alas, downtown Salt Lake City is struggling and has been for some time.
Many downtown stores, especially along Main Street, are in deep trouble. Empty buildings that were spruced up and filled with souvenir shops during the Games have "For Lease" signs plastered on what are now grimy windows. 
Salt Lake City's banks, law firms, tourist attractions and hotels are holding up in its business district about as well as those in most cities, but its retail enterprises -- department stores and small shops -- are still losing customers to suburban malls and stores at a rate no downtown can long stand. In eight years, retail sales have declined more than 20 percent in downtown Salt Lake, including at the big Nordstrom department store.
Einstein Brothers Bagels, a Main Street landmark for years, closed on Wednesday, citing the economic malaise downtown.
Nordstrom, one of the nation's most successful department store chains, served notice a few weeks ago that it would pull out of downtown if it continued losing customers. The history of such departures is that other stores often follow, like tumbling dominoes.
"We've got a mighty tough challenge on our hands," Mayor Ross C. Anderson said. Nordstrom is in the Crossroads Plaza, one of two aging shopping centers on Main Street. The other, the ZCMI Center, is equally worn.
A new mall, Gateway, has sprung up a half a mile west of Main. There is some question whether the downtown can support even a spiffy mall, but not in Nordstrom's view. "We think this is the way to get our numbers back up; otherwise we're going to have to leave entirely," said Blake Nordstrom, the president of the company, which is based in Seattle. "We want to be good corporate citizens, but we can't do it in an old, tired mall with a weak mix of stores."
Major retailers like Nordstrom typically get multimillion-dollar rent write-offs and other sweeteners to move into malls because they draw customers.
Still, moving to Gateway is proving hard for Nordstrom.
It must deal with a promise, politics and as always in Utah, the Mormon church.
To win the city's permission to build Gateway, the developer, the Boyer Development Company, promised never to rent space to a department store like Nordstrom, lest that store bleed business from Main Street. Nordstrom argues that Boyer should be released from the pledge, or downtown Salt Lake City will end up with no Nordstrom at all.
Mayor Anderson and the seven-member City Council contend that a pledge is a pledge. "We can't be responsible for killing the rest of the stores on Main Street," said David L. Buhler, the council chairman. "We have to do what's best for the most people, not just one developer and one store. We all need to keep a dialogue going. But the pledge was part of the deal."
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints agrees.
The Mormons are not religious bystanders. The church owns one of the Main Street malls, the ZCMI Center, and it owns the land under the other one, the Crossroads. The church has been involved in business for a century and a half, going back to the day Brigham Young paused with his followers at the crest of a pass leading to the Great Salt Lake and declared, "This is the place."
In that place today can be found not only the main temple and headquarters of the Mormon church, one of the world's fastest growing churches, but also a number of Mormon-owned businesses, not the least being the ZCMI Center, an insurance company and a financial firm.
The church owns a third of the business district. In some places it insists that its prohibition of alcohol and other worldly temptations be strictly observed; in other places it does not. "We are business people, too," said the church's presiding bishop, H. David Burton. "We must protect our interests."
Mr. Nordstrom said he has talked himself "blue in the face" with Salt Lake City's municipal, business and church officials in recent years, trying to get the city and the Main Street malls to bring in more upscale stores. He said his company had done all it could to improve its merchandising in Salt Lake.
Bishop Burton conceded that the church and the city might have been slow in responding to the retailing problem downtown. But he said the church was open to new ideas about how to improve the area's business, residential and entertainment mix, and he said he saw the Nordstrom warning as a great opportunity.
"We don't claim to be perfect," he said. "If we handle this crisis right, we can set the course for our city for the second century and a half." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (92%); OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (87%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); TOURISM (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); RETAIL SALES (76%); RETAIL PROPERTY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (69%); SUBURBS (68%); RELIGION (60%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (50%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES 

COMPANY: NORDSTROM INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NORDSTROM INC 

TICKER: JWN (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (84%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (84%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%) SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES; 

PERSON: BLAKE W NORDSTROM (51%) AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (98%) UTAH, USA (98%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) SALT LAKE CITY (UTAH)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2002 



614 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: A Treaty to 'Reduce and Limit' Warheads and a Declaration of a New Relationship 

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the arms reduction treaty signed yesterday by President Bush and President Vladimir V. Putin in Moscow and from a joint declaration on strategic security, as provided by the White House. The complete texts are online at nytimes.com/world.

TREATY
Article I
 Each party shall reduce and limit strategic nuclear warheads, as stated by the President of the United States of America on Nov. 13, 2001, and as stated by the President of the Russian Federation on Nov. 13, 2001, and Dec. 13, 2001, respectively, so that by Dec. 31, 2012, the aggregate number of such warheads does not exceed 1700-2200 for each party. Each party shall determine for itself the composition and structure of its strategic offensive arms, based on the established aggregate limit for the number of such warheads. 
 Article II
The parties agree that the Start Treaty remains in force in accordance with its terms. 
Article III
For purposes of implementing this treaty, the parties shall hold meetings at least twice a year of a bilateral implementation commission. 
Article IV
1. This treaty shall be subject to ratification in accordance with the constitutional procedures of each party. This treaty shall enter into force on the date of the exchange of instruments of ratification. 
2. This treaty shall remain in force until Dec. 31, 2012, and may be extended by agreement of the parties or superseded earlier by a subsequent agreement. 
3. Each party, in exercising its national sovereignty, may withdraw from this treaty upon three months written notice to the other party.

DECLARATION
We are achieving a new strategic relationship. The era in which the United States and Russia saw each other as an enemy or strategic threat has ended. . . . We recognize that the security, prosperity and future hopes of our peoples rest on a benign security environment, the advancement of political and economic freedoms and international cooperation. 
The further development of U.S.-Russian relations and the strengthening of mutual understanding and trust will also rest on a growing network of ties between our societies and peoples. We will support growing economic interaction between the business communities of our two countries and people-to-people and cultural contacts and exchanges. 
As co-sponsors of the Middle East peace process, the United States and Russia will continue to exert joint and parallel efforts, including in the framework of the "Quartet," to overcome the current crisis in the Middle East, to restart negotiations and to encourage a negotiated settlement.
Recalling our joint statement of Nov. 13, 2001, on counternarcotics cooperation, we note that illegal drug trafficking poses a threat to our peoples and to international security, and represents a substantial source of financial support for international terrorism. We are committed to intensifying cooperation against this threat, which will bolster both the security and health of the citizens of our countries.
The United States and Russia will endeavor to make use of the potential of world trade to expand the economic ties between the two countries, and to further integrate Russia into the world economy as a leading participant. . . . In this connection, the sides give high priority to Russia's accession to the World Trade Organization on standard terms. 
Success in our bilateral economic and trade relations demands that we move beyond the limitations of the past. We stress the importance and desirability of graduating Russia from the emigration provisions of the U.S. Trade Act of 1974, also known as the Jackson-Vanik Amendment. We note that the Department of Commerce, based on its ongoing thorough and deliberative inquiry, expects to make its final decision no later than June 14, 2002, on whether Russia should be treated as a market economy under the provisions of U.S. trade law. The sides will take further practical steps to eliminate obstacles and barriers, including as appropriate in the legislative area, to strengthen economic cooperation.
The United States and Russia acknowledge the great potential for expanding bilateral trade and investment, which would bring significant benefits to both of our economies. . . . We also welcome the opportunity to intensify cooperation in energy exploration and development, especially in oil and gas, including in the Caspian region.
Battling the scourge of H.I.V./AIDS and other deadly diseases, ending family violence, protecting the environment and defending the rights of women are areas where U.S. and Russian institutions, and especially nongovernmental organizations, can successfully expand their cooperation.
The United States and Russia recognize the profound importance of preventing the spread of weapons of mass destruction and missiles. The specter that such weapons could fall into the hands of terrorists and those who support them illustrates the priority all nations must give to combating proliferation.
In that regard, we will establish joint expert groups to investigate means of increasing the amount of weapons-usable fissile material to be eliminated, and to recommend collaborative research and development efforts on advanced, proliferation-resistant nuclear reactor and fuel cycle technologies. We also intend to intensify our cooperation concerning destruction of chemical weapons.
The United States and Russia call on all countries to strengthen and strictly enforce export controls, interdict illegal transfers, prosecute violators and tighten border controls to prevent and protect against proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. 
The United States and Russia agree that a new strategic relationship between the two countries, based on the principles of mutual security, trust, openness, cooperation and predictability, requires substantive consultation across a broad range of international security issues. To that end we have decided to establish a consultative group for strategic security to be chaired by foreign ministers and defense ministers with the participation of other senior officials. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (67%); TERRORISM (50%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (50%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (88%) PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%) UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2002 



615 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: TRACES OF TERROR: THE LEGISLATION; 
After Spate of Political Sparring, House Approves an Emergency Spending Bill

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 24 

 BODY:
After two days of fierce political sparring, the House early this morning approved a $29 billion emergency spending bill to pay for military operations, domestic security and aid to New York City.
 House Republican leaders pushed the legislation to passage just before 3 a.m., determined to be able to showcase on Memorial Day a vote to support President Bush and the nation's military and counterterrorism operations. 
 The 230-to-138 vote showed wide support for legislation that contains money for military operations in Afghanistan, stepped up intelligence operations, airline security, aid to Israel and the Palestinians and $5.5 billion for New York's recovery efforts.
Still, more than half of the House's Democrats voted against the measure, primarily because Republican leaders slipped in language preparing the way for an increase on the $5.9 trillion ceiling on federal borrowing, avoiding a politically painful direct vote on the issue. The language would allow an increase in the debt ceiling to be included in the final agreement with the Senate on an antiterrorism package. 
The House vote sets up a confrontation with the Senate, which is to consider a more expensive $31 billion version of the bill after the Memorial Day recess. 
President Bush said in a statement today: "I expect the Senate to only spend on what is necessary to fight the war and for our immediate emergency needs. With our nation now at war, now is not the time for unnecessary spending on lower priority terms."
The Senate measure includes more money than the president requested to help local police, firefighters and emergency workers, for port security and to fight bio-terrorism.
The unexpectedly long and bitter House fight over the emergency bill showed just how partisan Congress is becoming as the November elections get closer. Democrats began dragging out the debate after House Republican leaders inserted into the bill a host of political favors for Republicans and the language on the debt ceiling. The favors included a textile protection measure and special Medicare reimbursement rates for selected hospitals.
The Democrats, who plan to present themselves in the fall elections as the stewards of fiscal stability, argued that the return to federal deficits and the need for more borrowing are primarily the result of Mr. Bush's centerpiece $13 trillion, 10-year tax cut. They said that by trying to avoid a direct vote to raise the federal debt ceiling to allow more borrowing, Republicans were trying to escape responsibility for a return to deficits. 
"When it comes time to pay the bill for that tax cut you don't want to be seen," said Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the minority leader.
Republicans, eager for their party to ride Mr. Bush's wartime popularity in the fall, accused Democrats of turning their back on the armed forces. "They retreated from the responsibility to put politics aside when the time comes to strengthen our military," said Representative Tom DeLay, the House majority whip from Texas, at a news conference.
While the House bill was originally projected to cost $29.4 billion, Republicans altered it slightly early this morning and recalculated the costs of some provisions affecting airlines to bring down the cost. The bill freezes until the new fiscal year the $10 billion loan guarantee program Congress created to help airlines after the terrorist strikes.
Senator Tom Daschle, the South Dakota Democrat who is the majority leader, indicated today that he would not make it easy for House Republicans to avoid a direct vote on raising the debt ceiling. He said he planned to try pushing a stand-alone bill through the Senate that would increase the government's $5.95 trillion borrowing limit, probably by about $350 billion, and send it to the House for passage.
Mr. Bush has requested a $750 billion increase, enough to cover anticipated borrowing needs through 2004. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (94%); APPROVALS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); POLITICS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TRENDS (76%); HIJACKING (75%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); HARBOR & PORT SECURITY (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (71%); AIRLINES (70%); MEDICARE (68%); TAX LAW (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; PALESTINIANS; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; NATIONAL DEBT (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%) UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); ISRAEL; AFGHANISTAN; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2002 



616 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Bush Pledges Partnership With Russians on Energy

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, May 24 

 BODY:
President Bush and President Vladimir V. Putin agreed today to begin what Mr. Bush called a "major new energy partnership," with more American investment in Russia's oil and gas industry and faster ways for its products to reach world markets.
 Today's joint statement, made in a gilded hall of the Kremlin, was seen by analysts more as an American nod to Russia's energy might than as an agenda for concrete action. 
 "It was simply an acknowledgment of what we have come to realize for some time -- that Russia does have a plan for increasing its role in global energy," said Christopher Weafer, head of research at Troika Dialog, a Moscow brokerage firm. 
But the nod is important for Russia, which is just pulling out of a decade of severe economic decline. Russia's huge oil and gas resources and its expanding ability to export them are a source of growing prestige and influence.
"When Mr. Putin makes official visits, he knows he is the second- biggest oil producer, and that half of Europe depends on him for natural gas," said Boris Fyodorov, a former finance minister and a member of the board of Gazprom, Russia's gas monopoly. "That gets him a place at the table."
Russia's developing role in world energy markets drew attention last fall when the OPEC cartel demanded that Russia, which is not a member, cap its rising oil exports to help constrain world supply. When Russia refused, oil prices plummeted.
After entreaties from Mexico and Norway, two other major non-OPEC producers, the largely privately owned Russian oil industry relented and agreed to a small temporary trim in exports early this year; it was lifted last week.
Today's news sent oil prices down 27 cents, or 1 percent, to $25.88 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
While exports were held back a bit, production kept rising, and Russian output is expected to grow 7 percent this year, as companies like Yukos Oil and Sibneft reap the benefits of recent capital investments.
"Those resources can add to the energy security and energy stability in the world," said Commerce Secretary Donald L. Evans yesterday at a meeting with his Russian counterpart, German Gref.
Getting the oil to foreign markets has been a challenge. Russia has limited seaport capacity, and neither its ports nor those of former Soviet republics like Latvia can accommodate the immense tankers needed for profitable shipping across the Atlantic or the Pacific.
As a result, little Russian oil reaches the United States now; most goes to Europe. In their joint statement on energy today, President Bush and President Putin agreed to work together to modernize ports, pipelines and refineries to smooth the export flow. Those changes could also make shipments to North America economically viable.
"It's all about the cost of transport," said Mikhail Brudno, vice president for sales at Yukos, Russia's No. 2 producer after Lukoil. "Now it's just not effective, because the transport costs are too high."
Yukos recently bought part of a Slovakian pipeline with an eye on reaching a Mediterranean port that could be used to supply the United States. Lukoil wants to develop a major port in Murmansk with the same goal.
"America is the biggest market -- we can't ignore it," Mr. Brudno said.
Russian crude need not physically reach the United States to benefit American consumers, because oil is a globally traded commodity, and increases in supply anywhere can lower prices everywhere.
"The Russians have a lot of oil to sell, and the U.S. wants to reduce its dependence on the Persian Gulf, but the oil market doesn't work like that," said Leo Drollas, deputy director at the Center for Global Energy Studies in London. "In terms of security of supply, it doesn't matter whether Russian oil goes to Baltimore or Rotterdam; it just matters that it's not left in the ground."
Direct foreign investment has been slow to penetrate Russia, where frequently shifting tax rules, rigid currency controls and other problems can make doing business awkward for foreign companies. But that may be changing. Last fall, Exxon Mobil pledged about $4 billion to begin developing offshore fields in the far east of Russia, and last month, BP showed renewed faith in a formerly troubled investment in Sidanco, a Russian oil company, by increasing its stake.
Mr. Bush today called on American businesses to "take the lead in developing the vast energy resources of Russia and the Caspian."
But Russian energy executives have opposed direct foreign involvement in Russian oil fields. Instead, they say, foreign companies should gain access to Russian crude by buying stock in Russian companies. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); CARTELS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); FUTURES (77%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); OIL EXTRACTION (77%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); HARBORS & PORTS (60%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (68%); OAO NK YUKOS (63%); CJSC TROIKA DIALOG (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (54%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (68%); GAZP (RTS) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (68%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (68%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (68%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (68%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (68%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (68%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%) TAVERNISE, SABRINA; PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); NORWAY (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LATVIA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2002 



617 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-8

Bush and Putin Sign Pact Cutting Nuclear Weapons
President Bush and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia signed a treaty in the Kremlin that commits both nations to the most dramatic nuclear cuts in decades, leading to the development of what Mr. Bush called "an entirely new relationship" with Russia. A1

Pakistan to Test Missiles
Pakistan risked setting off a new crisis in its military standoff with India by announcing that it would begin a series of missile tests. At the same time, tensions between the two countries appeared to decline sharply, a fact which Pakistani political analysts say reflects new commitments made privately through Washington by President Pervez Musharraf. A1

New Type of Suicide Attacks
Israeli officials warned of a new phase of Palestinian attacks that might include a shift toward making targets of strategic sites with methods more sophisticated than those used by lone suicide bombers. A3

Review of Battle Finds Blame
A military review of a battle in eastern Afghanistan in early March that left seven American soldiers dead found intelligence lapses, radio glitches and miscommunications between commanders and commandos, officials said. But Gen. Tommy R. Franks, the head of allied forces in Afghanistan, defended the operation and blamed clever Qaeda fighters, unforgiving terrain and the "fog and friction" of war. A3

Whaling Rights Denied
Japan led a successful effort at the meeting of the International Whaling Commission to deny Alaska and Siberian native peoples a renewal of permission to hunt whales. It was the first time in the 56-year history of the commission that quotas allowing aboriginal subsistence whaling had been rejected. A4

World Briefing A7

NATIONAL A9-14

States Say Terror Alerts Are Too Vague to Act On
Officials in 44 states said they took no special action despite warnings from the Bush administration about the threat of additional terrorist attacks. The state security czars said the alerts were too vague and their over burdened agencies already stand at heightened readiness. A1

A senior F.B.I. agent in Minneapolis has accused a supervisor at F.B.I. headquarters of altering a report in a way that made it impossible for investigators to obtain crucial evidence in the case of Zacarias Moussaoui, the so-called 20th hijacker, before the Sept. 11 attacks. A10

Archbishop Resigns
The Vatican accepted the resignation of Archbishop Rembert G. Weakland of Milwaukee, who acknowledged on Thursday that he had paid $450,000 to settle a decades-old sexual abuse claim. A1

Emergency Spending
The House passed a $29 billion emergency spending bill to pay for military operations, domestic security and aid to New York City. The vote set up a confrontation with the Senate, which has its own $31 billion bill. A11

Incumbent Looks Strong
Republicans thought Senator Max Baucus of Montana was one the most vulnerable Democrats up for re-election this year. But the Republicans' strongest prospects decided not to enter the race, making Mr. Baucus a heavy favorite to win a fifth term. A9

A Fight Over Citrus Trees
A judge found that a new law giving Florida the power to chop down healthy citrus trees was unconstitutional. A12

Deflated Economy
Downtown Salt Lake City is struggling despite being given a lift by the Winter Olympics. Empty buildings, which were spruced up and filled with souvenir shops during the Games, have "For Lease" signs plastered on their windows. A14

Religion Journal A14

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Archdiocese Suspends Cleric After Accusation
The Archdiocese of New York ordered the suspension of the monsignor in charge of fund-raising after a man accused him of an improper relationship 20 years ago. The monsignor, Charles M. Kavanagh, was ordered not to act as a priest and was removed from his positions as the archdiocese's vicar for development and as pastor of St. Raymond's Church in the Bronx. A1

Focus on Terrorism
The National Park service activated a face recognition surveillance system in Lower Manhattan that will focus mostly on tourists. The move was a response to a potential terrorist attack on the Statue of Liberty. Officials said they hoped that the cameras would deter potential terrorists as much as catch them. B1

Redistricting Negotiations
Talks over new Congressional districts intensified after a federal court said it would impose its own plan unless the State Legislature acted soon. How New York redraws its congressional lines could be one of the factors in determining whether the national Republican Party can on to its slim majority in the House of Representatives. B4

ART & IDEAS B7-16

SPORTS D1-8

Olympic Head Quits
Sandra Baldwin, head of the United States Olympic Committee, resigned after saying she had lied about her educational background. A1

OBITUARIES A18

Richard D. Mudd
A doctor who waged a campaign for seven decades seeking to clear his grandfather of complicity in the assassination of Abraham Lincoln, he was 101. A18

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Gathering Enron Papers
The White House ordered staff members in the executive office of the president to turn over all documents about their contacts with Enron. The move was considered an effort to avert a legal confrontation with a Senate committee that issued subpoenas this week seeking the information. C1

A Link and a Denial
A federal prosecutor said a San Diego stock adviser who was accused of bribery may have had prior knowledge of the Sept. 11 attacks. A lawyer for the adviser dismissed the accusation. C1

Brokers' Lament
There is lingering resentment among some of Merrill Lynch's 14,000 brokers over the investment recommendations the firm's analysts made during the technology-stock boom of the late 1990's and of how the firm's executives have defended the analysts. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: Heading off nuclear terrorism; medical marijuana in court; a vote for the history books.

Columns: Frank Rich.

Bridge B15
TV Listings B16
Crossword B14
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WHALING (89%); TERRORISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (87%); RELIGION (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (74%); SEX OFFENSES (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); HIJACKING (69%); SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS (68%); LEGISLATION (68%); APPROPRIATIONS (68%); EVIDENCE (61%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); RESIGNATIONS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL WHALING COMMISSION (54%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2002 



618 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: Bush and Putin Sign Pact for Steep Nuclear Arms Cuts 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER and MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, May 24 

 BODY:
In a day devoted to celebrating what President Bush called "an entirely new relationship" with Russia, he and President Vladimir V. Putin signed a treaty today to commit their nations to the most dramatic nuclear arms cuts in decades. But both men tried to smooth over a disagreement about continued Russian exports of nuclear technology to Iran.
 The three-page Treaty of Moscow was signed early this afternoon inside the Kremlin, in a 300-year-old throne room built by the Russian czars and used today to end what Mr. Bush called "a long chapter of confrontation." While that confrontation has steadily eased since the Soviet empire began to unravel in 1989, the accord today cleared the way for what Mr. Bush and Mr. Putin hailed as a new era of cooperation focused on counterterrorism, trade, Russia's new relationship with NATO and halting the spread of nuclear arms, 
 The treaty commits both countries to reducing their arsenals, now about 6,000 warheads each, to no more than 2,200 at the end of 2012. But then the treaty expires, meaning that either nation would be free to rearm starting the next year unless the agreement was extended or amended. Excerpts, Page A7. 
Critics of the accord contend that it will leave Russia with a large supply of deactivated warheads that could fall into the hands of terrorists if they are not sufficiently guarded, and that it frees the United States to stockpile warheads that can easily be reattached to missiles.
Mr. Bush's aides counter that none of the past arms control deals have regulated the complicated process of actually dismantling warheads.
The treaty was signed almost exactly 30 years after President Nixon and the Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev signed the Antiballistic Missile Treaty and the first of the strategic arms limitations treaties here. Mr. Bush said he had come to end that era, and his national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, said the accord should not be considered the first Russian-American treaty of the 21st century but "the last treaty of the last century."
Nonetheless, either country can withdraw from the treaty with only three months' notice, and when asked today why it was necessary to keep 2,000 nuclear weapons loaded atop missiles, Mr. Bush made it clear that the future was as unpredictable as the Soviet Union's end a decade ago.
"Friends really don't need weapons pointed at each other, we both understand that," Mr. Bush said. "But it's a realistic assessment of where we've been. Who knows what will happen 10 years from now? Who knows what future presidents will say and how they'll react?"
It was just for that reason that Mr. Putin insisted on a formal treaty, rather than what Mr. Bush first proposed, an informal agreement between two presidents. But as Secretary of State Colin L. Powell noted recently, the Senate also demanded a treaty, so that it would be able to review the nuclear arms cuts. Both the Senate and Russia's Parliament are expected to ratify the treaty, but Mr. Bush made no predictions today how long that would take.
He also defended the administration's decision to store many of its warheads as a "quality control" measure. "If you have a nuclear arsenal, you want to make sure that they work," he said.
Mr. Putin added: "Out there, there are other states who possess nuclear arms. There are countries that want to acquire weapons of mass destruction." Neither president mentioned China, but by most estimates it has about two dozen intercontinental ballistic missiles.
While the signing of the treaty was the centerpiece of the day, Mr. Putin's mind was clearly on his country's economic state, only four years after the collapse of the ruble, which sent many foreign investors fleeing. Economic growth is back -- and he talked during a news conference about Russia's need to gain membership in the World Trade Organization, and for the Congress to revoke cold war-era restrictions on economic relations. 
The two leaders' efforts to cement the unpredicted partnership they have developed over the last year hit one sour note: a clear difference of opinion about Russia's continued sale of its nuclear expertise to Iran, one of the countries Mr. Bush has identified as a member of the "axis of evil."
Mr. Bush told reporters, "We spoke very frankly and honestly" about the need to make sure "a nontransparent government run by radical clerics doesn't get their hands on weapons of mass destruction."
But Mr. Putin immediately shot back that cooperation between Iran and Russia was not "of a character that would undermine the process on nonproliferation." He said Russia's aid was entirely focused on nuclear energy projects -- projects that the Bush administration says are unnecessary in an oil-rich nation.
Mr. Putin then threw the issue back at Mr. Bush, noting that "we have some questions concerning development of missile programs in Taiwan," which receives American technological aid, and said that "the U.S. has taken a commitment upon themselves to build similar nuclear power plants in North Korea." This was a reference to a 1994 accord with North Korea, in which the United States committed itself to helping the country build two "proliferation-resistant" nuclear power plants, but only after the North allows further international inspection of its suspected nuclear sites, something Iran has resisted.
This evening a senior administration official said that Mr. Putin had privately assured Mr. Bush that "they are not now, nor would they, do anything to contribute to the Iranian military nuclear program or ballistic missile program." But in that meeting, he also defended Russia's dealings with Iran.
In a flurry of side agreements, Mr. Bush and Mr. Putin inaugurated a "joint experts group" to develop a plan within six months to destroy or convert for commercial use Russia's large stockpile of highly enriched uranium and plutonium. Russia is estimated to have 1,000 tons of such material, and there is considerable debate over how well protected it is.
The United States intelligence agencies have warned for years of the danger that the material could fall into the hands of terrorists, or that underpaid Russian nuclear scientists could divert some of the material to a rogue state or a terrorist group. In news conferences and interviews, Mr. Bush and his aides have not seemed extremely concerned by the prospect, insisting that they have received assurances about the country's nuclear security. 
But in a recent op-ed article in The Washington Post, former Defense Secretary William J. Perry, former Senator Sam Nunn and the former commander of the American strategic nuclear forces, Gen. Eugene Habinger, charged that the administration had no "coherent strategy" to secure the Russian nuclear supplies and had failed to insist on an accurate accounting of existing weapons.
Other experts, like Graham Allison of Harvard, have contended that today's treaty addresses the lesser threat: nuclear warheads controlled by the two governments, rather than nuclear material that may be on the loose. 
The dispute over Iran aside, the summit meeting seemed as warm, if more formal, than the one last November at the Bush ranch in Texas.
Throughout his day, Mr. Bush struck a relaxed, even casual demeanor amid the blindingly gilded splendor of the Kremlin. Early in the day, as cameras began taping the two presidents' remarks after two hours of talks, Mr. Bush was captured slyly removing a candy or gum from his mouth.
Later, as he finished signing the nuclear arms treaty and a strategic relationship agreement in St. Catherine's Hall, the president directed an impish wink at Ms. Rice, who is an expert on the Russian military.
It was Ms. Rice who, three years ago, wrote an article in Foreign Affairs expressing deep suspicion of Mr. Putin and his motives. Tonight she helped celebrate the treaty at a dinner at his house.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and President Bush at the signing ceremony yesterday for a treaty that mandates sharp cuts in nuclear arms. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A1); President Bush and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia took questions from members of the news media yesterday in a 300-year-old throne room where the two men signed an arms-reduction treaty at the table at left. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (94%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); TERRORISM (68%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (67%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (92%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%) SANGER, DAVID E; WINES, MICHAEL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2002 



619 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Sound of One Saber Rattling 

BYLINE:  By Max Frankel; Max Frankel, a former executive editor of The Times, served earlier as diplomatic correspondent in Washington and then as bureau chief.

 BODY:
 THE PARADOX
OF AMERICAN POWER
Why the World's Only Superpower
Can't Go It Alone.
By Joseph S. Nye Jr.
222 pp. New York:
Oxford University Press. $26.
 Take pity on our foreign policy wonks. Gone are the blessedly simple, bipolar days when containment of Soviet power governed and defined American diplomacy and military action. Now the analysts strain to describe the world's chaos. National laws and frontiers are failing to contain not only terrorists but also global corporations, financial speculators, industrial polluters, illegal migrants, drug smugglers, disease bearers. The very idea of sovereign geographic control has lost much of its meaning. 
As Joseph S. Nye Jr. demonstrates in "The Paradox of American Power," there is an almost ludicrous competition for jargon to describe the world's present imbalance of power ("unipolar," "unimultipolar," "hybrid unimultipolar") and for words that might encapsulate a wise foreign policy. He generally scorns "unilateralists" (also known as "triumphalists" or "sovereigntists"), who deem America so dominant that it should just look out for itself -- the folks who were most influential at the Pentagon in the early months of the Bush administration. Nye, a Democratic wonk and the dean of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, champions the cause of "a la carte multilateralists," who mostly (but not always) favor cooperative ventures that balance the interests of collaborating nations -- the types who reside mainly at the State Department. 
Yet for all his experience in government and his worldly common sense, Nye proves in his analyses how mired we all are in the mud of nationalism, unable to devise a genuine transnational policy that would let us begin to function as citizens of the world. He recognizes the need for "a representative form of global governance," for "multilateral laws and institutions that constrain others and provide a framework for cooperation" and maybe even for "a loose constitutional framework" with parts of Europe. But his imagination shrinks from his own logic. He does not much speculate on how we might get from here to there. 
Maybe pre-Sept. 11 America still needed Nye's main message: the "paradox" that although the United States will long remain militarily and economically supreme, it will become increasingly dependent on other peoples to defeat terrorism, protect the environment, control weapons of mass destruction, regulate trade and deal with a host of other borderless problems. Though the "hard power" of our military and economic might will not soon be challenged, he rightly argues that we also need "soft power," the influence and respect that we gain from our democratic values but risk losing by "unilateralism, arrogance and parochialism." 
Surely by the morning of Sept. 12, however, when we were begging Muslim societies to help hunt Osama bin Laden, no go-it-aloner would deny Nye's point. He duly amended his manuscript and even says that the attacks on New York and Washington sounded his alarm "far more effectively than any pen could." But he responds only weakly to his own challenge that "we still need to determine how to use the current decades of our pre-eminence to advance long-term national and global interests." 
How indeed. Nye flirts here and there with genuinely radical propositions, then drowns them in dense prose lest readers mistake him for some kind of idealist. For example, he quotes with obvious approval Daniel Bell's observation that the nation-state has "become too small for the big problems of life and too big for the small problems." Simply put, the nation-state is becoming an obstacle to effective problem-solving. Technology in general, the speed of communication and the information revolution are eroding the control that individual governments once had over their people and corporations. 
But if most governments are fast losing control over their frontiers and economies, it is hard to know how much faith to invest in the idea of national sovereignty, which Nye nonetheless asks us to respect and protect. He is palpably reluctant to explore the implications of his own best, unconventional ideas. 
Near the start of his book, Nye writes, "The impact of American preponderance is softened when it is embodied in a web of multilateral institutions that allow others to participate in decisions and that act as a sort of world constitution to limit the capriciousness of American power." Enmesh America in a "transnational web"? That limits "American capriciousness"? And acts as "a sort of world constitution"? 
Yes. But now see Nye run: two chapters on he insists that he wants no truck with "world government," only "networks" coexisting with "a world formally divided into sovereign states." That retreat soon requires him to list the practices of transnational and offshore supercorporations, which had seemed to be among his problems, as part of his solutions. Then again he concedes that the networks he envisions would not fairly represent public interests. Oh, well, he decides, "our democratic theory has not caught up with global practice." End of vision. 
The worthy but vague prescriptions that close this book resemble the position papers that a diplomatic Polonius might offer the secretaries of state or defense, whom Nye has occasionally served: preserve regional balances; promote free trade; keep open the oceans, the air and cyberspace; cooperate with nations to curb weapons proliferation and to promote peacekeeping and human rights; send aid to developing societies; mediate others' disputes. 
Sadly avoided are the many tough, specific, truly paradoxical tensions that Nye's values produce. How, for instance, can the United States and a few other self-appointed nations wield the Bomb without appearing "unilateral" and "arrogant" to those they exclude from the club? Or by what logic do we haul a Milosevic before a world court whose authority we then refuse to extend to Americans? 
Simply accepted by Nye is the proposition that the highest goal of American foreign policy should be the preservation of our power within a congenial environment of sovereign nations. If to his own logic Nye were true, he would bid us to lead the world in abandoning some of our eroding sovereignty and subscribing to genuinely independent and representative global institutions. That, for a mighty superpower, would be a paradox worthy of notice. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN POLICY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (76%); SMUGGLING (75%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (75%); TERRORISM (75%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (55%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (55%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (55%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: APC-MGE (92%); OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT & COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3629 ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIAL APPARATUS, NEC (92%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: FRANKEL, MAX; NYE, JOSEPH S JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

TITLE: PARADOX OF AMERICAN POWER, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



620 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: Peculiar Institution 

BYLINE:  By James Goodman; James Goodman, the author of "Stories of Scottsboro," teaches history at Rutgers University, Newark.

 BODY:
 AT THE HANDS
OF PERSONS UNKNOWN
The Lynching of Black America.
By Philip Dray.
Illustrated. 528 pp. New York:
Random House. $35.
 Sam Hose was a 21-year-old black farm worker in Palmetto, Ga. In April 1899 he approached his white boss, Alfred Cranford, to talk about wages. Hose may have asked Cranford for an advance or for money owed to him. He wanted to visit his mother, who was ill. Hose and Cranford argued. Cranford drew a gun. Hose grabbed an ax and swung. Cranford fell. Hose fled. Cranford died. 
The next day, newspapers reported that the "fiend incarnate" had not only murdered Cranford but also raped his wife. The papers described the crime in pornographic detail and predicted that as soon as Hose was caught he would be "burned at the stake." After a 10-day manhunt, two men found him, at his mother's. They handed him over to the sheriff, who handed him over to a mob.
Word reached Atlanta just as church let out. People rushed to the train station. The railroad added two special excursions to Palmetto. That afternoon, about 5,000 people watched mob leaders cut off Hose's ears, fingers and genitals, before dousing him with kerosene and setting him on fire. 
Historians often say that laymen know little about history. But they understand that if Americans have never heard of Sam Hose or do not know much about lynching, they themselves are largely to blame. Despite many superb historical monographs, there is no modern synthesis, no big, accessible book that brings the latest scholarship to lay readers. This, apparently, is what Philip Dray set out to provide with "At the Hands of Persons Unknown."
Dray, an independent scholar whose previous books include "We Are Not Afraid: The Story of Goodman, Schwerner, and Chaney and the Civil Rights Campaign for Mississippi," admits that he himself knew little about lynching before his first visit to Tuskegee Institute's lynching archives. For him, the word had evoked images of rough frontier justice for cattle rustlers and card cheats, and aberrational racial violence in the South. 
He quickly learned that lynching was not an aberration, in the South or anywhere else. It had begun on the colonial frontier, where the population was sparse and the arm of the law did not reach. In the absence of constables and courts, citizens took the law into their own hands. During the American Revolution, one of those citizens, a Virginian named Charles Lynch, set up his own court to punish plundering Tories. When the Tories sued, the legislature exonerated Lynch, ruling that his actions, though not "strictly warranted by the law," were justified by imminent danger. Today the word "lynch" means to execute without due process of the law.
Before the Civil War, more white people were lynched than black people. Most black people were slaves, private property punished by their masters. Lynching became a distinctly racial ritual only after emancipation. Former slaves wanted to move freely, own land, educate their children and vote. White Southerners wanted them to plant and pick their cotton, preferably as landless, illiterate, disfranchised and utterly dependent laborers. Lynching (and the rape of black women) was a means to ensure they got their way.
Hundreds of African-Americans were lynched each year during Reconstruction, and many times that number each year following the North's retreat in 1877. The peak, but not the end, came in the 1890's, when continuing racial conflict coincided with bitter economic conflict among white Southerners. With cracks in the "solid South" raising the specter of interracial political alliances, huge "spectacle lynchings" reinforced white solidarity across class lines. 
Dray's book is broader than its subtitle suggests. In addition to telling the stories of Sam Hose and scores of other victims of lynching, Dray writes vividly about murders, race riots and several significant trials in which prosecutors and judges recklessly trampled on defendants' civil rights. He devotes half his pages to the century-long struggle against mob violence that began with the agitation of Ida B. Wells. Her research and writings gave the lie to the notion that lynching was necessary to protect white women from bestial black men. Wells discovered that few mob victims were even accused of rape. Most lynchings followed disputes over wages, slight breaches of racial etiquette, accusations of petty theft and attempts by white people to divert attention from their own transgressions. 
But if Dray's book is more than a history of lynching, it is also less. In these pages only "race leaders" fight lynching. Ordinary African-Americans appear simply as victims. Yet when ordinary African-Americans possessed a modicum of political power or economic independence, they attempted to prevent lynchings, whether by standing up to a mob, sneaking a fugitive out of town or forcing a local sheriff to protect him. 
Dray also misses the opportunity to show how all the talk of rape, wholly oppressive to black men and women, also circumscribed the behavior of white women. The assumption was that helpless white women needed protection. White men offered it, but only to those who knew their place. When they didn't, and especially when they dared to look for love or pleasure across the color line, all hell broke loose. 
Still, "At the Hands of Persons Unknown" is filled with history we need to know. If it is not the last (or even the latest) word, it may inadvertently demonstrate that when it comes to lynching, a sweeping synthesis or any other kind of big book is not necessarily what we need. 
Every historical subject demands its own form. Lynching may demand monographs and microhistories (along with novels, photographs and poems), forms in which God -- or the Devil -- is in the details. That's partly because there were so many lynchings: thousands in the century after the Civil War, in thousands of different places, each one densely packed with meaning. 
And it's partly because at the heart of every lynching there is a horrible silence: the victims cannot speak. When we read too many accounts at once, the silence becomes unbearable. Often, the only thing we know about those who were murdered is how they died. Dray can't fill that silence. No historian can. But he has bestowed upon us the gift, and the burden, of some of their names. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); FARM LABOR (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (74%); DUE PROCESS (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); RACE & RACISM (73%); TRAINS (72%); HISTORY (70%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%); LITERATURE (69%); SHERIFFS (69%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (67%); CIVIL RIGHTS (67%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (60%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: GOODMAN, JAMES; DRAY, PHILIP 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: AT THE HANDS OF PERSONS UNKNOWN (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



621 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1489 words

HEADLINE: Mosque and State 

BYLINE:  By Robin Wright; Robin Wright, the author of "Sacred Rage: The Wrath of Militant Islam," is a diplomatic correspondent for The Los Angeles Times.

 BODY:
 JIHAD
The Trail of Political Islam.
By Gilles Kepel.
Translated by Anthony F. Roberts.
454 pp. Cambridge, Mass.:
The Belknap Press/
Harvard University Press. $29.95.
 No political trend has taken the world more by surprise over the past quarter century than the eruption of militant Islam -- in fomenting revolution in the 1970's, in taking on both superpowers and helping bring one down in the 1980's, and in building a global terror network in the 1990's. For many in the West, the exotic and remote "Mohammedanism" of the preoil, preindependence and pre-Israel days has evolved into the force behind the world's premier security threat. 
So "Jihad: The Trail of Political Islam" will be a welcome respite for anyone who fears the fury associated with militant Islam. Despite the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 and the Palestinian suicide bombings in Israel, Gilles Kepel argues that the trend is, in fact, now on its last legs. The violence is merely a reflection of the movement's failure, not its success. "The attack on the United States was a desperate symbol of the isolation, fragmentation and decline of the Islamist movement, not a sign of its strength and irrepressible might," he writes. And while he concedes that the Israeli-Palestinian conflict may provoke further attacks under the mantle of holy war, violence "has proven to be a deathtrap for Islamists as a whole." 
This is, to say the least, a controversial if intriguing theory. Kepel, an Arabist and a professor at the Institute for Political Studies in Paris, comes to this conclusion in a thoughtful and expansive chronicle of the contemporary Islamist movement from Cairo to Kabul, from Kuala Lumpur all the way to "Londonistan." Divided into two sections, the book covers the rise and predicted fall of the modern militant jihad. 
As Kepel sees it, the onset of the current Islamist movement was symbolized by Egypt's decision in 1966 to hang Sayyid Qutb, one of the most influential early Islamist theorists. Qutb rejected nationalism, which filled a void when the Muslim world was in disarray after colonialism. He believed it weakened the Islamic world by dividing it into more than 50 nations, and he equated it with the pagan state of ignorance before the revelation of Islam to the prophet Muhammad. His best sellers urged the creation of a "new Koranic generation" to build a sequel to the prophet's first Muslim community. Like his contemporaries, who included Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini and Pakistan's Mawlana Mawdudi, Qutb redefined the political discourse by offering an alternative vision. His execution reflected the emerging chasm between the state and the Islamists.
The movement became more visible after the 1973 Arab-Israeli war. The Saudi-led oil embargo ultimately generated unprecedented wealth that let the kingdom bankroll Islamist causes worldwide. Three social dynamics -- soaring population, literacy and the pull of the city -- also spurred the trend. The Islamic world's population increased by 50 percent between 1955 and 1970. Some 60 percent of the Muslim world was under 24 years old by 1975. Many were among the first generation to read -- and to have serious aspirations. Disillusioned by autocratic and corrupt regimes, the new generation increasingly turned to various Islamist groups. The decade was capped by Iran's 1979 revolution, which ended 2,500 years of monarchy and proved that Islam could provide a political alternative.
Deepening turmoil marked the 1980's as proliferating militants launched a wave of jihads. The mujahedeen took on Soviet troops in Afghanistan and Hezbollah emerged in Lebanon to take on Israel and the United States. President Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt was assassinated. Sudan, Africa's largest country, fell to Islamist control. The first Palestinian intifada in 1987 fostered the rise of Hamas and Islamic Jihad. 
But the most noteworthy facet of the decade, Kepel argues, was the struggle between Khomeini's Islamic republic and Saudi Arabia's Islamic monarchy over which Islamist vision prevailed. Indeed, the best part of this section, which covers a lot of well-trodden ground, is the struggle within the Islamic world. 
The second half of "Jihad" offers the more interesting read, however, because it defies conventional wisdom in evaluating the 1990's. The triumph in Afghanistan, when the pro-Communist government collapsed in 1992, dispersed the war-hardened jihadis back to their homes outside Afghanistan -- and beyond. They radicalized Egypt's Islamist movement, which turned to killing foreign tourists, Coptic Christians and others, and they opened a new battlefront in Algeria after a military coup prevented moderate Islamists from claiming electoral victory. The jihadis also popped up in Bosnia, where they tried to make the war against Serbia part of their cause. They even set up shop in New York, where they carried out the first World Trade Center bombing in 1993. 
Yet Bosnia, Algeria and Egypt actually reflect the movement's failure, Kepel argues, because the Islamists miscalculated. The extremist operations carried out by networks "cut off from any social movement and manipulated by obscure forces, had an effect that was the exact reverse of the one their authors probably hoped for," he writes. A fragile alliance between the young urban poor and the devout middle classes was also unable to endure or confront the state, and the movement eventually split. 
In Bosnia, the 2,000 foreign jihadis failed to inspire and the holy war ended with a Pax Americana in 1995. In Algeria, the jihad collapsed into a "blood-drenched nightmare" that lost popular appeal -- leading one faction to declare a unilateral truce in 1997. It was a disaster that put the wider movement on the defensive. In Egypt, the ruthless 1992-97 campaign by a radical Islamist fringe group killed hundreds but was marginalized through repression and pre-empted by market economics. 
And in Iran, the one place where militant Islam prevailed, the zeal for the Islamic Revolution has also petered out. In the 1997 presidential election, vast numbers voted for a reformer who advocated democratizing society and easing rigid restrictions. So between 1995 and 1997, the author concludes, the "high season of jihad" began to draw to a close in many countries. 
"The failure to transplant jihad was an early indication of two entirely new phenomena that characterized political Islam in the 1990's," Kepel writes. "The first was the gradual opening of a gulf between the ideas of Islamist radicals and the needs of ordinary Muslims, in whose eyes utopian ideals were progressively losing their attraction. Second, there began to emerge among those same ordinary Muslims a blueprint for a Muslim democratic society that went beyond the Islamist model. It was suggested that traditional Islamic culture could find a way to allow Muslims to embrace the modern world without betraying themselves." 
By 2000, the transition to a post-Islamist period had already begun, Kepel maintains. It was reflected in elections from Indonesia to Morocco, where revamped Islamist parties increasingly "set aside the sovereignty of God" and ran for office -- whenever allowed. "Many Islamist parties and movements were bent on winning recognition as democrats and on denouncing repression by reference to the universal Western principles of human rights," he says.
Kepel's theory may have seemed more convincing when "Jihad" was first published in France in 2000, well before the Sept. 11 attacks. He has updated it for the English translation and, he contends, the World Trade Center and Pentagon attacks only reinforce his conclusion. Rejecting compromise, Al Qaeda, the organization of Osama bin Laden, and other extremist groups turned to "raw terrorism in its most spectacular and destructive form" to try to revive their cause in a new millennium. Although the remaining cells are still a deadly security threat, Kepel contends that they find it increasingly difficult to inspire or recruit, leaving them farther away from taking power than ever. 
"Jihad" -- a word that actually means "effort" or "struggle" and reflects what all Muslims are supposed to do to observe the faith's values -- is a compelling read that makes an appealing case. It caters to the specialist in its detail and scope, however. And it is weakest in explaining the bigger picture. Kepel writes about Islamist political goals and military tactics, but too little about Islam itself. In the West, Christianity went through a Reformation that paved the way for the Age of Enlightenment and the birth of modern democracy -- a 400-year course that is still not quite complete. Islam is now just beginning to struggle with its own reformation, a process of reinterpreting the Koran and blending religious traditions with modern society. The past quarter century of militancy is a part of this broader process -- a phase of history that is definitely not over.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christoph Niemann) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TRENDS (90%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (89%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); LITERATURE (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: WRIGHT, ROBIN; KEPEL, GILLES 

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (53%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); EGYPT (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

TITLE: JIHAD: THE TRAIL OF POLITICAL ISLAM (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



622 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: New & Noteworthy Paperbacks 

BYLINE:  By Scott Veale

 BODY:
 EMPIRE FALLS, by Richard Russo. (Vintage Contemporaries, $14.95.) A writer whose fiction is grounded in the aches and dreams of bumptious, blue-collar New Englanders sets his new novel (which won a Pulitzer Prize) in a dying mill town in Maine, where a large cast of finely observed characters -- chief among them the likable, if unfulfilled, manager of the Empire Grill -- play out their lives with as much grace and gusto as they can muster. "Russo is brave enough to conceive a large ambition but too smart to overreach," A. O. Scott wrote in the Book Review last year. "His humane sympathy for weakness and self-deception . . . does not rule out stern satiric judgment."

KIKI'S PARIS: Artists and Lovers 1900-1930, by Billy Kluver and Julie Martin. (Abrams, $19.95.) Model, painter, cabaret singer and world-class bon vivant, Kiki was so popular she was elected "Queen of Montparnasse." She also knew everyone in a neighborhood famously crowded with creative spirits, from Picasso to Cocteau. The many photographs in this homage accompany "a carefully researched text that is always amusingly written and bristling with information," Edmund White wrote here in 1989.

COME UP AND SEE ME SOMETIME, by Erika Krouse. (Washington Square/Pocket, $12.) This first story collection is filled with smart, sassy 30-ish women who insist on owning up to their own pain as they grapple mightily with the problem of finding and hanging on to love. Krouse's "arsenal is stocked with . . . potent, original stuff," Maria Russo said in the Book Review in 2001.

A WHALE HUNT: How a Native American Village Did What No One Thought It Could, by Robert Sullivan. (Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $13.) The author recounts his two-year vigil with the Makah Indians of Neah Bay, Wash., as they sought to restore their tribal tradition of hunting the gray whale, a pursuit hampered by animal-rights protesters, internal squabbling and, above all, a lack of know-how (the tribe stopped whaling a generation before). "Sullivan has a very Ishmael-like talent for being both funny and generous," Nathaniel Philbrick wrote here in 2000. In The Eternal Frontier: An Ecological History of North America and Its Peoples, by Tim Flannery (Grove, $16), a Tocqueville of American biogeography bravely tackles the continent's last 65 million years, surveying an evolutionary work in progress in which waves of invaders adapt and become extinct, clearing the way for new immigrant species. Last year in these pages, David Quammen said, "Flannery synthesizes a vast range of scientific studies and a decent selection of historical and cultural writings, leavening those with his own forceful ideas."

IN CUBA I WAS A GERMAN SHEPHERD, by Ana Menendez. (Grove, $12.) A daughter of Cuban exiles explores the interlocking obsessions of two sets of Cubans -- those at home and those in Florida -- whose clashing voices have aged into futility and craziness after 40 years of separation. In 2001 our reviewer, Richard Eder, called these "achingly wise stories about the Cuba in Miami and, in ghostly pentimento, the Miami in Cuba."

NEXT: The Future Just Happened, by Michael Lewis. (Norton, $13.95.) These linked essays argue that the Internet -- far from being a disappointment -- has succeeded in rearranging the fundamental social order through a populist electronic uprising led by young prodigies who are subverting their elders' clunky old regime. "In a tone both ominous and bemused . . . Lewis suggests that they'll soon be running everything," Walter Kirn said here last year. He "writes best when he's personalizing . . . economic change."

O'NEILL: Life With Monte Cristo, by Arthur and Barbara Gelb. (Applause, $24.95.) In the first book of a three-volume rewriting of their 1962 "O'Neill," the authors (Arthur Gelb is a former theater critic and was later managing editor of The Times) re-examine the great American playwright in light of new archival material and insights into his life and work. "Their research and dedication are impressive," Margot Peters wrote in these pages in 2000.

1831: YEAR OF ECLIPSE, by Louis P. Masur. (Hill & Wang, $14.) A solar eclipse was just one of many notable events in America that year: slavery, abolitionism, Indian rights and religious revivalism were among the major moral and political issues at center stage. This novel "gives insight into the character of the United States and . . . entertains with the stories it provides," David Traxel said here last year. Scott Veale

CORRECTION-DATE: May 26, 2002

 CORRECTION:
The New & Noteworthy Paperbacks column on Page 20 of the Book Review today refers incorrectly to "1831: Year of Eclipse," by Louis P. Masur. It is nonfiction, not a novel.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Dan Deitch; J. D. Sloan) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (89%); WHALING (86%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (71%); DOGS (69%); NATIVE AMERICANS (68%); GEOGRAPHY (64%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (63%); SCIENCE NEWS (60%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (56%) NORTHEAST USA (90%) UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (56%); CUBA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



623 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 4; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Travel Advisory; 
Deals and Discounts

BYLINE:  By Joseph Siano 

 BODY:
 BY A LAKE IN TEXAS: The 40-room Lake Austin Spa Resort, about a half-hour outside Austin, Tex., in the Hill Country, is offering extra nights at no extra charge through Sept. 30. A three-night Refresher Package gets a fourth night; prices are $1,280 or $1,440 a person, double occupancy, based on room choice. There are two extra nights added on a four-night package, at $1,580 or $1,790, per person. And for one-week stays, three more nights are included; $2,590 or $2,990. Each extra night includes three meals, fitness classes and other activities; (800) 847-5637 or www.lakeaustin.com. Subject to availability.

LINGER IN ROME: The Cavalieri Hilton, on 15 acres near the Vatican, will add extra nights for multi-night stays through Sept. 15. Pay for three nights and get four. A five-night stay earns two more nights. And for the cost of a one-week stay, you get 10 nights. Doubles start at $348 a night, with V.A.T. and buffet breakfast, at 1.12 euros to the dollar. The 372-room hotel has an indoor and outdoor pool and a spa. Children 12 and under stay free in the same room as their parents and get a Teddy bear and rubber duck; they can also visit the hotel's Montgelana hens, which lay low-cholesterol green eggs. Rates, like the eggs, are subject to availability. Call (39-06) 35091 or visit www.cavalieri-hilton.it.

LOWER MANHATTAN REVIVAL: The area around ground zero continues its economic rebirth. The 463-unit Embassy Suites, across from the World Financial Center, reopened this month after being extensively refurbished since Sept. 11. Besides Hudson River views and a 15-story atrium, each two-room suite has Web TV. The reopening rates, which start at $249 weekdays and $159 weekends, include a daily breakfast and manager's reception. The hotel is adjacent to a 16-screen movie theater. Call (800) 362-2779 or visit www.embassysuites.com.

VERMONT RETREAT: Through Sept. 12, the 15-room Three Mountain Inn, in Jamaica in south-central Vermont about 30 miles east of Manchester, is taking 20 percent off two- and three-night packages. The two-night plan, starting at $395 a couple (up to $595 for a suite), includes daily breakfast, a dinner for two, afternoon snacks and all taxes and tips. A third night (with another dinner) is $195 regardless of room choice. The inn, in a building dating from 1791, was renovated three years ago and has a pool; (800) 532-9399 or www.threemountaininn.com.

TEE TIME: Book online at any Wyndham resort by the end of this month, at www.wyndham.com, and receive a coupon good for a round of golf during a future two-night stay at one of eight Wyndham resorts, including the Carmel Valley Ranch in Carmel, Calif., and the Boulders in Carefree, Ariz. The coupon is valid through April 15, 2003; a cart is extra. Other restrictions apply. JOSEPH SIANO

GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); RESORTS (89%); TOUR PACKAGES (89%); INTERNET VIDEO (74%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (70%); RELIGION (68%); BUILDING RENOVATION (68%); VALUE ADDED TAX (67%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (62%); CHOLESTEROL (51%); MOVIE THEATERS (50%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; DISCOUNT SELLING 

COMPANY: A MANZONI & C SPA (68%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (68%)

PERSON: SIANO, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (58%); ROME, ITALY (56%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (51%) TEXAS, USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAMAICA (79%); HOLY SEE (78%); ITALY (56%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



624 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Travel Advisory: Correspondent's Report; 
Car-Rental Rates Low As Bookings Creep Up

BYLINE:  By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
THE sharp drop in auto rentals immediately after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks was not as well known to the public as the battering suffered by airlines and hotels, but its effect was about as bad.
 In the week after the attacks, bookings at a number of rental car companies plunged by 50 percent, primarily because more than two-thirds of cars are rented at airports, and travelers were shunning airports and airplanes. Profits of the Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group, which owns Dollar Rent a Car Systems and Thrifty Inc., fell 83 percent in the third quarter of 2001. In the same quarter, ANC Rental Corporation, the owner of Alamo Rent a Car and National Car Rental, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, citing a drop in business. 
 The paucity of bookings led most of the major rental car companies -- whose rentals and revenues were softening even before Sept. 11 because of the weak economy -- to lay off as much as 20 percent of their staff and reduce the number of cars in their fleets by an average of 30 percent.
For car renters, this added up to confusion and inconvenience, which still has not been straightened out. The reduction in rental cars has meant that customers who try to book at the last minute may wind up not only without the car of their choice, but without a car altogether.
For now, though, there are signs that rental car bookings are slowly creeping upward, as corporate and leisure travel pick up. On April 18, Dollar Thrifty reported a 31.7 percent increase in first-quarter net income over the same period last year. And a survey in March of 200 corporate travel managers, conducted by the National Business Travel Association in Alexandria, Va., found that 65 percent of the managers said they had seen demand for travel increase by up to 10 percent since January, while a large majority of managers expected business travel to recover within the next 12 months.
There are still solid bargains to be had for car rentals, according to William A. Maloney, the chief operating officer of the American Society of Travel Agents. He said that many good deals were available "whether you rent for a day, a few days or a week."
Many bargains can be found on the Web sites of the rental car companies, in travel sections of newspapers, on Internet sites such as Yahoo, Expedia, Orbitz, Priceline and Travelocity, and from airline frequent flier programs. Continental Airlines, for example, is offering members of its One Pass program discounts through June on Alamo, Avis and Hertz rental cars, including free days, double upgrades or double miles.
In addition, where rental cars are readily available there are more models to select from, including minivans, S.U.V.'s and convertibles, as well as the traditional models.
Bob Briggs, the executive vice president of business development and marketing for Carlson Wagonlit Travel in North America, said that all travel companies are struggling and as a result, "Everybody's looking for more business, and the way to get it is by price." And now that it is spring, he said, the best prices are to be found in such warm weather destinations as Florida, Arizona, Las Vegas and Southern California.
In its annual review of the rental-car industry published last month, Consumer Reports said there were signs that rates had begun climbing in recent months. But it found that so far this year the average cost of a three-day rental was down about 10 percent from last year -- to $100.56 from $112.26.
Of the eight rental car companies surveyed in 11 large United States and Canadian cities, from Atlanta to Toronto to Washington, Dollar's three-day rate of $85.59 was lowest, while Hertz's three-day rate at the same locations was highest, at $113.21 (not including taxes or fees).
When it comes to rental cars, there are few if any tax havens, but renters tired of the same old thing can find a variety of unusual choices, although not in great numbers or in many locations.
For example, in Santa Monica, Calif., Global Electric Motorcars, a DaimlerChrysler company, and EV Rental Cars have teamed up to rent two- and four-passenger GEMs, electrical vehicles designed for short trips. They are charged by plugging into a household outlet. The introductory rate is $25 for one hour, $45 for two hours and $80 a day.
Budget Rent a Car of Beverly Hills, whose 2,000-car fleet consists of more than 80 models, is renting Bentley Azures for $1,800 a day. The company recently added 20 BMW Mini Coopers at its offices in and around Los Angeles. The car will rent for $125 a day. Or, as the company puts it, "for just $125 a day." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (91%); AIRLINES (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (89%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (89%); TRAVEL AGENTS (89%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); LAYOFFS (72%); LEISURE TRAVEL (71%); LOYALTY MARKETING (71%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (64%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (54%) AUTOMOBILES; RENTING AND LEASING 

COMPANY: HERTZ GLOBAL HOLDINGS INC (84%); CARLSON WAGONLIT TRAVEL INC (84%); ANC RENTAL CORP (71%); THRIFTY INC (71%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); DOLLAR RENT A CAR SYSTEMS INC (57%); DOLLAR THRIFTY AUTOMOTIVE GROUP INC (57%); JONES MOTORCARS INC (56%); ORBITZ WORLDWIDE INC (51%)

TICKER: HTZ (NYSE) (84%); UAL (NYSE) (58%); OWW (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (84%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (84%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (84%); NAICS532412 CONSTRUCTION, MINING & FORESTRY MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (84%); SIC7353 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (84%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (84%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS533110 LESSORS OF NONFINANCIAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS (EXCEPT COPYRIGHTED WORKS) (57%); SIC6794 PATENT OWNERS & LESSORS (57%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



625 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 4; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: The Trials of Job Hunting Beyond a Certain Size 

BYLINE:  By MELINDA LIGOS 

 BODY:
When 390-pound Robert Diaz goes on a job interview, he goes to almost desperate lengths to appear smaller.
 When he's waiting in the reception area, he tries to cover his belly with his portfolio. When he is walking into an interview, he treads delicately, almost tiptoeing through the office. And when he sits down in front of his prospective boss's desk, he never plops down in his chair, he eases himself into it. 
 Still, nothing can really hide his frame, and few hiring managers, if any, can get past it. 
"Usually, the interview is over almost as soon as they see me," says Mr. Diaz, a resident of Flushing, Queens, who has been looking for a job as a law librarian since last fall after spending the last 10 years in business for himself as a math tutor. When he left his last professional position at a law firm in 1992, he weighed only 270 pounds. Now, he says, as soon as he walks in the door for an interview, he gets the same reaction from employers.
"Their eyes immediately dart down to my belly," he says. "Then, there's a brief look of shock. And then they want to get me out of their office as quickly as possible."
Discrimination against overweight workers is nothing new. In fact, employment lawyers say it has been on the rise since the economy tightened. "In this job market, anything considered to be a flaw, including obesity, is going to be a drawback," said Richard S. Corenthal, a lawyer with Meyer, Suozzi, English & Klein in Mineola, N.Y.
Still, even as people like Mr. Diaz struggle to get a job, obese workers are slowly gaining protection against discrimination under many states' disability laws.
In April of this year, the New Jersey Supreme Court ruled that so-called morbid obesity -- defined as obesity which causes other medical problems like arthritis, asthma and others -- is a handicap that may be protected under the state's antidiscrimination laws. In that case, Regina A. Viscik, a woman who weighed more than 400 pounds, was fired after just four days on the job as an assistant for the Fowler Equipment Company in 1988.
Part of Ms. Viscik's job was to travel back and forth many times to a fax machine, a task made difficult because of arthritis and other conditions brought on by her weight, according to her lawyer, Christopher Kelly, a partner at the Reppert, Kelly law firm in Westfield, N.J.
After four days, "Her boss basically said, 'I'm sorry, but we need someone who can move around a little quicker,' " Mr. Kelly said. A spokesman for Fowler said Ms. Viscik was fired for making too many personal phone calls.
Mr. Kelly heralds the ruling as a victory for those whose obesity leads to physical handicaps. Other states have adopted even more liberal laws relating to discrimination against overweight people.
Four jurisdictions in the country -- San Francisco; Santa Cruz, Calif.; Michigan and the District of Columbia -- have all adopted weight-based discrimination laws. San Francisco's was recently tested when Jennifer Portnick, a 240-pound aerobics instructor, filed a complaint with the city's Human Rights Commission last September contending that she was rejected for a job with Jazzercise Inc. because of her size. The case was recently settled, and Jazzercise says it will no longer require prospective instructors to appear svelte as long as they are in good shape.
New York's human rights laws recognize obesity as a disability and forbid most employers to discriminate against such workers, according to Mr. Corenthal.
Adoptions of such laws are indications that discrimination against overweight job seekers may soon become as taboo as sexual or racial discrimination, says Josephine Tucker, co-chairwoman of the employment law division of Morrison & Foerster, a law firm with offices in Irvine, Calif.
"If you've just put on a few extra pounds, you're still not going to be protected," Ms. Tucker said. "But if you're truly obese, you may be." As more states adopt such laws, Ms. Tucker says, prospective employers may become more wary of making comments to job seekers about their weight, even in a joking manner.
"Employers know that they can't make a racist joke to a job seeker, or question whether their sex will prevent them from doing a job," Ms. Tucker says. "But many don't realize yet that they can't say to a fat person, 'Are you going to be able to do the job quickly enough?' "
Such quips still abound in the workplace, regardless of the antidiscrimination laws in place in many states, says Dr. Kelli Friedman, a research associate at Structure House, a residential weight-loss center in Durham, N.C. In a study of its patients conducted last July, 25 percent said they felt they were not hired for a job because of their weight. Others complained of being passed up for promotions or receiving bad assignments.
Such discrimination often stems from the common myths that overweight people are slower or less motivated than their slimmer counterparts, says Jeffrey E. Christian, chief executive of Christian & Timbers Inc., a Cleveland recruiting firm with offices in New York. Mr. Christian often coaches obese job seekers to address an employer's concerns directly. "I tell them to say something like, 'As you can see, I'm a big woman, and some people may not think I can get as much work done as others. As a result, I've had to work harder than everyone else.' "
"Get that issue off the table quickly so that the employer can remember something else about the interview besides the fact that you're overweight," Mr. Christian advises.
But tactics like these may not be enough to sway some employers. In one recent interview for a librarian position at a publishing firm, Mr. Diaz says his interviewer asked him to follow him to an office down the hall, but kept turning around and looking worriedly at Mr. Diaz as they walked. "He was kind of mumbling to himself, and I could tell he was very concerned about something," Mr. Diaz said. As soon as they got to the man's office, Mr. Diaz realized what the problem was.
"His office was decorated in a Japanese motif, and he had these really small black-lacquer chairs," he said. Mr. Diaz was about to sit down, when the man asked him if he would mind standing throughout the interview. "He told me the chairs were too delicate," Mr. Diaz says. The interview lasted only five minutes, and both men knew that Mr. Diaz would not be back for a second. "He just seemed disgusted at having to even speak to me," Mr. Diaz said.
At another recent interview at an insurance company, Mr. Diaz says, a prospective employer explained that some employees took a half-hour for lunches, while others opted to take an hour, and joked, "You look like an hour-lunch guy."
"I had to laugh along with her, because I wanted to appear agreeable," he says. But he admits that the comments still stung. "I'm trying to develop a tough shell, or I'm going to have my feelings hurt all the time."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Diaz, a former law librarian, must contend with responses to his weight. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); LAWYERS (89%); OBESITY (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (88%); DISABLED PERSONS (86%); LAW LIBRARIES (74%); LITIGATION (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (72%); OBESITY RELATED DISEASES (70%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (64%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (64%) LABOR; WEIGHT; OBESITY; DISCRIMINATION 

COMPANY: MEYER SUOZZI ENGLISH & KLEIN PC (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (66%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (66%)

PERSON: LIGOS, MELINDA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



626 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Dining Out; 
Feasts for the Mind as Well as for the Body

BYLINE:  By PATRICIA BROOKS 

 BODY:
FEEDING the body as well as the intellect might well be the goal of bookshops that incorporate cafes in their premises. There aren't enough in Connecticut to be called a trend. Even so, bibliophiles are happy to have these treasured few.
 Of all the bookstore cafes, the Traveler restaurant is the most unusual. In a free-standing building on a hilly bank just off I-84, near the Massachusetts line, this is a real dining room, seating 126 people, with a full-fledged kitchen that serves breakfast, lunch and dinner. Down a short flight of stairs in the cellar is a bona fide second-hand bookstore (which is also reachable directly from the parking lot, at ground level), whose old books are arranged by categories like a library. 
 But the restaurant dominates. Surrounding the numerous tables and booths are overflowing bookcases. The minute my companion and I sat down on the glassed-in porch, a smiling waitress told us we could help ourselves to a free book apiece. "If you come on Wednesday, you can have three books and two free ones on Saturday." Later, in speaking by phone to Art Murdock, the owner, I learned that the Traveler gives away 100,000 books a year, many of which they acquire from library sales. 
After placing our order, we browsed among dozens of books in every imaginable category, including encyclopedias and Reader's Digest anthologies. By the time our lunch arrived, we had chosen our treasures, a Russell Baker memoir and a Spanish novel we had once owned, but misplaced years ago. As a starter, we shared Cheddar hot bites (explosive jalapeno peppers in beer batter stuffed with Wisconsin Cheddar), served with a salsa dip -- a delight at $5.29. While lunching, we enjoyed the pastoral view of a grassy hillside, "patrolled" by an enormous wooden moose (the work, we were told, of John Bash, an Ellington sculptor) and a small pond beyond. 
There's nothing fancy about Traveler's decor, with its rustic knotty pine walls, nor its food. Our brief sampling of the sizable, economically priced menu included fried clam strips, which had scant flavor but came with freshly made cole slaw and a mountain of delicious French fries for $8.99. A packed lobster roll made a fine lunch, but we should have skipped the commercial-tasting strawberry-rhubarb pie. There is a limited wine and beer selection. 
Credit cards accepted. Hours: 7 a.m.-8 p.m. daily. Route 84, exit 74, Union. (860) 684-4920.
I was much taken by the jaunty air of the R. J. Cafe, tucked into the rear of R. J. Julia Booksellers on Madison's main street. A separate business, the cafe is owned and run by Nancy's Coffee Cafe, with its own patio and parking lot. The widely known bookshop stages many events, with celebrity authors like Anne Rice and Garrison Keillor, many of whom pop into the cafe for coffee or a snack after their signings (so I was told) -- a bonus that cafe patrons seem to enjoy. 
There are just seven tables inside, another six on the patio, so I felt lucky on a recent visit to snare a table with a window seat, covered with cushions, by a bowed window. 
Soups are a specialty (cream of mushroom and curry pumpkin bisque were especially winning), as are the daily quiches. I was partial also to the lemon basil chicken salad sandwich and grilled balsamic chicken sandwich. For $6.49 you can get a huge bowl of soup and a hearty half sandwich. The lemon and poppy seed pound cakes, among many choices, were both excellent. 
No alcoholic beverages are served, but patrons are permitted to bring their own.
Credit cards accepted. Hours: 8 a.m.-9 p.m. Monday through Thursday, 8 a.m.-10 p.m. Friday and Saturday, 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Sunday. 768 Boston Post Road, Madison. (203) 318-0706.
Atticus Cafe seems to gobble up more and more space in the busy, popular Attucus Bookstore in New Haven. The cafe began 25 years ago with a couple of tables, a counter and display cases at the edge of the shop. Now there are 18 tables for two, plus two large tables for groups. 
Its own bakery, Chabaso, supplies the delicious muffins, scones, sweet rolls, breads and desserts to this bustling cafe. Soups and sandwiches are the mainstay here, and I recently savored a robust white bean and vegetable soup and a cup of real Rhode Island clam chowder, full of clams and vegetables. A good deal is the $6.95 tab for a cup of soup and half sandwich. Mine was ham and melted Cheddar on excellent focaccia; the half was enormous.
No alcoholic beverages are served. Credit cards accepted. Hours: 8 a.m.-midnight daily. 1082 Chapel Street, New Haven. (203) 776-4040.
Someone has a sense of humor at the Book Trader Cafe, in a used bookstore near the Yale campus. Its many blackboard-listed sandwiches include a Tom Soy-er (vegetarian), Jane Rare (roast beef with goat cheese), Vonegut veggie, Ham-ingway (ham and cheese) and Tale of Two Turkeys (two types of turkey sandwiches). Most everything is made on the premises, including the chutneys and most baked goods. The somewhat cramped quarters are relieved by a glass-enclosed atrium with tables. In warm weather, there is an open-air area as well. 
No alcoholic beverages are served. Credit cards accepted on orders over $10. Hours: 7:30 a.m.-9 p.m. Monday through Wednesday, 7:30 a.m.-11 p.m. Thursday through Saturday, 10 a.m.-9 p.m. Sunday. 1140 Chapel Street, New Haven. (203) 787-6147. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); LITERATURE (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); TRENDS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (74%); MENU PRICES (73%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (72%); SCULPTURE (71%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); BEER & ALE (68%); VISUAL ARTISTS (66%) RESTAURANTS; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: READER'S DIGEST PTY LTD (54%)

ORGANIZATION: TRAVELER (UNION, CONN, RESTAURANT); R J CAFE (MADISON, CONN); ATTICUS CAFE (NEW HAVEN, CONN); BOOK TRADER CAFE (NEW HAVEN, CONN) 

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

PERSON: BROOKS, PATRICIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); WISCONSIN, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



627 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: Postings: A Gallery, a Foundation and a Partnership, for West 13th Street Building; 
Purchasing and Sharing

BYLINE:  By Edwin McDowell 

 BODY:
Two years ago, when a partnership of three Manhattan developers offered to buy the three-story building at 415 West 13th Street, between Ninth Avenue and Washington Street, it found that the Sperrone Westwater Gallery in SoHo also had its eyes on the building. So did the Bohen Foundation in Manhattan, which supports the arts.
 But rather than bid up the price, the competitors decided to join forces to buy the 45,000-square-foot building, which runs through the block between 13th and 14th Streets. Bohen, which is in SoHo, bought the first floor and a third of the basement, and the gallery, on Greene Street, bought the second floor and another third of the basement. 
 The development partnership acquired the third floor, the remainder of the basement and the right to use the excess air rights and construct an additional five floors. It also agreed to build new entrances and new stairways and to install new elevators and heating and cooling systems. The partnership, of William Schaffel, Charles Blaichman and Phillip Katz, is acting as the building's developer.
The cost of the building and of redevelopment, scheduled for completion this fall, will total about $20 million. The developers plan to convert their portion of the building into a commercial condominium and to add the five floors atop the half of the building that faces 13th Street, which will almost double the square footage of the existing structure. Because a concrete sheer wall was required for structural reasons, it will now serve as a dividing line between what will become two buildings -- one fronting on 415 West 13th Street, the other on 412 West 14th Street.
In buying 415 West 13th Street, the purchasers agreed that after their renovations, they would sell the building facing 14th Street back to the original building's former owner, Sam Chen, the founder of Expedi Printing, who moved his company last year to Brooklyn. Mr. Katz said that the developers are now negotiating to retain and then renovate the 14th Street building.
Steven Kratchman, the architect for the buildings, said that the addition of the five floors required reinforcing the existing columns, expanding the foundation footings and using lightweight metal panels on the upper floors to reduce the new loads. 
The new floors will be clad in black glazed brick and black enameled lightweight aluminum panels, instead of the original yellow brick, to make a clean break between the new and the older floors.
The Sinvin Realty Corporation, which will seek tenants or buyers for Floors 3 through 8, expects annual rents to be $38 to $48 a square foot. EDWIN McDOWELL

CORRECTION-DATE: June 2, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A report in the Postings column last Sunday about the expansion of a building that runs between West 13th and 14th Streets in Manhattan omitted the name of the design architect. It is Selldorf Architects; Steven Kratchman was the architect of record.




GRAPHIC: Photo: Five floors are to be added atop 415 West 13th. (Robert Stava) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); HVAC SYSTEMS (67%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION 

ORGANIZATION: SPERRONE WESTWATER GALLERY; BOHEN FOUNDATION 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN; SCHAFFEL, WILLIAM; BLAICHMAN, CHARLES; KATZ, PHILLIP 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



628 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: School Budget Votes: More F's Than Usual 

BYLINE:  By LINDA SASLOW 

 BODY:
FACING proposed tax rate increases that averaged nearly 10 percent, Long Islanders rejected 20 of 126 school budgets on Tuesday, the highest failure rate since statewide same-day school district voting started seven years ago.
 Much of the voter reluctance was traced to the Island's economic slowdown. But taxpayer nervousness over a reassessment of county taxes due next year was not the torpedo that many educators had expected in Nassau County, where school budgets fared better than in Suffolk. Of 56 Nassau districts, only 5 budgets were defeated, in Bethpage, Farmingdale, Herricks, Lawrence and Plainedge. Voters approved double-digit school tax increases in Elmont, Freeport, Garden City, Roslyn and Jericho. Roosevelt, where a new state takeover was completed this month, passed a school budget increase of 18 percent, but carrying a tax increase of only 5.4 percent thanks to an infusion of money from the state. 
 In Suffolk County, budgets were rejected in 15 of the 70 districts, including the Island's two largest districts: Sachem and Brentwood.
"Everyone suspected that this would be a more difficult year," said Richard Hawkins, president of the Suffolk County Council of Superintendents. "After 30 percent of the school budgets were defeated in New Jersey, we were prepared for the worst. On the heels of Sept. 11, with New York State's tenuous fiscal position and the high costs of unfunded mandates, the implementation of the higher standards and increasing student enrollments, we all knew that these were difficult times."
Budgets carrying double-digit tax increases were defeated in the Three Village school district in Setauket and in all three Eastport-South Manor districts -- two K-6 districts and one high school district. Also defeated were budgets in Central Islip, Connetquot, Fishers Island, Hampton Bays, Harborfields, Riverhead, Smithtown and Wyandanch. All will have a second, final chance to resubmit budgets, with or without revisions. 
Sachem's budgets have been rejected three times in two years. Last year, when the budget was voted down twice, the district was forced by law to adopt an austerity budget that eliminated all spending for improving school buildings and purchasing instructional and non-instructional equipment. The district has to decide whether to re-submit its 2002-2003 budget or remain on austerity.
"Being on austerity is a silent killer," the Sachem superintendent, James Ruck, said. "After 2000, when our voters approved a $228 million bond for reconfiguration of the district, they voted down last year's budget because they thought they had given us enough for the capital project. This year, many voters didn't understand that 40 percent of the increase in the budget was for the debt service on the project that they had already approved."
School districts had to notify voters by April 29 of their proposed budgets and proposed tax increases, but state aid packages were not announced until five days before Tuesday's voting. For many districts, the news that Albany had agreed to boost school aid statewide by $420 million, including $73 million for Long Island schools, came too late to make a difference.
John Sonedecker, the Three Village superintendent, said that although the additional $1 million in state aid pegged for his district would have meant a tax rate reduction of one percent, it was announced too late to make a difference at the polls.
"We did an exit survey as voters left the polls," he said. "We found that the community thought it was a good budget, but they didn't think they could afford it."
For Rocky Point, however, getting the word out was a good move. Following the news that the district would be getting more state aid than had been proposed, a tax increase of 33 percent dropped to 12.1 percent.. Late last week, the district did a mass mailing to the community, sent fliers home with every student and initiated a phone campaign. The effort paid off, Superintendent James Gerardi said, when the budget passed.
In Nassau, school districts whose budgets failed were not those with the highest tax increases. Herricks voters rejected a proposed tax increase of 8.8 percent. By contrast, in Hewlett-Woodmere, one of the county's wealthier districts, voters passed a budget with a tax increase of 13 percent, while voters in Freeport, one of the county's poorer districts, said yes to a school budget with a tax increase of 17.9 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (96%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX INCREASES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); SCHOOL BONDS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (84%)

PERSON: SASLOW, LINDA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) LONG ISLAND (NY)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



629 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: A Little More Money for Farmers Who Put Milk on the Table 

BYLINE:  By HARLAN J. LEVY 

 BODY:
MAVIS COLLINS, an Enfield dairy farmer, has been in love with cows and the farming life for most of her 55 years. But lately, running the Powder Hill Farm, an average-size Connecticut farm with 85 cows on 240 acres, has been a bittersweet money-losing experience.
 Mavis and her husband, Jack Collins, inheritor of the 125-year-old family heirloom, have had to take out bank loans since 1995 to survive. Then in September, things got worse with the end of federal price supports that had kept losses at manageable levels. The family had to "think seriously about whether milking cows was going to be possible any more," Ms. Collins said sadly. "We're cash-poor, and we live from check to check." 
 A third-generation dairyman, Peter Charter, has had the same experience with his 60 milking cows on 130 acres in rural Ellington. He and his wife, Verna, say they need to sell gravel and lumber to "keep from having to sell the farm."
But help arrived on May 13 when President Bush signed a 10-year $190 billion farm subsidy bill. It includes a new three-year $1.3 billion milk price-support program. On June 1, the guarantee price minimum will be $1.46 a gallon, 33 cents more than what farmers currently get under the market price set monthly by the United States Department of Agriculture. The new amount is still about a nickel less than the average farmer's production cost for a gallon of milk. 
The market price, which is supposed to reflect true market conditions, has been fluctuating between $1.12 and $1.16 a gallon in the Northeast district over the last few months.
Under the new law's formula, dairy farmers will not get the full difference between the market price and the artificially set $1.46 minimum, but rather 45 percent of that difference. For example the farmer would receive the market price plus about 15 cents (which is 45 percent of the difference between the market price and the minimum). That's better than the former program, the five-year-long Northeast Dairy Compact, which also set the minimum price at $1.46 per gallon, but only for milk that consumers drink. It did not include milk used for ice cream, cheese, cottage cheese, and powdered milk, which all are, on average, 45 percent of most farms' production. 
Meanwhile, the farmers were getting only about $1 a gallon for the milk that went into those products while their cost remained the same as for the milk sold for drinking. The new program maintains the minimum for all classes of milk.
But milk prices won't be going up, state Agriculture Commissioner Shirley Ferris said. Under the new law, consumers will not have to directly pay 2 to 3 cents per gallon to help meet the price guarantee, as they did under the Northeast Dairy Compact. The U.S.D.A. will pay the tab, Ms. Ferris said, "and I don't have a problem with that. I relate this to the minimum wage law."
"We definitely need it," Ms. Collins said. "No matter which farmer you speak to these days, it's very rare that the milk check can cover all of our bills each month just to keep the farm running and not our personal bills."
Milk prices have been "so bad," Mr. Charter said, "that we're netting what we got in the 1970's. In New England we have to go out and look for other sources of money to keep the door open."
To break even, dairy farmers need about $1.50 a gallon, said Gabe Moquin, State Agriculture deputy director. The new price support program will help, he said. 
Five years ago, Connecticut had 270 dairy farmers. Today there are 215, and the average age of those farmers is 55 to 60. The state has been losing dairy farmers at a rate of 10 percent a year. "Without the new program," Mr. Moquin said, "we would probably double the number going out of business to 20 percent a year. So it'll encourage farmers to remain in business," fighting the trend of ever-larger farms near metropolitan areas dominating their markets.
It's important that the state maintains its dairy farms, Ms. Ferris said. "We could never exist with just a few large farms close to the city," she added. "They couldn't meet the demand, and the small farmers out in the hinterlands would get socked with transportation expenses that they could not pass on to the consumer" because of the low federally set market prices. 
"That would mean less fresh milk in the state," Ms. Ferris said, "and that's why the federal government regulates milk." 
As Ms. Collins sees it, she and her fellow dairy farmers need to supplement their income with other products to survive. The Collinses' son-in-law, Anthony Bellafronte, runs an ice cream shop on the farm -- with 30 flavors -- from March through October. The family has an active compost business as well. 
The Collinses' 22-year-old son, John, wants to continue in the family business, Ms. Collins said, and their 25-year-old daughter, Tracey, hopes to open a vegetable stand later this year. "The new farm bill gives my son more encouragement to keep farming," Ms. Collins said, "but if it doesn't continue, he would seriously have to find work off the farm, and we would have to eliminate some of our helpers."
When the Northeast Milk Compact expired in September, Ms. Collins said, dairy farmers immediately began to lag on bill payments. "Now it will take a while to catch up to compensate for the loss," she said.
The new law stabilizes the milk price for dairy farmers, Mr. Moquin said. 
"It takes out some of the peaks and valleys of pricing milk to the consumer, who ought to be able to expect a fairly level price in the supermarket," he said.
Still, farmers are giving up, Mr. Moquin said, due to the rising cost of land, capital improvements, labor, insurance, grain to feed the cows, taxes, and services.
But the Collinses and Charters say they won't quit. 
"Everybody does various things to keep from selling the farm," Mr. Charter said. 
Ms. Collins says she has dairy farming in her blood. She was raised on an English dairy farm and graduated from an agricultural college west of London before taking a long holiday in Connecticut. Her temporary work on the Collins farm turned permanent when she married into the family.
"When the boss couldn't pay me any more, he let me marry his son," she joked. 
"It's a good life, and I wouldn't choose any other life. And if we have to work seven days a week, we will, because we really don't mind, as long as we can keep those bills paid up," she said.
Consumers get much more than just readily available fresh milk, Ms. Ferris said. "In this state, probably 60 to 70 percent of the working landscape is utilized by dairy farmers. They're good for the economy. They're good for tourism, and they're good for the environment."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mavis and Jack Collins, left, run the Powder Hill Farm in Enfield. They got help when President Bush signed a 10-year $190 billion farm subsidy bill. "It's very rare that the milk check can cover all of our bills each month," Ms. Collins said. (Photographs by C. M. Glover for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAIRY FARMING (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); FOOD PRICES (89%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (89%); MILK (89%); AGRICULTURE (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (78%); ICE CREAM (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%) DAIRY PRODUCTS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (54%)

PERSON: LEVY, HARLAN J 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



630 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEWS; 
Drills and Blowdryers Rendered as Still Lifes

BYLINE:  By D. Dominick Lombardi 

 BODY:
 "The Spring Show"
Main Street Gallery, 26 Main Street, Dobbs Ferry, through June 2. (914) 674-9171.
 Main Street Gallery is a commercial gallery that normally features the work of artists from New York City, Connecticut, upstate New York and Westchester County.
For this exhibit, the gallery's director, Peggie Blizard, and her husband, Larry, are showing their own paintings and drawings separately in each of the gallery's two main rooms.
Ms. Blizard said her husband was "fascinated with chaos," a fact that is abundantly clear when viewing his work. What matters most here, is what Mr. Blizard sees in chaos.
In his drawings, not so innocent angels frolic and romp through otherwise benign real-life situations causing havoc that largely goes unnoticed. 
One of the winged pranksters gets caught in the act, however, in "The Dormer Window" (2000).
His paintings are airy and loosely rendered, and viewers should have fun trying to decipher the complex narrative aspect of his work.
Ms. Blizard's paintings are far more focused and realistic. She paints still lifes, selecting power tools and other small appliances like blow dryers as her subjects. 
Sometimes, like in "Power Drill" (2001), she adds a highly textured, monochrome background that nicely contrasts the precision used to render her subjects.

"Inaugural Exhibition"
The Studio, 2 Maryland Avenue, Armonk through July 27. (914) 273-1452.
For the inaugural show in their new space, Tedd and Katie Stratis selected more than 60 works of art from 23 regional artists. The Studio is both an indoor gallery space and a sculpture garden, which allows them to display large, outdoor sculptures as well as small works on paper.
J. Pindyck Miller's "Hawaiian Holiday" (1980's) is this exhibition's most impressive outdoor piece. It is painted yellow, which gives it far greater presence than its 5 1/2-by-12-foot mass would normally command. Add to this its elegant voids and strong shadows, and one is left with the suggestion of depth and perspective that is normally encountered in representational painting.
In the indoor space, Mr. Pindyck Miller has two mixed media works titled "Wooster Collage No. 9 -- Fleurs d'Hiver" and "Wooster Collage No. 10 -- Smoke" (both 2001). 
The eroded surfaces of the paper used to create these collages has the look of decollage, which is a reductive process of tearing into existing layers of posted theater bills.
The minimization of elements in these two works are reminiscent of Robert Motherwell's collages.
Adrienne Cullom's "Mask for Celebrating Magnificent Traditions" (2001) is a soft, mask-like sculpture made of knotted fiber. Visitors should find this work to be one of her most interesting, since it is the most abstract of the three. On the other hand, Ms. Cullom's "Orchestration of Lines" (1998) is less successful and far too derivative of Frank Stella's cigar smoke prints. 
Joyce Wenglowski's "Between Places" (2000) depicts an empty subway station. The expressive painting style, the intense contrast of the cool grays against the stark yellows, and the exaggerated way in which she indicates perspective brings to mind this underground experience.

"Rough/Havana/Refined"
Henaine Fine Art, 6 North Pearl Street, 404-F, Port Chester, through June 12. (914) 939-5334.
Leslie Long loves tropical places. As a photographer, this Westchester resident is looking for special cultural experiences and has apparently found one in Havana. 
Her show at Henaine Fine Art reveals the almost surreal quality of a crumbling city of Havana that, despite its economic woes, is rich in culture and life. 
For this exhibition, Ms. Long offers 17 black and white archival gelatin silver prints all taken in Havana, in March 2001.
Photographs like "Celebrating" and "Twirling" show a city in disrepair; still functioning and driven by an undying human spirit. 
"Railing" shows that a decayed stairwell can be beautiful and poetic if one takes the time to look. "Drinking" portrays a newly emptied daiquiri glass against a shimmering field of soft highlights that form a fluid composition not unlike a predawn, artificially illuminated rainy city street.
This contrast between the clarity of the foreground and the blurry background can be seen again in the aforementioned "Celebrating," whereas the opposite occurs in works like "Cruise Ship: Leaving" and "Preening" where the foreground fades and the background comes into focus giving the work a political, albeit tentative undertone.
The angle or vantage point of the photographer's lens in works like "Floating" and "Resting" adds a voyeuristic quality while "Whispering," which depicts a young man peering through an open doorway into a classroom almost seems awkward, even intrusive.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Resting," left, by Leslie Long is in "Rough/Havana/Refined," an exhibition at Henaine Fine Art in Port Chester.; Detail of J. Pindyck Miller's "Hawaiian Holiday," above, part of the "Inaugural Exhibition," an exhibition at the Studio in Armonk.; Detail of "Still Life With Pink Boxes," below, by Peggie Blizard, which is part of "The Spring Show" at Main Street Gallery in Dobbs Ferry. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (78%); HAND & POWER TOOLS (71%); POWER TOOLS (71%) ART; REVIEWS; PHOTOGRAPHY 

PERSON: LOMBARDI, D DOMINICK; GLIZARD, PEGGIE; GLIZARD, LARRY; LONG, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



631 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2577 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Foreclose on Foreclosure 

BYLINE:  By JAY ROMANO 

 BODY:
THURSDAYS can be busy days for Joseph Bonner. 
 Two Thursdays ago, for example, Mr. Bonner sold 20 properties in Hudson County, N.J., in an hour and a half. 
 Mr. Bonner is not a wildly successful real estate agent, and the properties were not the hottest new listings on the market. He is the executive assistant to Joseph T. Cassidy, the sheriff of Hudson County, and the properties he sells are in foreclosure. 
"So far this year, we've issued about 250 new numbers," Mr. Bonner said, referring to the case numbers assigned to foreclosure sales scheduled by the sheriff's office. "There's no telling how many of those will actually end up being sold."
In fact, mortgage experts say, while the number of mortgage delinquencies has increased in the last five years or so, the proportion of homes that end up being sold through foreclosure has been declining. And that, the experts say, is largely because of lenders' intensified efforts to work out arrangements with delinquent borrowers that let them avoid foreclosure and stay in their homes whenever possible.
Among those arrangements are special forbearance agreements, where the lender may temporarily reduce mortgage payments; mortgage modification plans, where the borrower refinances the mortgage to one with a lower monthly payment; and partial claims, in which the Department of Housing and Urban Development will provide certain homeowners with the money necessary to make a delinquent mortgage current.
The key to taking advantage of a lender's willingness to help, however, is a borrower's willingness to confront a problem before it spirals out of control. The borrowers must contact their lender, a lawyer or a debt counseling agency, while at the same time avoiding the opportunists who descend on them once a lender has started foreclosure.
"Foreclosure is never a surprise," said David Petrovich, executive director of the Society for the Preservation of Continued Homeownership, a not-for-profit loan-counseling organization in Oakhurst, N.J. "As soon as you miss that first payment, you know you're in trouble. And if you're not making your mortgage payment, you're probably not paying your other bills, either. That's when the phone starts ringing, people start demanding money, and you're really at your wit's end."
In the midst of that maelstrom, Mr. Petrovich said, many borrowers will be contacted by any number of individuals or organizations that offer to help the homeowner avoid foreclosure. And while many of those offers may be legitimate, he said, others could leave the homeowner worse off than before.
"There is a proliferation of scamsters out there," Mr. Petrovich said. Some homeowners against whom foreclosure actions have been filed are contacted by individuals who try to persuade them to avoid the stigma of foreclosure by having the homeowner signing over title to the house to them and then remain in the house as their tenants.
"They tell you to pay them rent and they'll work out something with the mortgage lender," Mr. Petrovich said. Meanwhile, he said, the so-called benefactor makes no payments on the mortgage, works out no arrangement with the lender and collects rent from the resident until the foreclosure sale takes place. 
"If anyone asks you to sign your house over to avoid foreclosure," Mr. Petrovich said, "run the other way."
But that does not mean the homeowner can ignore the problem. The machinery of foreclosure can start very shortly after the first payment is missed.
Bruce J. Bergman, an East Meadow, N.Y., lawyer who is author of the three-volume "Bergman on New York Mortgage Foreclosures" (Matthew Bender, 2002), said most mortgages provide that if a borrower does not make payments as required, the lender can demand that the entire balance of the loan, which might otherwise be due 20 or 30 years later, be paid immediately.
Mr. Bergman pointed out, however, that the widely used Fannie Mae/Freddie Mac mortgage form requires the lender to send a 30-day cure letter to the borrower. He explained that such a letter gives the borrower 30 days to bring payments current or face acceleration of the balance of the loan. "After the 30 days have passed, the lender basically has the option of saying we no longer wish to accept the arrears, but we declare due now the entire balance of the loan.
"As a practical matter," Mr. Bergman said, "most lenders will attempt to collect arrears and will not start foreclosure proceedings for at least three months or more." When a foreclosure is started, he said, the lender's attorney will typically search the public records to determine whether anyone else has any liens on the property and name those parties as defendants in the foreclosure action. That step ensures that whoever buys the property at the foreclosure sale will get title free of liens. Identifying, tracking down and serving other lienholders with the foreclosure papers, however, "can take many months," Mr. Bergman said.
When the necessary parties have been served and the time for filing answers to the suit has expired, he said, the lender's lawyer takes steps leading up to the home's sale. In New York, Mr. Bergman said, the lender typically asks the court to appoint a referee to compute the sum due under the mortgage and, once that has been determined, asks the court to issue a judgment of foreclosure and sale. 
"The judgment of foreclosure and sale provides that a sale shall be conducted under the direction of the referee," Mr. Bergman said, adding that after running the required advertisements of the sale -- a process that takes about four weeks -- the referee conducts the sale at the scheduled time and place.
IN most foreclosure auctions, sales prices can range from as little as $100, if the lender is the only bidder, to the amount owed to the lender or even more if the bidding is intense. 
"The whole world is free to bid at a foreclosure sale," Mr. Bergman said, "and once the hammer falls, the homeowner no longer owns the property." He added that in New York, the successful bidder must typically post with the referee a deposit of 10 percent of the sale price in the form of cash, certified check or bank check. The balance, he said, is due within 30 days, a factor that makes buying at a foreclosure sale difficult for most ordinary people.
(In New Jersey, after a court has issued a judgment of foreclosure, the sheriff in the county where the property is situated conducts the foreclosure sale and requires a deposit of 20 percent from the successful bidder. But the borrower has a right of redemption, that is, the right to reclaim ownership of the property by paying all amounts due on the loan -- including late charges and legal fees -- for up to 10 days after the sale. In New York there is no right of redemption, and in Connecticut there is no right of redemption after a foreclosure sale has been confirmed by a court.)
While a homeowner can arrange a so-called workout to avoid foreclosure at any stage, the experts agree that the faster a borrower acts, the better his chances.
"Early intervention is absolutely the key," said Joseph Sakole, vice president of loss mitigation for Fannie Mae. "The sooner a borrower in trouble contacts his lender, the easier it will be for the lender to help solve the problems." In fact, he said, most lenders and mortgage service companies have foreclosure prevention departments.
Fannie Mae, a government-created company that buys residential mortgage loans on the secondary market, has recently created a number of Home Saver Solutions for borrowers who fall behind on their mortgage, Mr. Sakole said. For example, he said, one of the "easiest fixes" Fannie Mae lenders can provide occurs when a borrower misses a single payment. "Basically, if this is a one-time occurrence, we'll work out a pay plan so that the borrower can spread out the arrearages over five months," he said. Such a workout, he added, is most useful for borrowers who have had a temporary drop in income, possibly because of a job loss or unexpected bills. Since the idea is to catch an incipient problem before it becomes a significant one, Mr. Sakole said, the borrower needs to notify the lender immediately.
It is also possible for homeowners who have fallen behind on their mortgages to take advantage of some other strategies intended to avoid foreclosure.
Adam Glantz, a spokesman for HUD, said that in some cases, lenders will agree to a "special forbearance," whereby the lender may provide for a temporary reduction or suspension of mortgage payments to let a homeowner in arrears recover. In most cases, Mr. Glantz said, those most likely to qualify for a special forbearance have temporarily lost jobs or incurred unusual expenses and can prove that they will be able to make future mortgage payments.
Another possibility, Mr. Glantz said, is a mortgage modification. 
"You may be able to refinance the debt or extend the term of your mortgage loan," he said, explaining that if current interest rates are significantly less than the interest rate on the mortgage, the lender might be willing to refinance the loan to a lower rate, reducing the monthly payment. As with other arrangements made with lenders, Mr. Glantz said, the borrower must be able to convince the lender that he is in a position to make the new mortgage payments.
In some cases, he said, homeowners who have loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration and who are behind in their mortgage payments may be able to get a "partial claim" from HUD. Mr. Glantz explained that if an F.H.A. loan was delinquent for between four months and a year and the lender had not yet started a foreclosure, a partial claim may be possible if the borrower can show that he can resume the regular monthly payments.
WITH a partial claim, he said, HUD provides the money to the lender to bring the mortgage current in exchange for the borrower's agreeing to repay the money to HUD -- interest free -- when the property is sold.
But why would lenders be willing to go so far to help out borrowers who are not making payments?
"Because your lender doesn't want to own your house," said Douglas Duncan, chief economist for the Mortgage Bankers Association, a trade organization based in Washington.
Mr. Duncan pointed out that there were other potential solutions to mortgage problems that lenders might consider. If there is enough equity in the house to pay off the mortgage should the house be sold, the lender may hold off on foreclosing, provided that the lender believes the borrower is making a good-faith effort to sell the home at a reasonable price.
In addition, he said, a lender may agree to a "deed in lieu of foreclosure." With that, he said, the lender agrees to accept title to the house from the borrower instead of foreclosing.
"That gives the lender more flexibility in disposing of the property," Mr. Duncan said. "And the borrower doesn't end up with a foreclosure judgment against him."
The last resort for borrowers who are in over their heads, of course, is bankruptcy. And while filing for bankruptcy will usually delay a foreclosure sale for a few months, the homeowner generally loses the house in the end. Under certain circumstances, however, filing for bankruptcy can prevent a foreclosure sale and keep a homeowner in the home.
Mr. Bergman, the East Meadow lawyer, said that when a homeowner files for bankruptcy, the foreclosure proceeding is immediately suspended, or "stayed." In "straight" bankruptcies filed under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code -- which results in the permanent forgiveness of all of a debtor's dischargeable debts -- the lender usually asks the court to lift the stay and allow the foreclosure to proceed. If there is no equity in the property -- meaning the market value of the house does not exceed the amount owed -- that request is usually granted, he said. 
If there is equity in the property, however, Mr. Bergman said, it is likely that the court will permit the trustee to sell the property to satisfy the mortgage debt and to help pay off other debts of the debtor. 
With a bankruptcy petition filed under Chapter 13 of the Bankruptcy Code, however, the person filing the petition is basically asking for a restructuring of the debt rather than the total discharge of all debts. In such a case, Mr. Bergman said, the bankruptcy court will assess the homeowner's financial condition to determine whether it is feasible for the homeowner to pay off all accrued debt -- including arrears on the mortgage -- in monthly installments over a period of years.
"The maximum number of years you can get is five years," Mr. Bergman said, adding that once a Chapter 13 bankruptcy petition is filed, the homeowner must remain current with his monthly mortgage payments. 
One key to getting a Chapter 13 bankruptcy, as with any other strategy that will prevent a foreclosure, is to consult with an expert as soon as possible.
"Timing is critical," said Vincent J. Freccia III, a Stamford, Conn., lawyer who specializes in foreclosures. He said that it is much easier for a borrower who is only one or two months behind to work out a deal with a lender -- or to qualify for a Chapter 13 bankruptcy -- than for a borrower who is six or seven months in arrears. And the earlier a borrower can get to an expert, he said, the more time the expert has to explore potential options.
"In most cases, there isn't any legal defense to the foreclosure," Mr. Freccia said. "But if I can manage to get the homeowner a little extra time before the foreclosure sale, he might be able to refinance or sell the house on his own."
Homeowners without the means to hire a lawyer can generally get free counseling from nonprofit agencies like Neighborhood Housing Services of New York City.
KEN DAVIS, program director for foreclosure prevention in the organization's Brooklyn office -- there are 10 offices throughout the city -- said that his office alone provides free foreclosure counseling to more than 400 homeowners each year. 
"The first thing we do is tell them to bring in the last four months' bank statements, some recent pay stubs, a copy of their tax return and a written explanation as to why they fell behind," Mr. Davis said. "Then we prepare a budget that details what the homeowner can afford to pay and we submit it to the lender."
In many cases, he said, if the homeowner has a job and the ability to continue making payments and has not fallen too far behind, a competent housing counselor can work out some kind of arrangement to stop the foreclosure and keep the person in the home.
Even if such an arrangement cannot be worked out, Mr. Davis said, it may be possible for the counselor to arrange what is known as a "preforeclosure short sale." With that, he said, the lender allows the homeowner to sell the property -- even though the sale price will be less than the amount due on the loan -- and then forgives the remaining balance.
(A state-by-state list of housing counseling organizations can be found on the Web site of the Department of Housing and Urban Development at www.hud.gov. While there are legitimate and effective counseling services not on the HUD list, including Internet-based companies that charge for their services, homeowners should check with their local Better Business Bureau or state attorney general's office to determine whether a company has been the subject of any complaints.)
"The biggest mistake people make when they're in trouble," Mr. Davis said, "is not doing anything."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In late April, the Monroe County Sheriff's Department scheduled 78 foreclosure sales in Stroudsburg, Pa., and 33 properties were actually sold. (Associated Press); Twenty properties were sold at a foreclosure sale by the Hudson County sheriff's office this month.; A successful New Jersey bidder typically posts a deposit of 20 percent. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times) (pg. 1); David Petrovich of the Society for the Preservation of Continued Homeownership in Oakhurst, N.J. (Dith Pran/The New York Times) (pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (92%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (88%); SHERIFFS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CONSUMER CREDIT COUNSELING (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); PERSONAL DEBT (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CITIES (65%) HOUSING; FORECLOSURES; MORTGAGES 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



632 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: CENSUS; 
In a Twist, Female-Led Families Gain

BYLINE:  By RICHARD LEZIN JONES 

DATELINE: NEWARK 

 BODY:
IN a sign of the persistent gap between rich and poor even in flush times -- the number of New Jersey residents living in poverty increased slightly in the past decade, according to census information made public last week.
 But over the same period, the number of poor households headed by women with young children -- long one of poverty's most intractable demographic segments -- fell to its lowest level in the last 20 years. 
 Analysts said that the disparate findings could indicate that many of the reforms to the welfare system were beginning to take hold, driving more single mothers into the work force. The figures may also show that the celebrated tide of economic prosperity during the 1990's did not lift all boats. 
"The rich got richer, the poor got poorer and the middle class stagnated," said Barrie Peterson, of Seton Hall University's Institute on Work. "That's the numbers. The question is, 'Gee, if this is happening during a boom time, what's the matter here?' That's one of the fundamental questions that needs to be asked."
Census figures show that from 1990 to 2000 the number of families in New Jersey living below the poverty level -- defined under federal guidelines as about $18,000 for a family of four -- grew about two-thirds of a percentage point to 6.25 percent.
The decade also saw the portion female-led households with children under age 5 fall more than 8 percentage points to 37.25 percent.
The latest numbers represent a continuation of a 20-year-long trend that has seen the percentage of such households fall by nearly a quarter since 1980, when 61.20 percent lived in poverty.
Mr. Peterson said that the drop in poverty in households led by women might be attributable to any number of factors, including a decline in the state's birth rate to the increased availability of child care (allowing more single mothers to work) to women having more success in winning delinquent child-support payments in recent years.
That decline also runs counter to an increase in the percentage of single New Jerseyans living in poverty, which rose about a percentage point, to 8.5 percent.
"It's kind of counterintuitive that the group that has been pushed more into poverty has been individuals," said Andrew A. Beveridge, a sociology professor at Queens College who conducted the poverty analyses for The New York Times.
While the disparities in the figures might make it more difficult to identify a dominant trend, Professor Beveridge agreed that they might suggest that the economic prosperity of the 1990's was relatively limited in scope and not just in New Jersey.
"In places like Connecticut, New York, the boom did not penetrate to the immigrant community, to the minority community, to some of the people we don't see and know," he said. "So, if you were upper-, middle- or in the higher classes, there was a boom."
But the numbers indicate that the boom may have bypassed many others, particularly those in the state's largest urban areas. Of the state's four most populous cities, Paterson saw the greatest increase in the percentage of poor families, which grew by more than 3 percent. Paterson, New Jersey's third-largest city, also saw the largest increase in the percentage of female-led households with young children living in poverty; the number grew by more than 3 percent from 1990 to 2000.
Of the state's largest municipalities, only Jersey City saw declines in the percentages of both families and female-led households living in poverty. Jersey City also noted declines in the percentage of individuals living in poverty.
The census figures about poor single women and children may dovetail with a report released last week by a children's advocacy group that New Jersey children were faring better than they had in a decade by such measures as infant mortality and child deaths.
The report, "Kids Count," by the Annie E. Casey Foundation, also found that the state must still contend with its share of nettlesome issues. The report indicated that more babies were born underweight in New Jersey and that more children were living with only one parent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); CENSUS (91%); POOR POPULATION (90%); FAMILY (90%); POVERTY RATES (90%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (89%); TRENDS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); WOMEN (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (77%); WORKING MOTHERS (76%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); SINGLE PARENTS (75%); STATISTICS (74%); LABOR FORCE (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (71%) CENSUS 

ORGANIZATION: SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: JONES, RICHARD LEZIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



633 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Society Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS; 
Alice Chen, Joshua Plotkin

 BODY:
Alice Siau-In Chen, a daughter of Dr. Lin-Lin Chen and Dr. Ching-Jygh Chen of Jackson, Miss., is to be married today to Joshua Benjamin Plotkin, a son of Janet Bufe Plotkin and Dr. 
Irving H. Plotkin of Cambridge, Mass. The Rev. F. Washington Jarvis, an Episcopal priest, will officiate at a ceremony blending elements of Judaism and Buddhism at the Harvard University chapel in Cambridge.
 The bride, 28, and bridegroom, 26, met at Harvard, where she graduated magna cum laude and he summa cum laude. 
 The bride, who will be known as Alice Chen-Plotkin, received a master's degree in biological sciences from Oxford University, where she was a Rhodes scholar. She is now a fourth-year medical student at Harvard and received a Paul and Daisy Soros Fellowship for New Americans. Her parents are ophthalmologists at the University of Mississippi Medical Center in Jackson, where the bride's father is the department chairman.
The bridegroom received a master's degree in mathematical biology from Princeton, where he is a candidate for a doctorate in applied mathematics. He also researches theoretical biology at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, of which he is a member. He was recently named a junior fellow of the Harvard Society of Fellows, where in July he will begin doing applied mathematical research. 
His father, who was the vice president for forensic economics until March at Arthur D. Little, the consulting company in Cambridge, now is the managing director for tax services in Boston for PriceWaterhouseCoopers, the accounting firm. The bridegroom's mother retired as the head tutor at the Carroll School, a private school for language-disabled children in Lincoln, Mass., and is a board member of the Rockport Chamber Music Festival in Massachusetts and the Friends of McLean Hospital in Belmont, Mass.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); RELIGION (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); CHILDREN (73%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); MATHEMATICS (72%); FESTIVALS (71%); TAX CONSULTING (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); JEWS & JUDAISM (56%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (53%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (50%); FORENSICS (50%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (93%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI (56%); INSTITUTE FOR ADVANCED STUDY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: CHEN, ALICE SIAU-IN (ALICE CHEN-PLOTKIN); PLOTKIN, JOSHUA BENJAMIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSON, MS, USA (88%); BOSTON, MA, USA (77%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



634 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: Bush and Latin America 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 "U.S. Hasn't Kept Promises to Latin America, Critics Say" (news article, May 19) speaks of "a sense of betrayal by many countries in the region" in reaction to the Bush administration's Latin America policy. Having followed the United States' advice as to how to manage their economies and having expected a closer and more profitable relationship with the United States, they now find the United States increasingly indifferent to their plight. 
 Argentines may have a special peeve, for while President Bush now asserts that he knows nothing of Enron, he acted as a lobbyist for Enron in 1988. He urged the privatization of Argentina's publicly owned energy system and insisted that Enron be given first option to buy up gas, electricity, water and other Argentine utilities. By and large, Enron was given that option, with the same disastrous results that Enron brought everywhere.

WAYNE S. SMITH
Senior Fellow
Center for International Policy
Washington, May 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); PRIVATIZATION (88%); LOBBYING (87%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (85%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (85%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (85%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (85%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (66%); TRENDS (66%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: SMITH, WAYNE S 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); ARGENTINA (92%) LATIN AMERICA

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



635 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2621 words

HEADLINE: Passing the Torch 

BYLINE:  By ANNE HEMMETT STERN 

 BODY:
NEW YORKERS take for granted the essentials of city life: takeout, MetroCards, yellow cabs, all part of the daily thrum. For decades, New Yorkers haven't thought twice about waking up at 3 a.m. with a longing for kiwi or popcorn because they know the Korean-owned delis are there. 
 These beacons of convenience have brightened the slate-gray streets since the late 60's and 70's, when waves of Koreans stepped in to replace the city's aging Italian and Jewish greengrocers. Whether white-collar or working-class, the newcomers struggled to find jobs and often wedged their ambitions between narrow store walls, much like the grocer father in Chang-rae Lee's acclaimed 1995 novel "Native Speaker," a quintessential member of the first generation. 
 They labored mightily, pioneering the all-night grocery, and in the process creating a now familiar imprint around the city. Chris Choi, secretary general of the Korean Grocers Association, estimates that Koreans own 2,000 grocery-delis out of 3,000 grocery-related businesses in the five boroughs. 
More than 30 years have elapsed since the first generation of Koreans began tempting New Yorkers with their wares. Many have already retired. Who is minding the store now? The expected answer -- those immigrants' children -- is almost always wrong.
"There's no desire on the parents' part to have their kids take over the stores," said Fred Carriere, vice president and executive director of the Korea Society. "They want their kids to go to Harvard and become doctors and lawyers."
As a result, today's Korean delis are typically managed by more recent Korean immigrants. Some of these later arrivals belong to what is known as the "ilchom ose" or "1.5" generation, born there, raised here. Others came as adults, on student visas or sponsored by relatives. But regardless of their roots, today's city greengrocers differ markedly from their predecessors. 
To the customer hurrying in at the end of the day for the makings of dinner, the faces behind the counter may look the same, if younger and less careworn. But few of the new breed plan to make careers of running groceries, as their predecessors did. 
Some pursue the business reluctantly, looking for ways to branch out or escape entirely. Others long for a 9-to-5 job and time with their children. Still others echo the earlier grocers in energy but have transformed the business to offer products far beyond the labor-intensive fruits and vegetables favored by their elders.
For all of them, the economics of running a small business in the city have grown more complex, especially after Sept. 11. Here are the stories of three members of the new generation.
IN a rare quiet moment one recent afternoon, Chang Hwan Han stole a little time from his workday to read a few pages of a biography of the Mongol Emperor Kublai Khan. With his beard and long ponytail, Mr. Han, 36, looks like the laid-back graduate student he was a decade ago. He seems almost perplexed to be a grocer, as though he is still puzzling out how he made the journey from scholar to convenience store owner. 
The journey began in 1976, when his parents arrived in New York with three sons under 11 and 300 hardcover books, "all mine," Mr. Han said. His father got a job at a friend's grocery on the Upper West Side and, within a year, opened his own store, the Han Family Market, at Broadway and West 93rd Street. Financing came from a "kye," the Korean version of the rotating credit club whose members contribute equally to a communal pool.
The Hans lived in a one-bedroom apartment near the store. Though the family practiced Confucianism, the boys attended St. Hilda's and St. Hugh's, an Episcopal school in Morningside Heights.
Like just about all Korean grocers of the day, Chang's parents were on duty 18 hours a day, seven days a week. By age 11, Chang was helping out after school and during vacations. He made a game of wrapping heads of lettuce. 
"I used to be able to package one case under eight minutes or something," he said. And he would tell himself, "I'm just as good as these grownups." He liked being with his parents. But he never imagined he would one day own a store himself.
In 1984, when Mr. Han was still in his teens, his family bought a house in Englewood, N.J., one of the suburban communities that attracted many of the city's successful Korean grocers. Mr. Han went on to receive a bachelor's degree in Asian studies and political science from the University of Michigan and began a master's program at Stanford, much to the delight of his mother.
"She wanted me to be a professor," he said. "She figured I'm not going to be a lawyer, so she thought, you know, professor's not bad."
But he took a leave in 1992 to nurse his father, who was dying, and never returned. Borrowing money from relatives, he took over a lunch place in Philadelphia, sold it two years later, and used the proceeds to put a down payment on an uncle's grocery on Broadway near West 79th Street.
Despite the name, Sirius Vegetables, vegetables are a small part of the inventory. Rows of flowers bedeck the sidewalk beneath the store's blue awning. Under the gleaming silver ceiling, the nearly 2,000-square-foot space is stocked for every household need.
In some ways, Mr. Han is retracing his parents' footsteps. When his mother died in 1998, he moved his family into the house in Englewood. His two sons, 5 and 7, go to his old school.
But there are differences. Unlike most of his father's generation, who turned to kyes because borrowing from a bank was almost impossible, Mr. Han has been able to secure bank loans.
Running a grocery in the current economic climate is a challenge, and individual grocers are intensely private about costs. But Harry Chun, founder and executive director of the Korean Produce Association, which represents merchants in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, estimates that the average Manhattan grocery takes in $80,000 a month. Most of this, about 60 percent, goes to merchandise. Nearly 30 percent goes to wages, rent, taxes and utilities. The remaining 10 percent, about $8,000 a month, is profit.
Although 2,000 people pass through Mr. Han's store daily, individual sales are modest. In January, when he renewed his lease, the rent jumped 50 percent. Because of the uncertainty he has been "desperately trying to get out of that grocery business."
He added, "If Victoria's Secret wants to come in, you're out of there."
Another departure from the pioneering generation is expansion into related businesses to help a merchant escape from pure greengrocering. Mr. Han has branched out into restaurants and now runs two. Two years ago he opened Emo's, on Second Avenue near 81st Street, featuring fledgling actors as waiters and music from the Beatles to Alicia Keys. Emo's has a decidedly American flavor, and the spicing of traditional Korean dishes like kal bi, succulent marinated short ribs, is muted to accommodate a Western palate. At Rice Bowl, which Mr. Han opened last fall on Broadway near 71st Street, a staff of friendly students serves a variety of ready-made Asian foods in a trendy, cafeteria-style setting with decor heavy on wood and umber-hued fixtures.
For Mr. Han, the restaurants are the next step. "All I've done is small businesses," he said. "Am I going to go work for AT&T all of a sudden? So what do you do? You've got to scramble."
DANIEL YANG once dreamed of directing movies and television shows. Today, at 44, he is unexpectedly committed to his grocery businesses, though his sense of purpose is tinged with disappointment.
Mr. Yang came to America in 1982 after studying theater design at the Art University of Seoul and completing three years of compulsory military service. He was 25. His goal was a degree from the University of Wisconsin. 
But tuition and living expenses ate up his savings in less than a semester, and he couldn't find a job. At a friend's suggestion, he moved to New York, where he soon shared a fifth-floor one-bedroom walkup in Jamaica, Queens.
For the next three years, Mr. Yang studied communications at York College, part of the City University system, and earned the money to pay the modest tuition by working 12-hour days on weekends and during vacations at a Korean deli on Second Avenue. It was there, in 1985, that he met a young Frenchwoman named Collette Rouille, who managed an uncle's restaurant a few doors down. The couple married six months later, and at his wife's request, Mr. Yang renamed himself Daniel. She said his real given name, Dong Kyu, sounded too much like "thank you."
When he graduated in 1986, his uncertain command of English limited his options. 
"I had to open a little eye on finding some strengths for my life," he said. "When I graduated from school, you know, it was very hard to get a job for the field that I studied for. Because English is my second language, I cannot express and communicate same as American does." He considered returning to Korea but thought it too much to ask of his wife. "Steadily my dreams faded away," he said.
For a few years, he managed a Korean grocery on the Upper East Side, and in 1992 he and a partner bought Hudson Gourmet, south of 10th Street. While the first generation dealt primarily in labor-intensive fruit and vegetables, the sandwiches, salads and packaged goods favored by their successors require less menial work and yield a higher profit margin. At Hudson Gourmet, fruits and vegetables are only a tenth of the inventory.
Within a year, Mr. Yang arranged to buy out his partner for $210,000. For three years, he worked 13-hour days, seven days a week, to pay off that expense. The hard work gave him hope. 
"It was like marathon running all day long," he said. "Sometimes I felt like I had fire on my feet."
His attitude stands in contrast to that of members of the 1.5 generation, who are generally discouraged from greengrocering even though some make it their life work. Its members speak fluent, if gently accented, English, and they see themselves as American as well as Korean, and thus as having more options than those who arrive as adults. Mr. Yang's perspective seems closer to that of the first generation. 
"I still feel like I'm sitting in somebody else's chair," he said, "like I'm renting the chair."
In an effort to expand his options, last fall he opened Kaffe Deli Market Place on Remsen Street in Brooklyn Heights. "I had the 'grand opening' on Sept. 10," he said. "The next day there was a lot of smoke." But he is sanguine about prospects for the Brooklyn store, despite its tough start.
"I can handle it," he said the other day, hands clasped over one knee of his carefully pressed jeans as he sat in the tidy back dining area. "If I'll be dying on the floor in one of my stores, I'll be happy, because I did my best."
His goal is to open a megastore specializing in organic produce. He wants to move from his apartment in Astoria, Queens, to Long Island for the benefit of his son and daughter, 8 and 15, who he hopes will work in what he calls "fancy jobs" when they grow up. 
He also hopes to feel less as if he is renting another person's chair. 
"I would like to settle down," he said, "try to feel like home in every way."
PLANTED firmly behind the checkout counter of Bear Farm on Broadway near 105th Street, Elizabeth Lee, 34, is a whirlwind of activity. Swiveling from register to counter and back, she weighs produce, rings it up and bags it, processing each customer's purchases as quickly as a pieceworker on an assembly line. "O.K., how are you?" she asks an elderly woman who struggles to convey her shopping from basket to counter. "I got it. Just let me take care of everything." 
Nearby, her husband stands on a milk crate, restocking shelves. As laconic as his wife is loquacious, he carefully places one apple atop another as if building a pyramid of cards.
Despite the couple's immersion in their work, Ms. Lee hopes they will leave the grocery business soon. 
"My question to myself is, 'Do I want to work 13-hour days for the rest of my life?' " she said. "Do I want to throw $100 at my kid and say, 'Go play with your friends because Mommy doesn't have time to be with you?' I want to suffer here for a few years and then get out."
Ms. Lee's path to Bear Farm was anything but direct. She was born Young Oak Doe just south of the boundary between North and South Korea. In 1968, her mother fell in love with a Mexican-American G.I. and followed him back to the United States, leaving behind her husband and infant daughter. Seven years later, married to the soldier, the mother reappeared, scooped up her daughter and whisked her to the largely Mexican-American city of Salinas, Calif. 
"What's that language you're speaking?" the mother asked when her daughter came home from school speaking Spanish. "This is English, no?" the child replied.
But she quickly adapted to her new homeland. At 19, she changed her name to Elizabeth and became an American citizen. At 25, she moved to New York, and six years later she met a Korean immigrant named Sing Lee, soon to rename himself Tommy Lee, at a friend's wedding. They married two months later. 
At the time, Ms. Lee was working for a Flushing importer, her husband was employed by a Manhattan wig wholesaler, and the couple had no intention of going into the grocery business. 
"We wanted to live a 9-to-5-job life and try to save some money together," Ms. Lee said. "To live a very moderate life, go to movies, have dinner together. Not all the headache of running a business." 
They acquired the store a year after their marriage simply to help out a relative; the owner, Mr. Lee's sister, was on the verge of bankruptcy. As part of a continuing investigation into wage practices in greengroceries, the state attorney general's office had ordered her to pay her six workers $62,500 in back salary. To make the purchase, the Lees borrowed from a friend -- how much, they wouldn't say -- and hope to be out of debt by year's end. 
The hours are less grueling and more flexible than those of the first generation. But the going is still as hard as the concrete floor on which the Lees stand 13 hours a day, five days a week. They leave their Flushing apartment at 7 each weekday morning and return after 10 at night. Except on weekends, when Ms. Lee stays home and her husband works half days, they don't see much of their 7-month-old son. 
"Right now me and my husband are in that kind of hard stage," Ms. Lee said. "But the American dream doesn't happen overnight; white picket fences, you know?"
Like most second-generation grocers, the Lees use a distributor, saving themselves the previous generation's daily grind of predawn drives to the Hunts Point wholesale market in the Bronx, not to mention the discrimination that confronted their predecessors. Harry Chun of the Korean Produce Association tells stories of bleary-eyed first-generation grocers who were told by wholesalers that prime parking spaces were reserved for whites. Now that 60 percent of the buyers are Korean, the market is more welcoming.
The Lees are not certain that their lease on Bear Farm will be renewed when it expires next year. As rents throughout the city continue to rise, commercial leases are getting shorter. "Everything is at the whim of the landlord," said Song Soo Kim, president of the Korean American Small Business Services Center, a 16-year-old organization in Flushing. "The landlord is king."
Ms. Lee has recently become a distributor for Market America, a company that sells consumer products. She dreams of supporting her husband while he spends time with their son, studies English and computers, and plays tennis. "Me and my husband are thinking about a lot of things," she said. "Right now it's kind of, you know, scary."

CORRECTION-DATE: June 2, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article in this section last Sunday about Korean-owned delis misstated the number of grocery businesses in the city. According to the state's Department of Agriculture and Markets, the current number is 11,481, not 3,000.

GRAPHIC: Photos: THE NEW WAVE -- The city's current crop of Korean grocers include Daniel Yang, near right, who runs a Brooklyn Heights deli, and Elizabeth Lee, far right, and Chang Hwan Han, owners of Upper West Side groceries. (Top, Ruby Washington/The New York Times; right, Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times; above, Carol Halebian for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Chang Hwan Han seems almost perplexed as to how he journeyed from academia to deli. (Carol Halebian for The New York Times); Daniel Yang is sanguine about the prospects for his Brooklyn Heights store, which opened Sept. 10, despite its tough start. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times); Except on weekends, Elizabeth Lee sees little of her 7-month-old son. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (91%); IMMIGRATION (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (89%); CITIES (89%); ASIAN AMERICANS (77%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); REFUGEES (66%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (65%) FOOD; DELICATESSENS; KOREAN-AMERICANS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES 

PERSON: STERN, ANNE HEMMETT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (78%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



636 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1029 words

PERSON: Iqbal Z. Quadir 

HEADLINE: Private Sector; 
Helping the Poor, Phone by Phone

BYLINE:  By SUSAN E. REED 

 BODY:
IN the early 1990's, when Iqbal Z. Quadir was looking for investors to back his idea for a mobile phone network in Bangladesh, he said he was turned down by an executive at a cellular telephone company in New York who told him, "We're not the Red Cross."
That mind-set, which interprets investment in the third world as charity, not an opportunity for profit, is what keeps countries poor, Mr. Quadir said. 
 "In the United States we either give charity to the poor or we ignore them, and neither one helps them," he said. "Business is a proven method of solving their problems in a sustainable way." 
 At the end of last year, Mr. Quadir showed how third-world ventures can be profitable -- and provide a useful service -- when GrameenPhone, the cellphone company he founded in Bangladesh, made $27 million in pretax profits. It turned that profit after just five years -- far sooner than many first-world start-ups.
The experience of Mr. Quadir, now a lecturer in public policy at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, contradicts the conventional wisdom from luminaries like Bill Gates, who has said that there is no market for such sophisticated devices in places of widespread poverty and illiteracy as well as unreliable electricity. Through his foundation, Mr. Gates has sought to first improve the health of the poor.
To Mr. Quadir, the two approaches are not mutually exclusive. He says the poor will improve their own health as they become richer, and he sees cellphones as tools of production, not consumption.
With help from Telenor, the Norwegian telecommunications giant, and Grameen Bank, an established lender in Bangladesh, GrameenPhone began operations in 1997. Investment to date has totaled nearly $200 million. The enterprise has two tiers: it sells phones and time to urban customers, and it sponsors Village Phone, a program in which people without phone service in rural areas take out small loans for cellphones and buy air time at cost. Most borrowers are women; Grameen Bank's founder, Muhammad Yunus, has said they are better credit risks.
The borrowers then charge other villagers the market rate to make calls. GrameenPhone now has 575,000 subscribers in 12,000 villages. In fact, at a time when growth is slowing in the American and European cellphone markets, the number of GrameenPhone subscribers is rising rapidly. 
A native of Bangladesh, Mr. Quadir, 43, was in a unusual position to put the deal together because he bridges many worlds. He holds two master's degrees from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, one in finance, the other in applied economics. He helped establish Atrium Capital, a Wall Street investment bank, but one day, when Atrium's computer system was not working and he could not conduct business, he was reminded of his boyhood in Bangladesh: In 1971, when transportation was disrupted by war, he spent an entire day walking, trying to find medicine for his younger brother. But he returned empty-handed. That day in his Wall Street office, he concluded that "connectivity is productivity" and soon set out to prove it in Bangladesh.
He saw an opportunity to provide a needed service there and to make money by going into a wide-open market. The per capita income in Bangladesh is one-hundredth of what it is in the United States, "so you need 100 Bangladeshis to provide the buying power of one American," he said.
Just because they have as much income, though, does not mean those 100 Bangladeshis will buy the way one American does. "It's reasonably self-evident that they will buy a lot more bread and a lot fewer cellphones," said Raymond Fisman, an assistant professor of economics at Columbia University's Graduate School of Business. Nearly all the potential investors who were approached by Mr. Quadir expressed such skepticism. Sixteen, mainly in the United States, turned him down. Mr. Quadir worked four years, without salary, to get his vision financed.
Mr. Quadir now serves on the boards of many organizations, like DigitalDivide.org, that are devoted to finding ways to combine public and private financing to help entrepreneurs in emerging markets.
Combining financing this way is not new. The International Finance Corporation, the private investment wing of the World Bank, does so often. But there is less interest among private investors in developing the infrastructure or expanding services that can actually reach the mass population, said Daniel Crisafulli, a loan officer at the finance group.
Many investors simply do not want to negotiate with foreign governments, which often expect high fees to gain access to their markets.
Mr. Quadir was fortunate. The Bangladesh government did not charge an up-front licensing fee, because he believes it expected cellphones to be a marginal business for the very rich. GrameenPhone now has more subscribers than the government-owned telephone company.
Despite Mr. Quadir's aversion to a charitable business approach, GrameenPhone would not have gotten off the ground without financing from private investors who were also interested in philanthropy.
Joshua Mailman, who founded the Social Venture Network, a group of entrepreneurs and investors concerned about social justice and the environment, gave Mr. Quadir $125,000 to begin the project and to travel from Bangladesh to the United States and Europe. Mr. Mailman is among the 12 board members of Gonophone, GrameenPhone's New York-based holding company. Others include Ben Cohen, of Ben and Jerry's Ice Cream, and Arnold Hiatt, the former chief executive of Stride Rite. 
With his classes at Harvard done for the semester, Mr. Quadir, Gonophone's president, may soon be leading this group on an investment adventure even more difficult than in Bangladesh: setting up a cellphone network in Afghanistan. Even if the political situation there stabilizes, there is no reliable banking system or telecommunications infrastructure. Mr. Quadir envisions starting a small lending system and a cellphone network at the same time.
The biggest challenge for Mr. Quadir will be to prove he can replicate GrameenPhone's success in other, very different countries. "I have done it before," he said. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iqbal Z. Quadir, a Harvard professor, founded a cellphone business in Bangladesh, his homeland. It became profitable in only five years. (Marty Katz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (50%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: NORWEGIAN TELECOM (53%)

ORGANIZATION: GRAMEEN-PHONE 

BILL GATES (56%) REED, SUSAN E; QUADIR, IQBAL Z 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) BANGLADESH (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORWAY (79%) BANGLADESH

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



637 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
No Stampede, Yet, to Technology

BYLINE:  By DAN COLARUSSO 

 BODY:
JONATHAN COHEN, the director of investor relations at Mercator Software, has received several calls recently from portfolio managers wanting to "kick the tires" of that small company, which helps other businesses integrate their computer systems.
 Some professional investors have taken the trouble to study the client lists of the company, which is based in Wilton, Conn., and to scrutinize its financial statements, Mr. Cohen said. But that has not led to heightened demand for its stock, which is languishing at $2.35 a share, down from a high of almost $150 in early 2000. 
 Many investors have been studying small and midsize high-technology companies like Mercator, hoping to uncover a stock that will soar whenever the two-year tech slump ends. But there has hardly been a stampede back into the sector. With the pain of recent losses still fresh, many professionals are especially cautious, demanding lean operations, clean balance sheets, substantial cash reserves and significant market share in companies' core businesses. 
"I want to find a company that has aligned itself with a major trend, has a clean story and knows what it wants to be when it grows up," said Jeff Bernstein, co-manager of the ING Midcap Opportunities fund. He is based in New York with ING Investments, a unit of ING, the Dutch investment bank.
Investing in a technology stock today requires "stepping back and looking at the whole landscape to see where dollars are being spent right now," said Hank Hagey, an analyst on the technology team of Citigroup Asset Management.
Mercator has been hurt by the fact that companies have not been spending heavily on information technology, acknowledged Kenneth J. Hall, its chief financial officer. "We can't control how long the information technology recession will last," Mr. Hall said. "But we can control our costs and cash flow to weather these times and do enough research and development to be in a strong position to recapture revenues" when higher spending resumes.
Now run by a management team hired in January 2001, Mercator raised $16 million cash from private investors in December and reduced its work force by 29 percent. It cut its negative cash flow from operations to $650,000 in the first quarter from $8.1 million in the year-earlier period. The time that its customers take to pay bills, an important consideration for tech companies, has fallen to 63 days, on average, from 107.
Carl Palmieri, a private investor who runs a computer distribution company in Bridgeport, Conn., said he started buying Mercator stock 18 months ago; in that time, the stock once dropped to 95 cents a share. Mr. Palmieri said that he now owns 44,000 shares and that he expects to buy an additional 20,000 in the next month.
"I've played with technology stocks in the past, but I think at this point there are software stocks that are undervalued, especially in system integration, which is still in its infancy," he said. He is impressed, he added, with Mercator's client list, which includes I.B.M., Nestle and major health care and banking companies.
THE stock rallied briefly to $10.15 in January, but much of its recent fall can be attributed to the company's declining revenue, which slipped to $27.4 million in the first quarter of 2002 from $28.7 million in the period last year.
Many investors remain on the sidelines. "There are investors who have recognized and appreciated what management has done, and others who are disappointed because of the year-over-year revenues," Mr. Hall, the chief financial officer, said.
Across the sector, revenues may not improve substantially until corporate technology spending ramps up. Analysts like Mr. Hagey have been assessing whether the prices of individual stocks already reflect expectations of future returns. They are also looking closely at balance sheets. "We want to see killer balance sheets because we don't know when an investment is going to work," said John Morosani, a managing director at ING Furman Selz Capital Management in New York, a private asset management arm of ING. Mr. Morosani focuses on small-capitalization value stocks. "If a company's not making money," he said, "we want something where there's so much cash, it can survive for a few years."
Among companies with adequate cash reserves, he said, are Ultratech Stepper, a leader in technology to solder wires to microchips in flat panel displays and mobile communication devices. Its shares, which he owns in client accounts, are at $15.05, down from a 52-week high of $26.56; he said he has paid an average of $16.80. The company has $7.50 a share in cash, he said.
Similarly, Forrester Research, a technology consulting company in Cambridge, Mass., is trading at $19.98, down more than 60 percent in the last two years, but has almost $9 a share in cash, he said.
In the case of Ultratech, he said the company's technology, which allows thinner products to be made, gave it a competitive edge in its field. It already holds a 90 percent market share in one important business and 60 percent in another, he said.
"When people say 'never' about these stocks, you know it's wrong but you don't know how long it's going to take," he said. With enough cash to weather a downturn, he said, "as long as the company is retaining its position in the industry, it'll be there when the cycle turns."
Some analysts say they can differentiate between cyclical stocks and the boom-and-bust darlings of the past bull market.
Mr. Bernstein, whose fund is down 5.7 percent this year, versus an average of 7 percent for its peer group, said semiconductor and semiconductor equipment stocks had always been predictably cyclical and had reached a market bottom. "They always get overdone at the top of markets and overdone on the bottom," he said. "But in an up cycle, chip prices don't comes down for a couple of years. In a down cycle, it's very painful. At the bottom, you can't figure out what could possibly go right." His fund holds two stocks in those areas, Fairchild Semiconductor and Lam Research.
Shares of chip companies have risen from September lows but have not taken off. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange's semiconductor index is down 4.3 percent for the year and has had some gyrations.
MR. HAGEY says the technology stocks that will probably recover first have products that help corporate customers improve productivity from their present computer systems. "In this environment, the big theme is maximizing the current infrastructure to squeeze more value out of it," he said, pointing to companies that focus on storing and managing data across computer systems.
Mr. Bernstein likes stocks with an old-fashioned commodity: earnings. "In the early days, investors couldn't value tech stocks on earnings so they had to pay some multiple of a company's sales," he said. "They're not going to do that anymore. That's a concept from four years ago that stopped working two years ago."
Some portfolio managers, though, are sticking with the sector's biggest names. "It's a Darwinian story developing, where the biggest and best companies can continue to spend on research and development, and it can be very scary for competitors," said Michael F. Holland, the manager of the Holland Balanced fund in New York. He said that his fund, down 4.3 percent for the year, has "suffered" because it has held onto I.B.M., Microsoft and Intel but that he believes these stocks will lead a recovery.
Other investors are avoiding prominent technology companies -- like Cisco Systems, Sun Microsystems and EMC. Mr. Bernstein, for one, said he believes that they are too mature to benefit as much as some smaller companies when the sector recovers. "When their businesses come back, their growth rates aren't going to be that exciting," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kenneth J. Hall, left, and other executives of Mercator Software discussed its business plan last week. Its stock traded at almost $150 in early 2000; it is now at $2.35. (Joseph Kugielsky for The New York Times) Chart: "Awaiting a Rebound"Shares of many small technology companies, like Mercator Software, have lagged behind bigger tech stocks and the overall market. Graph shows the S. & P. 500 INDEX and the NASDAQ 100 STOCK INDEX as compared to MERCATOR SOFTWARE since January 2002. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); CASH FLOW (88%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); INVESTOR RELATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (74%); BONDS (73%); MARKET SHARE (70%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; STOCKS AND BONDS; RESEARCH 

COMPANY: ING GROEP NV (92%); CITIGROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: MERCATOR SOFTWARE INC 

TICKER: INGA (BIT) (92%); INGA (AMS) (92%); ING (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: COLARUSSO, DAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (57%) CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



638 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Do 401(k)'s Give Workers An Illusion Of Wealth?

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
IN the long economic expansions of the 1980's and 90's, the wealth of middle Americans seemed to rise. Their stock portfolios and home ownership gave them the appearance of growing richer. But now it turns out that net worth went down, not up.
 That is disheartening, and counter-intuitive. After all, middle Americans did benefit from stock portfolios and homes, increasing their wealth as these assets rose in value. Yet add in all the other forms of household wealth, as Edward N. Wolff, a New York University economist, does, and balance sheets change for the worse. 
 The main culprit is shrinking pension wealth, although it is not alone. Rising debt, particularly mortgage debt and home equity loans, also took back from wealth what rising home prices had conferred. There is stealth in the damage. People focus on the balances in their 401(k) accounts, for example, and fail to realize that company-paid pensions, now gradually disappearing, would have made them wealthier than saving on their own for retirement.
Not noticing the deterioration in their wealth, they even substitute 401(k) accounts for other forms of savings, putting money in one pot while removing it from another.
"I think the 401(k) is a real scam," Mr. Wolff said. "People get their monthly statements and they say, 'Wow, look at how much money is in my 401(k),' and they don't see what has disappeared."
Let's be clear who we mean by middle Americans. They are not the 20 percent of all households whose breadwinners are paid $75,000 a year or more. Those households have increased their total wealth since 1983, the starting point of Mr. Wolff's study. Many have never been richer. That is not the case for the median household, with an annual income of $50,000 or so.
Refine the households even more. Consider those whose breadwinners are 47 to 64, old enough to have accumulated wealth. Add up their wealth from all sources -- stocks, bonds, homes, pensions, savings accounts -- as Mr. Wolff has done.
He calculates that the median wealth was $162,800 in 1998, the last year for which government wealth data is available. Adjusted for inflation, the same calculation for that age group in 1983 produced $188,100 in wealth at the median. (Half the households had more, half less.) That is a 13.5 percent decline in wealth, and the loss was similar for almost all the households with annual incomes of $35,000 to $75,000, Mr. Wolff found.
The middle class in America is defined by this income range. Nearly 35 percent of households qualify. Their wealth, after falling from 1983 to 1998, has at best leveled off since then, given the stock market sell-off and the recession.
How would Mr. Wolff reverse the loss? "The most desirable thing may be to re-establish the old defined-benefit pension system," he said, referring to the company-funded pensions that guarantee fixed annual benefit payments in retirement.
Among middle-income households, the breadwinners in 42.4 percent had defined-benefit pension plans in 1998, down from 68.9 percent in 1983. But the number of 401(k) accounts, a k a defined-contribution plans, soared. Some 69.2 percent of households had them in 1998, up from 7.4 percent in 1983. 
MR. WOLFF, a recognized expert in wealth and income, is not without challengers. Some say that his definition of net worth leaves out the value of a family's cars, or that the survey data of 1983 and 1998 are dissimilar enough to flaw comparisons. Others question his calculation of the present value of future pensions.
Mr. Wolff contends, for example, that a 50-year-old expecting a $20,000 annual company pension at the age of 65, and suddenly forced to fund it himself, would have to have accumulated $200,000 in savings by now. Ergo, a $20,000 future company pension represents $200,000 in present wealth. The 401(k) savings of households in the 47-to-64 age group, in contrast, average only $69,000.
But for Mr. Wolff's $200,000 to make sense, said Eric Engen, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, "you have to assume that people don't change employers and they collect the promised pension over enough years."
Whatever the caveats, Mr. Wolff's main point is now widely accepted: The swing from company-guaranteed pensions to 401(k)-style plans has definitely lessened wealth -- and also relieved employers of billions of dollars in pension obligations.
"You cannot simply dismiss Wolff's findings," Mr. Engen said.
Stagnant wages, the rising cost of education, divorce, layoffs -- all these and more help to explain why household wealth is shrinking. The heartbreak, however, lies in the self-delusion that silences protest. Mesmerized by 401(k)'s, too many households fail to notice what's missing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (93%); US 401K PLANS (93%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (90%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOME PRICES (76%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (75%); PERSONAL DEBT (75%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); BONDS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (69%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; WOLFF, EDWARD N 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



639 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
The Test Is When the Going Gets Tough

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM J. HOLSTEIN 

 BODY:
 LAWRENCE A. BOSSIDY contends that too many chief executives do not know how to make their organizations deliver results. In an interview, he explained that view -- and what should be done to improve corporate governance.
 WILLIAM J. HOLSTEIN

Q. Some of your suggestions are basic management advice, yet you say American business leaders need your book to execute better. Why?

A. Two things happened. First, when economies are growing rapidly as they were in the mid-1990's, it was less challenging to run a business. You could get away with a lot of errors. But as growth diminishes and global competition intensifies, the question of execution becomes more important. We forget what it takes to run the basics.
Second, people got promoted in that rapid growth environment and were able to excel. But when it turns to a difficult economic environment, they're not nearly as capable.

Q. Why do some chief executives appear out of touch with their own businesses?

A. I don't know they're out of touch any more than they used to be. It's just that the demands on them are higher. The market is more demanding, and even their own employees are more demanding. It's more difficult and challenging to be a C.E.O. than ever before.

Q. What happened to Richard A. McGinn at Lucent?

A. He was an appealing person and a persuasive guy. But he was spending most of his time in the external environment. He didn't have his hands on what was happening inside.

Q. You wrote that AT&T, under C. Michael Armstrong, was out of touch with both internal and external realities. What happened?

A. He put together a strategy that required each link to work. If one didn't work, the rest of the strategy would fall apart. Armstrong is a decent guy, but this book was an effort to get the issues before other people to help them.

Q. You seem skeptical of chief executives who bill themselves as intellectuals. Why?

A. I'm not against people who are smart. That's one of the requirements to be successful. We all want smart people working for us. But you have to be more than smart. You have to translate your ideas and concepts into reality. If you can't make that transition, chances of success are limited.

Q. Do you think that chief executives have an image problem after the episodes involving Enron, Global Crossing and the like?

A. I do. The C.E.O.'s were probably overemphasized in their importance and significance in the 90's. The opposite is occurring now. Just as the period of the 90's when they got extolled came to an end, this period will pass, too.

Q. Can you believe that Kenneth L. Lay simply didn't know what was happening inside Enron?

A. Whatever happened down there, he wasn't as close as he should have been.

Q. It seems some chief executives are doing things that just aren't ethical. Do you agree?

A. I think there are some these days and there always have been. The American governance system is better than any other in the world by a factor of 10. There will be incidents over time. I'm not denying that there aren't issues before us now, but when you look at the issue over time, I don't think that ethics is a significant issue.

Q. How would you tweak our corporate governance to spot problems earlier?

A. In the first instance, you have to make sure the people running the enterprise are highly ethical. In declining-company situations, when the executives are out selling options and the employees can't, that's got to stop. I think that will happen.

Q. What about the idea of consulting and auditing at the same time?

A. That ought to stop.

Q. Are boards doing their jobs?

A. On boards, audit committees ought to stay more involved so they know what's going on in a company. But they only know what management tells them. To look at them as the last bastion isn't right. At the end of the day, management has to know how to reach for results without going over the ethical barrier. Yes, we can do some things in corporate governance to make it better. Our system isn't perfect. And it needs to be reinforced from time to time.

Q. Is high compensation part of the chief executive's image problem?

A. There was very little question of compensation of C.E.O.'s when they had rapidly growing share prices and shareholders were being rewarded. But it's wrong when heavy rewards are given when the stock price is not going forward. If you match compensation with results, you're not going to be subjected to a lot of questions.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bossidy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); LITERATURE (71%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: BOSSIDY, LAWRENCE A; HOLSTEIN, WILLIAM J 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: EXECUTION: THE DISCIPLINE OF GETTING THINGS DONE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



640 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH/James R. Norris and Michael M. Meyer; 
C & B Mid Cap Value Portfolio

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
CASH flow is the ultimate measure of the value of a business, say James R. Norris and Michael M. Meyer, co-managers of the $31 million C & B Mid Cap Value Portfolio.
 "Cash flow from the business should keep pace with its earnings," Mr. Meyer said from their office in Charlotte, N.C. "Otherwise, it's an indication that management is using accounting shenanigans to prop up the company's earnings." 
 The fund returned 23.6 percent a year, on average, for the three years through Thursday, compared with 8 percent for its group of midcap value funds and a loss of 5 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, according to Morningstar Inc. It returned 21.4 percent in the last 12 months, versus 3.3 percent for its group and a 13.8 percent decline in the S.& P. 500. 
Mr. Norris, 43, and Mr. Meyer, 36, work for Cooke & Bieler L.P. in Philadelphia, the fund's adviser; it manages about $2.1 billion for institutions and individuals. 
The managers search for the fund's 30 to 50 stocks among roughly 1,800 United States companies with market capitalizations of $500 million to $5 billion. They sum up their strategy as the "three C's of investing": conservatively run companies with high levels of cash flow and strong competitive advantages.
To find conservative management, they look for low levels of debt. The ratio of debt to total capitalization for the portfolio companies is 26 percent, versus 40 percent for the Russell Midcap Value index.
Other indications of a conservative approach, Mr. Meyer said, are solid, realistic plans for the future growth of the business and effective reinvestment of capital in business operations, share buybacks, dividend payments or acquisitions.
Cash flow, Mr. Norris said, should be high relative to a company's sales and should grow consistently -- ideally, over the last 10 years. Competitive advantages, Mr. Meyer said, can be found in brand loyalty, economies of scale, proprietary products or patents, low-cost production and breadth of product lines or distribution.
The fund aims to buy companies that sell for discounts of 40 percent or more to its estimate of their worth -- a calculation of the present value of the company's projected earnings and cash flow for the next 10 years. They sell shares that achieve what they consider full value, or when the company's competitive advantage erodes.
In March, the managers bought shares of Dionex, a Sunnyvale, Calif., manufacturer of equipment used for ion chromatography, a technology for evaluating impurities in liquids. The fund paid $24.50, on average; the stock now trades at $25.88, compared with what they estimate as an intrinsic value of $40 a share. Dionex holds important patents, Mr. Norris said, and its high recurring revenue has created positive free cash flow every year in the last decade.
Another company with strong cash flow is the Pall Corporation, an East Hills, N.Y., maker of filters for industrial, commercial and medical applications. The managers paid $19.69 for the stock, on average, starting in March. It closed on Friday at $23.05; the managers' estimate it is worth $30 a share. Pall's acquisition of the filtration business of the United States Filter Corporation will add to debt, but cash flow should cover interest payments, Mr. Meyer said.
The managers also like Parametric Technology, a Needham, Mass., maker of mechanical design software. The company has a secure market position, Mr. Norris said, because of the high costs of retraining engineers on new software products. The company is rolling out software that lets companies coordinate product design among farflung offices. This new software business should turn profitable in the next two years, he said, adding, "the share price is very cheap relative to the core business, and we get the new business for free."
They bought shares in April, paying $4.74, on average. The stock closed on Friday at $3.40, compared with an estimated intrinsic value of $13 a share.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael M. Meyer, left, and James R. Norris look for what they call the three C's: conservatively run companies with high cash flow and strong competitive advantages. (Gerry Broome for The New York Times) Chart: "C&B Mid Cap Value"Category: Midcap valueNet assets: $31 millionInception: February 1998Manager: James R. Norris and Michael M. Meyer since June 1998Minimum purchase: $500 ($2,000 I.R.A.)Portfolio turnover: 44%3-year annualized return through Thursday: 23.6%Category average: 8.0% Sector breakdown Industrials: 26%Other: 22%Services: 16%Consumer staples: 13%Finance: 12%Retail: 11% Fees Front-end load: NoneDeferred load: None12b-1 fee: NoneExpense ratio: 1.40% (Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); CASH FLOW (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MFG (85%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INSTRUMENTS MFG (85%); PATENTS (85%); CONSERVATISM (78%); DIVIDENDS (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); BONDS (77%); BRAND EQUITY (73%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (69%); BRANDING (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (70%); DIONEX CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: C & B MID CAP VALUE PORTFOLIO 

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (70%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3826 LABORATORY ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENTS (51%)

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; NORRIS, JAMES R; MEYER, MICHAEL M 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (51%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (75%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



641 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: All Fronts; 
Getting More Than One Step Ahead of an Attack

BYLINE:  By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
FORGET, for the moment, what we knew and when we knew it. Assume that we knew it all -- and even, by some miracle, had kept hijackers with boxcutters from turning airliners into missiles. Where would the United States be now in the fight against global terrorism?
 "I have no question in my mind that had it not been for 9/11 -- and I'd do anything if it hadn't happened -- that it would have been business as usual," said Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California. "It took that real attack, I think, to kind of shiver our timbers enough to let us know that the threat is profound, that we have to do some things that historically we have not wanted to do to protect ourselves." 
 No one would argue that there was anything good about the Sept. 11 attacks, or that gaps in intelligence were desirable. But what now seems clear is that before the attacks, neither American politicians nor the public were mobilized for the kind of fight that both now see as necessary.
Even now, a range of experts in and outside of government warn, Washington and the world are struggling with how to devise a strategy to pre-empt the rise of terrorist organizations and fight their members root and branch, not just stop them at the gates of airports, the mouths of harbors or the perimeters of nuclear power plants and biological laboratories.
"We're moving in bits and pieces, but nowhere near enough," said Joseph S. Nye Jr. the dean of the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard. He said that after American military power toppled the Taliban, people could say, "Look, Afghanistan proves the new unilateralism works." But, he added, "What did we do? We toppled a weak government, the Taliban. We did not wrap up Al Qaeda, which has cells in 50 countries and threatens us still, and requires intense, civilian cooperation with other governments around the world to fight."
Most experts agree that the fight must range from new efforts at sharing intelligence and tracking bank accounts abroad, to cracking down on loopholes in student visas and border controls. Some of that is underway, but much remains to be done.
"I think the most important single step that we could have taken, had not taken, that we still need to take, is a change in mindset," said Philip Bobbitt, a professor at the University of Texas and a former national security official in the Carter White House. He said the recent Congressional effort to block the Bush administration's cancellation of the high-tech Crusader artillery program, designed for a conventional military threat like the old Soviet Union, showed the endurance of conventional thinking. "The biggest single thing you have to do is think," he said. "You have to change the way you think, and you can't buy that off the shelf."
Indeed, since the current debate over intelligence miscues began, there has been a drumbeat of warnings from top officials that further terrorist attacks, even a nuclear one, are all but inevitable. That suggests little confidence that even the best intelligence, by itself, can prevent all attacks.
Judgments like that, and the debate over might-have-beens, evoke Pearl Harbor. But the most important parallel may be that Pearl Harbor awakened an isolationist America to the global reach of military aggression by nation-states. And that inspired the United States to base its entire post-World War II defense structure on international diplomatic and military alliances, and on vast international economic aid plans, that would contain the next great military threat, from Soviet Communism.
Now Sept. 11 has created a challenge of similar scale: reinventing collective-security arrangements and the whole structure of international cooperation so they can work against shadowy international networks and rogue freelancers who play by no known rules. 
As one government official put it, after foiling a terrorist plot to plant a bomb in Los Angeles at the turn of the millennium, "We said, 'Good for us, we did it!' assuming we could foil more in the future." But after Sept. 11, the official said, the conclusion has to be different: "You can't count on containment. You can't count on people coming around. Nowhere is too far away, and one way or another we've got to deal with it. That's what the president applied by saying 'axis of evil' and talking about the threat of weapons of mass destruction, and saying problems don't fester, they get taken care of."
That is easier said than done. Even Washington's closest European allies have voiced deep skepticism about the urgency of confronting Saddam Hussein's Iraq, and complained bitterly about the Bush administration's willingness to largely bypass even the North Atlantic Treaty Organization's offers of help in the Afghan campaign in favor of selective use of allies' forces.
"A great deal of what needs to be done now in terms of prevention and pre-emption necessarily needs to be done cooperatively," said Samuel R. Berger, national security adviser in the second Clinton term. "Even what we're doing in the Philippines and Indonesia and Jordan is inherently cooperative. International intelligence cooperation has been increasing in recent years but it may require a quantum leap in new arrangements from where we are."
At home, the public has been asked to put up with longer lines at airports, but not with true sacrifices like new taxes or the peacetime draft of the cold war.
Former Senator Warren Rudman of New Hampshire, a Republican who was co-chairman of a presidential commission that urged top priority for defense against terrorist attacks on American soil, acknowledged that the warning was ignored because it seemed remote. "The American people never would have understood the nature of this threat if this hadn't happened," he said. "You have to see horror up close." 
EVEN now, Professor Bobbitt said, debate about intelligence failures misses an important point.
"It's true we are not well organized for this kind of war, and the reason is not because we're clumsy or stupid," he said. "We're not organized because we don't want to be. In the last 100 years, we have had a great record of success protecting our national security when it was threatened by some of the most ferocious powers on earth, without really sacrificing our open society. We don't want the F.B.I. to talk to the C.I.A. We don't want the National Security Agency listening in on the conversations of American citizens. We don't want prosecutorial information shared with nonprosecutors.
"And as a result," he added, "we have designed a system that is not functional for this fight."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sometimes it takes a catastrophic attack to galvanize a nation. Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7, 1941. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); HIJACKING (90%); TALIBAN (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); AIRPORTS (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); AIRLINES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); AL-QAEDA (72%); BORDER CONTROL (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (68%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (64%); POWER PLANTS (64%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (64%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD WAR II (1939-45); BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; PUBLIC OPINION 

PERSON: DIANNE FEINSTEIN (57%); JIMMY CARTER (54%) PURDUM, TODD S 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) PEARL HARBOR (HAWAII)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



642 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: All Fronts: Nuclear Poker; 
At the Brink in Kashmir

BYLINE:  By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

 BODY:
TO the knotty complications that have helped make the India-Pakistan face-off over Kashmir the world's scariest crisis, the United States' war on terror has become yet one more devilish twist.
 Beset with weak governments that have both tried to use the showdown over Kashmir to bolster their own domestic standing, and egged on by strident nationalists who speak in the stark terms of holy war, the two countries are now locked in a brinkmanship where the slightest misstep could produce a nuclear war. 
 More than just eyeball to eyeball, South Asia's bitter neighbors have also been watching the United States intently, each seeking to assess how Washington's antiterror campaign in Afghanistan affects the other. The danger, as they have done so, is that the perverse readings that each side brings to the subject can inspire the deadly miscalculation. 
Since the two countries explicitly became the third world's first nuclear rivals in April 1998, when India and then Pakistan conducted test explosions, there has been much hopeful talk in the region about a new era of stability -- its own version of mutually assured destruction would supposedly ensure that neither country would dare start another war.
Such thinking seems to have been misplaced to begin with because, in addition to the irresponsibility of soldiers and politicians, South Asia's instability derives from the asymmetry of its two largest nations. With a billion people, India dwarfs Pakistan in almost every measure, including troops and conventional arms. Under the circumstances, the nuclear option will always be a tempting, if illusory, survival card for Pakistani generals.
In the present crisis, India has packed its portion of the divided Kashmir region with an estimated 700,000 troops, and has spoken in ever more belligerent tones about punishing Pakistan for backing an armed insurgency there. Yet Pakistan's elite has lulled itself until the last few days with the thought that New Delhi would not dare attack because it would upset Washington's antiterror agenda.
"India's relationship with Washington has acquired a real depth, it has become strategic and not just tactical, like Pakistan's," said Mushahid Hussain, a former Pakistani information minister. "Because of that, people felt that India couldn't possibly start a war. They were taken by surprise by India's sudden raising of the temperature, and only now are we awakening from the slumber."
Islamabad's awakening since late last week has brought repeated calls for India to accept a dialogue, increasingly explicit promises not to give military aid to separatists, plus an offer to place international observers for the Kashmiri Line of Control that separates the two countries' armies. 
It is worth remembering that Indian-Pakistani relations have always proceeded by crisis. Pressure mounts inexorably, most often around the zero-sum game of divided Kashmir. The countries have fought two wars over this issue and have lived through countless mini-crises. Somehow, in the end, the pressure has always dissipated before the point of catastrophe, and that could happen now too.
Nevertheless, through most of the week India continued to ratchet up the pressure, complaining that Washington was merely trying to keep a lid on things rather than force its traditional client and vital partner in the campaign against Al Qaeda to permanently sever arms supplies and training for Kashmir's Muslim separatists.
President Bush may have dreamed of a world of moral clarity after the terrorist attacks in the United States, but the crisis in South Asia, like the one in the Middle East, has shown how futile it is to expect people to abandon their own deep and bitter animosities and subscribe wholeheartedly to Washington's still rather abstract call to fight evil as America defines it.
For both India and Pakistan, instead, Sept. 11 has provided a historic opportunity to try to redefine relations with Washington. India saw President Bush's stark with-us-or-against-us language about terrorism as a chance to cast Kashmir's deep complexities in simple black and white. For India, the terror tactics of the separatists who attacked the Indian parliament in December and struck again two weeks ago, killing 35 people in Kashmir, is the only serious issue.
Lost amid India's muscular post-Sept. 11 opportunism, critics of India point out, is that many in overwhelmingly Muslim Kashmir strongly resent Indian rule; that India has never allowed a free and fair vote by Kashmiris on self-determination; and that India itself has long engaged in human rights abuses to keep control of Kashmir.
Pakistan's military government, meanwhile, saw in Sept. 11 a chance to arrest the long-term deterioration in its relationship with Washington. Islamabad has repeatedly been subjected to arms embargoes by the United States, suspicion over its sponsorship of terrorism and relationships with radical Islamic causes. By making the painful decision to abandon its longtime client the Taliban, and by allowing the American military access to Pakistani territory to pursue remnants of Al Qaeda, President Pervez Musharraf was calculating that Washington would reward Pakistan on many levels, none more important than a sympathetic hearing on the Kashmir issue.
To critics of his government, Mr. Musharraf's bet looks increasingly like a replay of the wager made during the war in the 1980's against the Soviet Union in Afghanistan, when Pakistan became the main conduit for a huge American program of assistance to anti-Soviet guerrilla fighters. Then, too, Islamabad's help failed to win it decisive support from Washington over Kashmir. 
Then as now, Pakistan's cause was hurt by its own lack of democracy and its penchant for resorting to violence to achieve its aims in Kashmir.
THAT suspicion and frustrations toward the United States are rife in both countries is not surprising, given the fact that a major realignment of Washington's diplomatic positions in the region has been under way since the end of the cold war.
"Pakistan may be the U.S. ally but India pulls more weight in Washington," wrote Hussain Haqqani, a commentator in The Nation, a Pakistani publication. "With the end of the cold war, American suspicions of a nonaligned India with close ties to the Soviet Union have dissipated. India's economic reforms have moved the country away from its quasi-socialist practices, opening a huge market of one billion potential consumers to U.S. businesses. From the U.S. point of view, Pakistan may be America's wartime ally, but it is India that offers the prospect of long-term friendship."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Full alert: standing guard last week in Srinagar, the capital of India-held Kashmir. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. 1); Pakistani soldiers manning an anti-aircraft gun last week on the coast near Karachi. (Associated Press)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ARMIES (78%); TERRORISM (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%) ATOMIC WEAPONS 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) KASHMIR (98%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (79%) INDIA (98%); ASIA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); SOUTHERN ASIA (91%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) INDIA; PAKISTAN; KASHMIR AND JAMMU

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



643 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer; 
Forget Roger Clemens and Mike Piazza. Ronaldo Is the Star.

BYLINE:  By ANDRES MARTINEZ 

 BODY:
The world's biggest sporting event is so close that it's getting hard to focus on anything else. The bulk of humanity, though not most Americans, would agree. Soccer's World Cup kicks off this Friday, and it will be played throughout the month of June in South Korea and Japan. 
 I have developed a formula to quantify World Cup fanaticism in countries from China to Brazil for Americans who are not part of soccer's Fifth Column. First add the collective passion in this country for baseball, basketball and football. Then multiply it by four (the Cup happens only every four years), and add the intensity of patriotic fervor unleashed by your average war. Now you can begin to appreciate why beating the English in their June 7 first-round showdown may be as important to Argentines as resolving their nation's dire financial crisis. 
 Growing up in Mexico, a soccer-crazed nation, the World Cup provided my childhood's most vivid punctuation marks. As an 8-year-old during the 1974 Cup, I got an early lesson in cold war realities when my father explained to me why we had to root for the Federal Republic, better known as West Germany, instead of the nicer-sounding Democratic Republic when the two Germanies squared off against each other.
Four years later, Argentina was the host of the Cup, and there weren't enough hours in the day for my friends and I to replicate the feats of top players like Argentina's Mario Kempes -- the striker renowned as much for his sideburns as for his goal-scoring prowess -- in our backyards. The sight of all those armed soldiers on the sidelines was unnerving, but only years later would I realize that this World Cup had been a showcase for a dictatorship that waged a brutal war against its own society. Johan Cruyff, the Dutchman who was one of the greatest players of all time, skipped the tournament, partly to make a political statement. 
The 1982 World Cup in Spain brought the debut of Diego Maradona, Argentina's mercurial star; the first breakthrough performance by an African nation, Cameroon; and an epic semifinal battle between France and Germany.
For New York City, World Cups can be an awkward time, a rare instance when the city's claim to be the world's capital is belied by the uneven level of interest in the matches.
"We are so far removed from this global festival here," laments Inocencio Arias, Spain's ambassador to the United Nations, who just wrote a book about the Real Madrid, Spain's most venerable team. I agree -- though otherwise adjusted to American society, I feel as if I've been exiled to the ends of the earth every four years. Most of my colleagues will still be talking about the Mets and the Yankees during the World Cup. 
FIFA, soccer's governing body, understands that it is in a race with American-driven sports to win over the hearts and minds of spectators around the world. It's Michael Jordan vs. Ronaldo, Brazil's iconic star. That is one reason the World Cup is being held in Asia, a relative newcomer to the game.
Curiously, American multinationals are aiding soccer's cause. Nike now spends more on soccer endorsements (including an astonishing half-billion-dollar deal with Manchester United) than it does on basketball, and no sponsor is more closely identified with World Cups than Coca-Cola. 
From foreign bankers on Wall Street -- Goldman, Sachs recently published a research note on the economies of each World Cup participant as well as the state of their national teams -- to the undocumented workers cutting flowers at the corner deli, the World Cup will provide a sleep-depriving bond for a broad swath of New York's immigrant communities. The fact that game times will range from 2:30 a.m. to 7:30 a.m. won't keep people from cramming into South American restaurants in Jackson Heights and other ex-pat haunts around the city, like Zum Schneider, the self-styled "Bavarian Indoor Biergarten" in the East Village.
Zum Schneider asked customers whether it should show the German games live or tape-delayed at a more civilized hour. Live, was the overwhelming response, which means the Schneiders will sell record amounts of coffee. In Europe, some countries are allowing bars to adopt East Asian hours for the World Cup so they can serve alcoholic beverages during the matches. 
An Ecuadorean who tends to the sidewalk flowers from 8 at night until 8 in the morning at an East Side deli told me the other day that he feels miserable at having to miss out on "the most important thing to ever happen in Ecuador," a first-time participant.
His world rarely overlaps with that of his Korean employers, with whom he can barely communicate. But inside the store, one of the owners also complains about having to miss most of the games because he, too, works through the night. Each man also worries that his team won't make it into the second round. I hate to tell them, but they're right. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SOCCER (90%); FESTIVALS (78%); COLD WAR (77%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); BASEBALL (73%); BASKETBALL (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%) SOCCER; WORLD CUP (SOCCER); EDITORIALS 

PERSON: MARTINEZ, ANDRES 

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARGENTINA (94%); GERMANY (92%); BRAZIL (92%); JAPAN (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (92%); SPAIN (91%); FRANCE (79%); CAMEROON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



644 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Public Schooling for Profit 

 BODY:
The for-profit education movement got under way a decade ago when ambitious entrepreneurs became convinced that they could succeed where public educators had failed and make money in the bargain. Ten years later, Edison Schools Inc., the largest for-profit company in the business, has yet to find its way into the black. After a bruising battle to get control of schools in Philadelphia, Edison is struggling financially and besieged by critics who argue that the company has overstated its academic performance. The decline in Edison's fortunes is attributable in part to questionable management and overly rapid expansion. But the broader message may be that there is no quick, profitable way to turn around schools. 
 That seems to be the case in Michigan, where a liberal charter-school law has attracted more than 40 commercial companies, which manage about three-quarters of the more than 180 charter schools that dot the state. A series of recent reports by Western Michigan University's Evaluation Center revealed that these ostensibly public for-profit schools were increasingly resembling private schools in terms of their admissions and public information policies. 
 The Michigan for-profit schools have discouraged the enrollment of disadvantaged and disabled students, presumably because they cost more to educate. The for-profit companies boasted of improved student performance in their ads and year-end reports but often refused to make public the test scores that would support their claims.
Data from Michigan and several other states suggests that failing schools do not improve as a consequence of for-profit management and that commercially run public schools often perform no better than other public schools. Increasing awareness of that data has prompted districts to write tough contracts that let them fire education companies that do not meet specific performance targets.
This heightened scrutiny comes at a bad time for Edison, which was still struggling to reach profitability when the Securities and Exchange Commission announced that the company had provided inaccurate information about its revenue and maintained inadequate financial records. The announcement, combined with a history of red ink, further hurt the company's public image.
Edison has long insisted that its fortunes would improve with "economies of scale." The flaw here is that renovating schools, buying computers and training teachers remain expensive, no matter how many times you do it. Some experts argue that economies of scale do not exist in education, especially in a charter system, where schools are meant to vary in focus and size. In addition, the costs of managing large systems have proved to be high.
Edison's fortunes show that there is no cheap way to rescue failing schools and that the prospect of a swift turnaround and explosive educational progress was a mirage all along. The only way to improve public education is to provide every child with a bright, well-trained teacher and an orderly, well-run school. That tends to be labor-intensive -- and expensive -- and may never be profitable on the scale that the stock market requires. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC SCHOOLS (91%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (88%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); CONTRACTS LAW (75%); LIBERALISM (74%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (59%); DISABLED PERSONS (51%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; CHARTER SCHOOLS; EDITORIALS 

COMPANY: EDISONLEARNING INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: WESTERN MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY (56%) EDISON SCHOOLS INC 

INDUSTRY: NAICS611110 ELEMENTARY & SECONDARY SCHOOLS (91%); SIC8211 ELEMENTARY & SECONDARY SCHOOLS (91%) SIC8211 ELEMENTARY & SECONDARY SCHOOLS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



645 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1346 words

HEADLINE: Fuel Rods and Brass Tacks; 
Reality Overtakes Rhetoric in Nuclear Power Debate

BYLINE:  By KIRK JOHNSON 

DATELINE: BUCHANAN, N.Y., May 23 

 BODY:
For many years, the argument over the Indian Point nuclear power plant here in New York City's northern suburbs was one of the great evergreens of Northeastern environmentalism. It could always be counted on and it never really changed. The positions on both sides, repeated by rote for decades, became a liturgy that was sure to inflame passions without much risk of anything actually happening as a result.
 One side said that the plant was unsafe because residents could not be easily evacuated in the event of an emergency, and that its owners were incompetent. The other side said that the reactors were vital to the power grid and that opponents were overwrought and emotional. September's terrorist attacks added a new note to the chorus, but left the strident rhetoric largely intact. 
 That dynamic is changing. Now, a conversation about Indian Point is likely to drift toward the economic fallout from Enron. People who oppose the plant have also begun to lay out specific horse trades they might be willing to make. Some environmentalists say, for instance, that more air pollution and so-called greenhouse gas emissions, neither of which is a big issue in the case of nuclear power, would be a reasonable price if closing Indian Point meant that the region's old oil-burning plants -- many considered to be on their last legs -- had to keep running. Both sides are grinding out numbers and studies as never before. 
Other new variables have entered the picture as well, like the proposed Millennium Pipeline that would carry natural gas into the New York City area. Many residents in this part of New York vehemently oppose the pipeline, which is stalled by environmental and safety concerns. But both sides in the new plant debate concede that if nuclear power were taken out of the region's mix of energy-making fuels, natural gas would become more crucial than ever.
What has happened, energy experts say, is that the members of the Indian Point debate team -- supporters and opponents alike -- have been forced, in a way, to grow up. Although most environmentalists and industry officials say the odds are still long that the plant will close any time soon, playing "what if" is no longer the purely theoretical parlor game it once was, and that has made all the difference. Ideology and philosophy are out; nuts and bolts and real-world implications are in. 
"When you begin to think through the actual closing of a plant, a lot of issues come up," said Robert H. Socolow, a professor of mechanical and aerospace engineering at Princeton, who studies energy issues. "Some are nightmarish. They're all difficult." 
Certainly, security is still the driving force, especially in the last few weeks since the Bush administration issued a warning about a possible terrorist strike this summer on an American nuclear plant. And the shift toward practical terms and arguments does not make the positions any less sharp or passionately held. 
But it does alter the terrain. From its once-narrow base as an environmental issue, the question of nuclear power in New York City's backyard has expanded to envelop almost every aspect of how energy is bought, sold and distributed. Any discussion of electricity economics, energy conservation -- even the predictions about the length of the recession, which has reduced energy demand since fall -- eventually turns to Indian Point's twin brown domes on the banks of the Hudson River, 30 miles north of the George Washington Bridge.
Some of these new questions are huge and profound: do deregulated energy markets really work, and how exactly would they deal with something like the closing of Indian Point? Is there a threshold at which the potentially huge costs of decommissioning the plant would become too high for society, or the region's economy, to bear? 
Other questions are small and profound: should the added security costs needed to operate a nuclear plant be borne by the public or the industry? And if high security is a permanent new cost of business, is it still an economically efficient way to make electricity?
"Things are part of the mix now that never were before," said Jim Steets, a spokesman for the Entergy Corporation, the company based in New Orleans that owns and operates Indian Point. 
Among the most novel of the arguments in the new Indian Point playbook is that closing the plant might actually fix some things that are wrong with New York's electricity system, most of which have nothing at all to do with terrorist threats. 
One big issue in electricity economics right now is a money drought. Since the collapse of Enron last year, investors who are still bullish on power plant investments in New York have become about as hard to find as Manhattan parking spaces. Seven plants have received regulatory approval around the state, but only one is under construction and no one is sure how many will go forward. The answer, some people say, is to close Indian Point. 
Removing 2,000 megawatts from the system, plant opponents say -- enough to power about two million average homes -- would crimp the regional electricity supply and send a signal to Wall Street, which would see an opportunity to make money and so throw open the money spigot. The plants on the drawing board would be built and Indian Point's electricity gap, they say, would be resolved. Case closed.
"The loss of Indian Point Units 2 and 3 would allow market forces to essentially trump any Enron effect," said Alex Matthiessen, the executive director of Riverkeeper Inc., a nonprofit conservation group based in Garrison, N.Y., less than 10 miles from the plant. "It's essentially a supply-and-demand question."
Other experts say that such a mechanism might in fact work, as odd as it sounds, but that it would be a far more wrenching process than Mr. Matthiessen and other advocates suggest because the triggering event would not be the plant's closing, but the higher electricity prices that would result. Closing alone would not be enough.
"Price is the only signal the market understands," said Dr. Rajat K. Deb, the president of LCG Consulting, an energy advisory firm based in Los Altos, Calif. Dr. Deb said that high prices would also have to remain high for a long time to convince investors that they were not just a blip. "But then the question becomes whether that is politically sustainable when it starts hurting the economy and people lose jobs," he said.
Underlying all the possible plans for Indian Point is the question of time. Mr. Steets at Entergy said if the plant were to be shut down tomorrow, at least five years of cooling would be required before the radioactive fuel could be safely moved. During that time -- if not longer because of the uncertainties about long-term storage -- the plant would contribute no electricity, but might still be just as much of a terrorist target because of the fuel inside, so little would actually be gained, he said.
Plant opponents, on the other hand, say that there is in New York a window of opportunity that might not come again. A year ago, they say, when the news was filled with talk about the possibility of a California-style energy crisis descending on New York, the idea of taking Indian Point off-line would have been unthinkable. Then new emergency supplies were built in the city, and a recession, compounded by the World Trade Center attack, reduced demand. It's that temporary slack period, they argue, that must be seized.
The other trick, people involved in the debate say, is to calculate the risks in the new Indian Point equation -- specifically, which factors can be controlled and which cannot. If the air got dirtier from burning more oil or coal, what would that mean?
"There are in fact significant health risks from coal plant emissions -- they're chronic in nature, and they're serious, but nowhere near as serious as if Indian Point was attacked," said Daniel Rosenblum, a senior lawyer at the Pace Law School Energy Project, an advocacy group that works for sustainable energy and conservation. "And we can do things about coal plant emissions."

GRAPHIC: Photo (James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (92%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); EMISSIONS (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (78%); TERRORISM (74%); MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (72%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (69%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); AIR POLLUTION (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (66%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (66%); ENGINEERING (63%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; INDIAN POINT NUCLEAR POWER PLANT (NY); TERRORISM; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; ATOMIC ENERGY; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



646 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1583 words

HEADLINE: Romance, in Cosmo's World, Is Translated in Many Ways 

BYLINE:  By DAVID CARR 

 BODY:
Forty magazine editors came from all over the world to a conference room in the TriBeCa Grand Hotel in Lower Manhattan last week searching for thoroughly American alchemy. They sat quietly, even reverently, waiting for that one white-hot piece of the puzzle that would put their magazine over the top. Before them stood Kate White, the editor in chief of the American version of Cosmopolitan. In their world, she is a demigoddess, the editor of a mothership with a circulation of 2.76 million.
 Power Point slide No. 9 clicked into place: "What's Hot Now: Beefcake." 
 Ms. White paused so that the women, all of whom edit international versions of Cosmo, could absorb the deep implications of the trend, along with the impressive nearly naked male on the screen. 
"You need portfolios that show hunky-looking guys," Ms. White said finally.
Ferocious scribbling ensued.
And no wonder. Each of the editors is intent on bringing Cosmo's tangy fusion of sex and empowerment to their homelands, and Hearst Magazines International is, more than ever, happy to help.
Despite abundant resentment abroad about United States cultural hegemony, Hearst is charging ahead with plans to expand overseas. Hemmed in by soaring costs and declining readership domestically, American publishers like Hearst are feeling a growing urgency to tap into the aspirations of women all over the world to conquer unanticipated markets. With a formula almost as closely guarded as Coca-Cola's -- there is a secret 50-page instruction manual -- Cosmopolitan, Hearst's naughty girlfriend of a magazine, has increased its circulation to 8.2 million worldwide, even extending its brand to places where readers have to hide the magazine from their husbands.
After adding nine editions in the last two years, Cosmo will soon publish in 50 countries, including the recently opened Latvian edition and a Kazakhstan Cosmo that makes its debut in September.
A product that seems as American as "Sex and the City" now flirts with newsstand shoppers on six of the seven continents and produces hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue for Hearst, suggesting that deep cleavage and thinner thighs have global legs.
"Things American are not viewed as negatively as we might read about," said George J. Green, president of Hearst Magazines International. "There's a huge appetite for these magazines out there."
The universal dialect in the world of Cosmo is romance followed very closely by overheated pillow talk. Cosmo appeals to women who are coming of age because they can sample adult pleasures without becoming enmeshed in adult worries.
These feelings are evidently transferable. "Underneath the veil or shmatte, every woman wants to be loved and cherished," said Helen Gurley Brown, who reinvented Cosmo in in 1965 and still wears a micro-miniskirt at 80.
Or as Grazyna Olbrych, the editor of Polish Cosmo, put it: "Cosmo is not about culture. When you are young, you want to have a young man who loves you and have great sex with him."
For Hearst and its Cosmo importers, the trick is to navigate Cosmo's universal message around a variety of political, social and linguistic obstacles. For example, replicating Cosmo's slightly depraved cover presentation in 28 languages can be difficult.
"In Finland, the words for 'sexy' have about 35 letters and 15 umlauts," said Tina Totterman, editor of Finnish Cosmo, standing near the piano at an opening cocktail party.
The Cosmo mantra of "Fun, Fearless Female" requires a bit of a makeover to resonate with other far-flung audiences. In India, the birthplace of the Kama Sutra, there are no Cosmo articles about sexual positions. The mammoth Chinese version never mentions sex because it is forbidden, said the editor, Vera Xu. Instead, articles about uplifting cleavage are replaced by uplifting stories about youthful dedication, although there is still plenty of advice on how to look your best. Sex also gets less attention in the Swedish version, but for precisely the opposite reason: In a wide-open culture, the word has little of the sizzle that it has here.
In France, the editor, Anne Chabrol, also confronts a readership very comfortable -- even bored, she says -- with sexual matters. She has responded by running a contest asking in French "Does he cheat on you?" and the winner is awarded the services of a private detective to find out for sure.
Honoring local idiosyncrasy is critical, said Mr. Green and the editors. Ms. Totterman, the Finnish editor, said putting Britney Spears on the local cover of the "Fun, Fearless Female" issue, a special issue all the magazines publish, would not work in her market. It has to be someone Finnish, someone local readers can identify with. Similarly, the Hong Kong edition uses mostly Asian faces with pictures of local celebrities. But in China, there is still a hunger for Western images. "We are a developing country and just opening up to the West, so people are very interested in seeing what is going on in other places," Ms. Xu said.
Still, certain standards must be observed. The woman on the Cosmo cover -- it is always a woman -- should have large hair, remarkable features and not too much clothing.
"Hearst is a great partner, as long as you don't put a guy on the cover," said Ellen Verbeek, co-editor of Russian Cosmo along with Elena Myasnikova. Ms. Verbeek said that Cosmo fills a need for the young Russian woman. (Before Cosmo arrived in 1994, young Russian women had to choose generally between magazine titles that Hearst officials roughly translate as Factory Woman and Farming Woman.)
But those needs may be a bit different from those of the American Cosmo reader.
"We did an article about how to have sex when you live with your parents because so many young Russian couples can't afford to move out," Ms. Verbeek said.
In some places, business can get rough. Publishing glossy magazines in third world countries or crippled post-industrial economies goes beyond picking out chic clothes and riffing on the importance of good hair.
"I have no connections and in Hungary everyone has to deal with what is like the Mafia," said Anita Pocsik, the editor of Cosmo in Hungary. "They say I have to hire this person, and go to this printer. I give them nothing. I worked two years straight, standing at the printer and signing pages, because without that, nothing would get done."
Reda Gaudiamo, whose magazine has a circulation of 127,000 in Indonesia, the largest Islamic nation in the world, said she had received letters from Muslim groups saying she is "helping Indonesian women love sex too much." 
She said, "I wrote to them and said this is what Indonesia needs." She added, "For a long time, we never talked about sex."
Still, she said, she does "tone down the sex articles."
The magazine is not welcome everywhere. Mr. Green said some conservative markets will remain unconquered. In 1984, the government of Singapore banned versions of the magazine that had been produced elsewhere. (It has subsequently authorized local production of Harper's Bazaar, a Hearst fashion magazine, but not Cosmo.) In general, Mr. Green said that the company emphasizes indigenous partnerships and locally produced content, which keep its products from becoming a focus of anti-Americanism.
"Nobody has ever tossed us," Mr. Green said. "That doesn't mean it couldn't happen, but we are not a political magazine." Indeed, any hint that a satellite magazine is forgoing articles about the "yummiest underthings" for issues of local moment will bring a stern letter from Hearst.
Last week, the Cosmo editors, who seemed like a novel flock of rare birds confined to a hotel conference room in New York, went on a shopping trip and melted completely into the trendy diversified crowd a few blocks north in SoHo. That day, a terrorist alert was issued for New York City, a reminder that the global footprint of the United States has many ramifications.
For the women touring New York, there was no shock of the new. American fashion, music, and now magazines have created Westernized outposts in countries all over the world. When the editors went out to the Park, a Chelsea nightclub, for an evening of dancing, they were struck by its resemblance to the clubs they left behind.
"This is just like the clubs back home," Ms. Olbrych, the editor from Poland, said with noticeable disappointment. "It's the same music and everybody just stands around looking at each other."
Of course, some differences do exist. Priya Ramani, the editor of Cosmo in India, fingered a $208 price tag on an obviously Indian garment at a boutique named Scoop in SoHo.
"This would cost $5 or $6 where I am from," she said.
That evening, the women piled into City Hall, a restaurant on Duane Street, for the closing event: a minipep rally on the brand called Cosmo. Cathleen P. Black, the president of Hearst Magazines, a unit of the Hearst Corporation, reminded them that in returning home, they would be returning to increasingly competitive markets.
Some will be fighting a familiar enemy. A small-format edition of Conde Nast's Glamour, another magazine with American DNA, is gaining some ground on Cosmo in Europe. That fact left Ms. Black feeling a little riled, and she tried to export a common all-American business philosophy.
"I want you to go back charged up to squash Glamour, completely obliterate them, make them like a little armadillo on the road," she said, using a cultural motif that has a bit more resonance in Texas than Taiwan. But that may change soon enough.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A photo session during a meeting last week in New York for women who edit versions of Cosmopolitan magazine around the world. American publishers are feeling a growing urgency to expand in global markets. (Alan Chin for The New York Times)(pg. 10) Chart/Photos: "DEMOGRAPHICS: Cosmo Here, Cosmo There"Reinvented by Helen Gurley Brown in 1965, the American version has an average circulation of over 2.76 million readers this year and a legion of siblings around the globe. ChinaCIRCULATION 385,000The Chinese version of Cosmo, first published in 1998, has lots of Western content, but holds the sex. IndonesiaCIRCULATION 127,000In this overwhelmingly Muslim country, the Indonesian version has met with both success and some opposition from Islamic groups. RussiaCIRCULATION 400,000Before the Russian economy ran into trouble, the Russian Cosmo published an 850-page magazine to commemorate the 850th anniversary of Moscow in 1997. (Source: Hearst Magazines International)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); PUBLISHING (78%); BRANDING (50%) MAGAZINES; WOMEN; SEX 

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (85%); COCA-COLA CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: COSMOPOLITAN (MAGAZINE) 

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (85%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (85%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%)

PERSON: CARR, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (67%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



647 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: Stamford Journal; 
Diner Stands Its Ground Amid the Redevelopment

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn., May 25 

 BODY:
For the last three years, a tiny diner named Curley's has stood in the way of the latest phase of a huge urban renewal project here among the corporate office towers that dominate this city's downtown business district.
 Now, after a successful court fight saved their 61-year-old restaurant from the wrecking ball, the two owners, immigrant sisters from Greece, may find that all the plans for urban redevelopment are working out to their benefit. 
 After nearly being forced to relocate, Maria Aposporos and her sister, Eleni Begetis, now have a critical voice in the future of the project, an 11-story building that would include stores and 316 apartments, most of them high-rent units. They can stay where they are on West Park Place, but are negotiating with the developer about a possible move elsewhere on the property -- on their terms. The diner might be moved, or they might get space in the new building. 
"I don't want to kill the project," Mrs. Aposporos said during a break from the cash register during a bustling lunch hour, "but I don't want them to rob me, either."
An outgoing woman whose English is still slightly broken, Mrs. Aposporos is an unlikely participant in Stamford's four-decade downtown redevelopment program. The work has helped turn an old factory town into a corporate magnet, but it also led to the demolition of hundreds of businesses and displaced thousands of people, most of them poor. 
The diner, which Mrs. Aposporos and her sister, both former waitresses, bought in 1976 from the original owner, Herluf Svenningsen, known as Curley, has long attracted an array of customers who find it indispensable for its inexpensive food, homey atmosphere and the taste of a forgotten Stamford.
The diner seemed doomed when the Stamford Urban Redevelopment Commission condemned it in 1999 to clear the way for the new building. Using its powers of eminent domain, the commission offered the sisters $233,000 for the diner and its land. They insisted that their property was worth much more, though, and in fact the chairman of the commission, Stephen Osman, said the Boston developer had agreed to pay the city $4.6 million for the diner and its 5,736-square-foot plot, which includes about 24 parking places, and two old buildings to the west of Curley's. 
The commission offered to rent the sisters space in the new building, but they said they could not afford it. Bearing petitions signed by thousands of customers and other supporters, Mrs. Aposporos went to court in December 1999 and obtained a temporary restraining order against the commission. When a State Superior Court judge rejected her motion for a permanent injunction, she appealed to the Connecticut Supreme Court.
"I was hopeful that we would win, but I was not as optimistic as Maria," said John Wayne Fox, Mrs. Aposporos's lawyer and a state legislator. "She just refused to give up."
To the chagrin of the commission and other Stamford officials, who believe the city needs more redevelopment, the State Supreme Court ruled in Mrs. Aposporos's favor in February. In a unanimous decision, it held that the commission's condemnation of the diner in 1999 was invalid because it had relied on a 1963 finding that the area was blighted when, by the time of the condemnation order, it had been rejuvenated by an influx of restaurants and other business.
Customers were pleased. "We all feel great for Maria, who is a terrific lady," Ben Evans, a retired floor covering worker, said recently while eating breakfast at the diner's counter. "It sends a message that you can't take away someone's private property for financial benefit by the city when it's not warranted."
The commission and the city asked the court to reconsider its decision, but the justices dismissed the motion without comment. 
The lawyer for the commission, Bruce Goldberg, said, "Their decision is based on some incorrect conclusions and assumptions." He said the court had based its ruling on a mistaken assertion that the commission had not held enough public hearings on the project.
The developer, the Corcoran Jennison Companies, now has to work out an arrangement with the sisters if it is to proceed with the multimillion-dollar building. Both Mr. Goldberg and the Stamford mayor, Dannel P. Malloy, said the company was considering building around the diner. 
"She was entitled to do what she did," Mr. Malloy said of Mrs. Aposporos's legal fight, "but it's now time to move ahead with the project if at all possible."
Mrs. Aposporos and Tom Janke, a land use consultant she has hired, have met several times with the president of Corcoran Jennison, Marty Jones, "She's offered to move us to another place on the property," Mrs. Aposporos said in referring to the condemned site, "and I might be willing to do it."
Miss Jones said the company was considering several courses, including moving the sisters' little diner a short distance on the property.
"We still believe that something will get built, but now it's a very difficult situation," she said, "and it's possible that the diner may stay right where it is." That would not displease Mrs. Aposporos. "We'd like to stay where we are, for our customers' sake," she said, "but I don't want to be the bad guy and stand in the way of progress."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The owners of Curley's diner, Maria Aposporos, right, and her sister, Eleni Begetis. (George Ruhe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); PETITIONS (77%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); RELOCATIONS (77%); EMINENT DOMAIN (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); JUDGES (72%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (72%); INJUNCTIONS (72%); IMMIGRATION (71%); DISPLACED PERSONS (50%) RESTAURANTS; DINERS (EATING PLACES) 

ORGANIZATION: CURLEY'S DINER (STAMFORD, CONN) 

PERSON: APOSPOROS, MARIA; BEGETIS, ELENI 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%) STAMFORD (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



648 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: Price of Broken Vows of Silence 

BYLINE:  By ADAM LIPTAK 

 BODY:
Four years ago, Paul Marcoux accepted $450,000 in exchange for his silence about what he says was sexual misconduct by Archbishop Rembert G. Weakland of Milwaukee decades earlier. On Thursday, he was on national television discussing his claims and the settlement itself.
 Legal experts say the archbishop is entitled to get his money back. Yet as a practical matter, they say, that will never happen. 
 Lawyers on both sides of clergy sexual abuse cases estimate that about two dozen people have spoken to the press in the face of confidentiality agreements. Yet no one, they agree, has been sued.
"I have counseled over a dozen people who decided to speak out after signing a confidentiality agreement," said Jeffrey R. Anderson, a lawyer in St. Paul who represents victims of sexual abuse by the clergy, "and yet not one has had any action taken against them."
There is little question that churches could win lawsuits against people like Mr. Marcoux.
"This is a terrible breach," Lester A. Pines, a lawyer in Madison, Wis., said of Mr. Marcoux's television interview. Mr. Pines, who reviewed the settlement agreement between the archbishop and Mr. Marcoux at a reporter's request, said, "It's a very good agreement, and it's completely enforceable."
In the agreement, Mr. Marcoux promised not to disclose his accusations or the terms of the settlement. In the event of a breach, he agreed to "return to the archdiocese all sums paid to him."
The agreement also required Mr. Marcoux to return all copies of correspondence from Archbishop Weakland. A 1980 letter from the archbishop to Mr. Marcoux nevertheless found its way to news organizations through someone who said he received it anonymously.
Mr. Marcoux's interviews with ABC News and The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel would seem to be a plain breach of the confidentiality clause, which prohibits disclosures to "any newspaper, any electronic media, reporters, and any other individual."
Nonetheless, said Patrick J. Schiltz, dean of the University of St. Thomas School of Law in Minneapolis, "these things are not worth the paper they're written on."
In private practice, Professor Schiltz represented churches in sexual abuse cases. "In 500 cases," he said, "I never advised a church to have such an agreement."
What explains the inconsistency between the legal force of the agreement and its practical worthlessness? Lawyers point to several factors.
The first is public relations. "As a practical matter, looking beyond the law here, what are the probabilities that a church would be dumb enough to go after him?" asked Jeffrey A. Newman, a plaintiffs' lawyer in Massachusetts. "They would be savaged."
Professor Schiltz agreed. "You can't sue the victim," he said, "because then you're beating up on the victim and you get crucified in the press." 
That does not mean that confidentiality agreements generally may be violated at will. "A corporation can play hardball in a way a church can't," Professor Schiltz said.
A lawsuit would be counterproductive in a second way, said Gregory Conway, a lawyer in Green Bay, Wis., as it would draw yet more attention to the very allegations the agreement was meant to suppress.
On the most practical level, the money paid may well be gone. As Mr. Pines put it, "The likelihood of collecting is probably nil."
Precisely what Archbishop Weakland paid for also colors the analysis. A court would be more likely to order that the settlement payment be returned if it was for silence rather than compensation. 
Wisconsin law is quite favorable to defendants in clergy sexual abuse cases. In 1995, the Wisconsin Supreme Court applied a three-year statute of limitations to dismiss a sexual abuse claim against a priest and held that related claims against the Archdiocese of Milwaukee were barred by the First Amendment. 
That suggests that Mr. Marcoux's legal claim was valueless as an economic matter. What he was paid for, then, was silence.
Especially in light of the legal obstacles Mr. Marcoux would have had to overcome, experts said the settlement amount was very large.
"They look to me to have vastly overpaid," Professor Schiltz said. "I settled 200 cases for churches, and we never approached half of that amount. It's an extraordinarily high settlement."
Were the archbishop to sue under the settlement agreement, Mr. Marcoux might argue that he should be excused from the confidentiality agreement because he is a whistle-blower of a sort.
"The courts of every state can undo any contract if it is against public policy," Mr. Newman said.
But Robert P. Varian, a San Francisco lawyer, said the courts set the bar high for such public policy exceptions. "You're going to be held to the contract unless there is a really strong public policy issue," he said.
Jeffrey S. Wigand, who was sued by the Brown & Williamson tobacco company for violating a confidentiality agreement by appearing on "60 Minutes," said the standard should be whether public health and safety are threatened by continued secrecy.
"I was allowed to break my confidentiality agreement because it prevented the public from being better served," he said, adding that he was coerced into signing it in a way that clergy abuse victims may not have been. 
Professor Schiltz was unsympathetic to the public policy argument, saying that Mr. Marcoux should not be able to have his cake and eat it too. If his goal was to speak out, Professor Schiltz said, he need not have accepted the money.
"Why did you allow yourself to be bought out in the first place?" he asked. "If it's a horrible thing to buy secrecy, it's a horrible thing to sell it, too."
Even if Mr. Marcoux came to have second thoughts about the secrecy agreement and was not inclined to or could not return the money, legal experts said he had another alternative. He could have petitioned a court to be relieved of his confidentiality obligations.
As it turned out, the only benefit Archbishop Weakland is likely to have received from the confidentiality provision is the ability to hide behind it.
"Because I accept the agreement's confidentiality provision," he said in a statement, "I will make no comment about its content." 
But the confidentiality provision in the agreement runs in only one direction. Mr. Marcoux, who spoke, was bound by it. Archbishop Weakland, who remained silent, was not.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jeffrey R. Anderson, left, says his clients have broken confidentiality deals without legal repercussions; Jeffrey S. Wigand says secrecy deals should be voided if they threaten public health and safety. (Reuters); (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); LITIGATION (92%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); MISCONDUCT (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); NEWS REPORTING (75%); CHILD ABUSE (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%) SEX CRIMES; PRIESTS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; CHILD ABUSE AND NEGLECT 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF ST THOMAS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: LIPTAK, ADAM; ANDERSON, JEFFREY R 

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (70%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (56%) WISCONSIN, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (76%); MINNESOTA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



649 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Taiwanese Airliner With 225 Aboard Crashes in Sea 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan, Sunday, May 26 

 BODY:
A Taiwanese airliner bound for Hong Kong with 225 people aboard suddenly disappeared from radar in clear weather and crashed into the sea on Saturday between southern Taiwan and China. Rescue workers quickly reached the wreckage of the Boeing 747 and retrieved at least 16 bodies but found no survivors.
 China Airlines flight 611 left Chiang Kai-shek International Airport in Taipei at 3:08 p.m. with mostly Taiwanese businessmen and tourists on board. Air traffic controllers lost all radar contact with the plane at 3:33 p.m., Taiwan authorities said. 
 The Aviation Safety Council, Taiwan's air safety regulator, said rescuers began finding bodies and wreckage in the water less than three hours later about 12 miles north of Makung, the county seat of the Penghu Islands near the southern end of the Taiwan Strait. That would put the crash site within Taiwan waters.
Chang Chia-ju, Taiwan's vice minister of transportation and communications, declined at a news conference to speculate on what might have gone wrong. He did say that the plane's pilots had sent no distress call, but he would not discuss what that might mean.
"The weather was fine, the visibility was good and there was no air turbulence," Mr. Chang said.
Wei Hsing-Hsiung, the president of China Airlines, said Saturday night, "Mechanical failure is highly unlikely." If something had gone wrong with the plane, he said, the pilots would probably have had enough time to make a distress call. 
Papers and even foam scraps from the aircraft's seats began floating into rice paddies up to 60 miles east of the crash site on the main island of Taiwan, local television here reported, prompting discussion of whether the plane came apart at high altitude.
There was no suggestion from a Taiwan official of involvement by China in the crash, nor did Taiwanese news agencies report any signs of unusual military mobilization afterward.
China Airlines officials said two Cathay Pacific planes flying near the crash site had received automatic distress signals. Such signals are commonly activated when a plane is submerged in water.
An Aviation Safety Council official said late this morning that rescuers had detected signals that could be coming from the aircraft's locating device and that the aircraft's data and cockpit-voice recorders were likely nearby. The water at the crash site is about 300 feet deep, the official said.
James Chang, China Airlines' senior vice president for administration, said the area's powerful currents could be moving the recorders across the ocean floor.
The Aviation Safety Council said Saturday night that it had contacted the United States National Transportation Safety Board as well as Boeing and Pratt & Whitney, which made the engines. All three promised to send investigators, who are expected to arrive on Monday, the council said.
The crash is the latest in a long series for China Airlines, a privately held company that is Taiwan's largest air carrier and has one of the worst safety records in commercial aviation. The crash on Saturday is the airline's ninth fatal crash since 1970, according to Airsafe.com, an Internet site specializing in aviation safety. One of the previous crashes also occurred near the Penghu Islands, in 1971, and was attributed at the time to a bomb on board.
The Penghu Islands are among the most heavily militarized areas in the world. They control the Taiwan Strait and the Taiwanese government has long viewed them as the most likely invasion route for any attack from the Chinese mainland. Taiwan has a large naval base on one of the islands and a full armored division there.
Taiwan and China have technically remained at war since the Communist victory in the civil war of the 1940's drove Chiang Kai-shek's Nationalists to the island. But the two sides have tried to reduce military tensions in the strait in recent months as they broaden economic ties. In conducting missile tests, Taiwan has been careful to use its eastern coast, away from the Penghu Islands and the Taiwan Strait.
According to China Airlines, one passenger on Saturday's flight was from Singapore, one was Swiss, 14 were Chinese citizens, and the rest of the passengers were Taiwanese, including 114 tourists. All 19 of the crew were Taiwanese citizens, the Aviation Safety Council said.
Very few mainland Chinese visit Taiwan. For national security reasons, Taiwan severely restricts the entry of Chinese citizens who live anywhere except Hong Kong and Macao, former European colonies that returned to Chinese control only in the last five years.
The flight between Taipei and Hong Kong is Asia's most heavily traveled air route, with 4.7 million passengers in 2000, the most recent year for which data is available. There are no direct flights between Taiwan and the Chinese mainland, so the several hundred thousand Taiwanese who work in mainland cities usually fly to Taiwan via Hong Kong.
The Hong Kong-Taipei route is dominated by China Airlines and Cathay Pacific, which charge steep prices.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the Sung Shan airport in Taipei, grieving relatives of passengers aboard the China Airlines airliner that went down in the Taiwan Strait yesterday waited on a plane that was about to fly them near the crash site. (Associated Press) Map of Taiwan highlighting Penghu: The Penghu Islands, near the crash site, are heavily militarized.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (90%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); FLIGHT RECORDERS (78%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (74%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (73%); COUNTIES (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (63%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (58%); PRATT & WHITNEY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CHINA AIRLINES 

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (50%)

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (94%) TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (97%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) TAIWAN

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



650 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Everyday Terrors 

BYLINE:  By Ruth Franklin; Ruth Franklin is associate literary editor at The New Republic.

 BODY:
 WISH YOU
WERE HERE
By Stewart O'Nan.
517 pp. New York:
Grove Press. $25.
 Like a jack-in-the-box with a broken spring, Stephen King keeps popping up in Stewart O'Nan's work. In "The Names of the Dead," O'Nan's second novel, a book by King winks at the reader from a nightstand. The homage is unavoidable in O'Nan's third novel, "The Speed Queen": the narrator, a young woman on death row, dictates her story into a tape destined for an unnamed writer whose books include "Carrie" and "The Shining." Even O'Nan's recent foray into nonfiction, "The Circus Fire," bears the prints of the macabre: it recounts, often in gruesome detail, a deadly blaze at a Ringling Brothers show in the 1940's.
O'Nan has inherited from King an acute sensitivity to the vein of horror beneath even the most prosaic settings. But unlike King, he never loses his grasp on reality. Rather than indulge in the excesses of the supernatural, he uses the terrors of everyday life -- nightmares, violent crimes, wars -- as a channel to the most intimate reaches of the human mind. "Snow Angels," O'Nan's first novel, is framed by the discovery of a corpse, but the murder is secondary to the coming-of-age story at the book's core. "A Prayer for the Dying," his fifth and most self-consciously literary novel (it is written in the second person), comes closest to classic horror -- an undertaker contending with a diphtheria outbreak succumbs to Gothic impulses -- but the worst of it takes place in the man's soul. 
For O'Nan's characters, interior demons are far more frightening than anything from the beyond. The secret hurts of childhood, the grudges long held from slights real or imaginary, the betrayals of love -- these are his primary investigations. This is especially true in "Wish You Were Here," his finest and deepest novel to date, which follows three generations of the Maxwell family during a final vacation at their summer cottage in western New York. 
Emily, the matriarch, has decided to sell the place, which has become a burden to her after the death of her husband, Henry. She has little in common with her sister-in-law, Arlene, but the two have grown increasingly dependent on each other since Henry's death. Meg, Emily's daughter, is a newly recovering alcoholic now struggling through a divorce that has left her daughter rebellious and her son scared and shy. Ken, Meg's brother, is an unemployed photographer resigned to his status as a failure in the eyes of both his mother and his wife, Lise. Their son refuses to be parted from his Game Boy and has a penchant for stealing; his older sister awkwardly and impatiently awaits puberty.
Keeping this cast of characters straight would seem to require some juggling, but O'Nan has hit upon a relaxed framework that is surprisingly successful. Each chapter takes place over the course of one day in the week-long vacation, beginning at breakfast and ending at night. The chapters are broken up into many short sections, varying in length, each told from the perspective of a different character. The action rises and ebbs with the rhythms of daily life -- meals, swimming, after-dinner videos, the children's bedtime.
In previous books O'Nan has wound the strings of plot tightly -- sometimes too tightly -- but here he is largely content to watch his characters interact. There is little in the way of story here. Will it ever stop raining? Will Meg and Ken be able to persuade Emily not to sell the house? The exception is a subplot that, with O'Nan's trademark touch of gristle, involves the abduction of a convenience store clerk just minutes before Ken wanders in. Over the course of the novel, the missing girl becomes an obsession for several members of the family, for reasons that have more to do with their own problems than with concern for her safety.
The general absence of melodrama allows O'Nan to focus on the characters, and he draws them with sympathy and subtlety, especially the women. Emily, like many elderly people, has grown preoccupied with life's trivia: the postcard she must remember to mail, the burglar alarm next door that wakes her up at 3 o'clock every morning. The others find this annoying, especially Lise: "The ants in the mailbox, the stove dying -- everything was a crisis." But the reader is privy to a depth in Emily not apparent to her children. On a day trip to Niagara Falls, she is tormented by memories of her honeymoon. "The sun made the day sharp and promising, as if they might drive forever, only stopping to make love and eat. It had seemed that way, though they must have waited in line like this, and sat at stoplights, and fussed with the luggage. She remembered only the best of them, compensation for the months she'd spent at Henry's bedside, memories that caught her walking across the living room or washing out her teacup at the sink, leaving her useless and fretful for the rest of the day."
Two of the cousins, Sarah and Ella, both on the brink of teenagerhood, are drawn equally well. When Meg rages at Sarah, the girl must simultaneously pacify her dangerously unstable mother and protect her little brother. Her defiance, though unspoken, is guilty, as when Meg asks if she can count on her: "Inside Sarah's head, a buzzer went off, like on one of those game shows. Wrong, she thought, but just sat there in the dark -- as if no one could see her ugly, secret little heart." Meanwhile, Ella develops a crush on her cousin, and her anguish that Sarah does not reciprocate is worse than her fear of being a lesbian. "Ella wanted to run her palms along her hard shins, cup her perfect calves. In three days they were leaving -- two and a half now -- and she would go back to their empty neighborhood and wait for school to start. Sarah would be 500 miles away, going to a new high school, even if she did break up with Mark. So Ella didn't care. It was all a waste of time." 
O'Nan's only stumble in "Wish You Were Here" is the missing-girl subplot. Though it adds a layer of intrigue to what might otherwise be a somewhat insular narrative, it seems an artificial supplement to an otherwise organic work. It's clear that O'Nan's true interest lies in the dark places of the psyche, not the shadows at the edge of the woods. So why does he continue to give his characters an obligatory nudge in that direction? 
Toward the end of the novel, Ken and Meg take their children to Panama Rocks, a park of rock formations where they played as children. Meg remembers that she had been "afraid of the place, setting nightmares here, faceless killers chasing her through the cold, mossy boulders and shadowy trees, trapping her in dead ends where she clawed her fingernails to shreds trying to climb the sheer walls." As if on cue, the caretaker is reading a Stephen King paperback. But now, from the perspective of adulthood, Meg finds the park less menacing. "The sun warmed the trees, left everything beneath them in deep shadow -- a postcard. The parking lot was empty, only the flimsy railings leading to the snack bar, the old man in the ticket window reading his Stephen King. There was nothing to be afraid of. That life was behind her now -- not gone, no, it was still a part of her, but it belonged to the past, and she needed to keep it there, to relinquish her grip on it, as hard as that might be, if not impossible." That, as O'Nan knows, is how adults conquer demons.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Rastko Ciric) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); LITERATURE (89%); MURDER (77%); WRITERS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); VIOLENT CRIME (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (68%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: STEPHEN KING (90%) FRANKLIN, RUTH; O'NAN, STEWART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

TITLE: WISH YOU WERE HERE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



651 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1444 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Westchester; 
Builders Are Moving to Fill Demand for Lab Space

BYLINE:  By ELSA BRENNER 

 BODY:
IN response to a growing demand for biomedical laboratory space in Westchester County, a 30-year-old, 700,000-square-foot research park in Greenburgh and Mount Pleasant is planning to expand by as much at 570,000 square feet.
 LCOR Inc., an owner and the manager of the 280-acre Landmark at Eastview research and development park, which was built in the early 1960's for the Union Carbide Corporation, already has zoning approval from Greenburgh for a 320,000-square-foot expansion. It will begin building to suit tenants as early as this fall. LCOR, a national development, asset management and operations management company, is also planning to seek approval for 250,000 more square feet of office and laboratory space on a 100-acre section of the park that is in Mount Pleasant. 
 The decision to enlarge and upgrade the complex comes as the county is seeking bids to turn a vacant site it owns in Valhalla -- next to Westchester Medical Center and New York Medical College and less than a mile from the Landmark at Eastview -- into a privately financed biotechnology and medical research park. Under that plan, up to a million square feet of laboratory and incubator space for biotech companies would be built on 60 acres. 
Peter T. Gilpatric, senior vice president for LCOR, which is based in Berwyn, Pa., said the company might also submit a bid to develop the county's site. More than 30 private developers that have expressed interest in the project are being asked to submit their qualifications to the county. A final developer will be selected by late fall.
With about 8,000 employees, Westchester already has the state's largest concentration of biotech and pharmaceutical companies -- among them Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, which is at the Landmark at Eastview, and Acorda Therapeutics in Hawthorne.
But with many new biotech companies being spawned in New York City -- at academic institutions and hospitals like Columbia University and Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, for example -- that are not able to afford or find space in the city, Westchester and other surrounding areas are stepping up efforts to accommodate them.
"At the current time, we don't have enough good incubator space for new and emerging companies who are taking their first step out of the research institution and attempting to become profit making," Mr. Gilpatric explained.
In its first expansion since buying the park in 1999 for $82 million, LCOR will build new lab and office space to suit tenants like Aton Pharma, a year-old company outgrowing its current quarters. The company, which is researching a new cancer-fighting drug, was founded in New York City by Dr. Paul A. Marks, president emeritus of Memorial Sloan-Kettering, and his associates at the hospital, and Ron Breslow, a chemistry professor at Columbia. Felix G. Rohatyn, the former ambassador to France, is chairman.
Aton started with 6,000 square feet at the Landmark and is now expanding to 15,000 square feet, said Nicholas Bacopoulos, its president and chief executive. 
Mr. Gilpatric said LCOR was offering what he called mezzanine space -- typically 5,000 to 30,000 square feet of office and lab space to new and emerging biotech companies like Aton Pharma -- as well as larger blocks of space to mature companies like Progenics Pharmaceuticals. It moved from Manhattan to the Landmark 13 years ago, when the park was owned by another developer. Progenics started out renting 3,000 square feet and now occupies 50,000 square feet -- and will soon need more. The company, which was started by Dr. Paul J. Maddon when he was a medical school student, is developing drugs used in the treatment of H.I.V. and cancer.
Robert McKinney, vice president of finance and operations at Progenics, said that the company wanted to remain close to scientific and medical institutions and to the talent pool they generate but that as a start-up, the company could not afford New York City rents.
For example, lab space at the Audubon Business and Technology Center, which is a part of the Audubon Biomedical Science and Technology Park across the street from Columbia-Presbyterian Center in Washington Heights, rents for about $40 a square foot a year, according to Mitch Gipson, executive director of the Aubudon complex. By comparison, rents for laboratory space at the Landmark are about $25 a square foot, not including taxes and utilities, Mr. Gilpatric said.
Many of the 1,200 people working for companies at the Landmark commute by car from Westchester and surrounding counties, although some take the Metro-North train from Grand Central Terminal to North White Plains, where a shuttle bus transports them to the Landmark.
As more biomedical companies like Progenics and Aton need additional space and new companies join them in Westchester, LCOR will add space at the Landmark in 50,000-square-foot increments contained in three-story, precast concrete modules, said Steven Rosenstein, the president of SRA in White Plains, a firm working with LCOR as a planning consultant. Those modules could be connected at a later date.
The main building at the Landmark is a three-story poured concrete and glass structure designed by Vincent Kling of Philadelphia for Union Carbide, which occupied it until 1985. Its aging heating, ventilation, air-conditioning and other delivery systems are being updated, Mr. Gilpatric said.
I N the new buildings, flexibility will be the key," Mr. Rosenstein said, adding that suite sizes would be able to accommodate companies needing as little as 1,000 square feet. In addition, delivery systems for heat, electricity, plumbing and air-conditioning will be designed to go where they are needed, he said. 
"We've learned our lessons from projects where we've guessed wrong," Mr. Rosenstein said. "Now we're planning for blocks of space that can be configured in a lot of different ways -- completely open or closed, for biotech or chemistry. We not going in with a specific tenant in mind. We're looking at a broader target.
"This is an emerging and dynamic industry, and what many landlords fail to do is transition with tenants."
The new construction at the Landmark need not be in competition with whatever is ultimately built at the county's site, Mr. Gilpatric said. For example, the county site could offer space to incubators and to established biomedical companies -- hospitals and research institutions -- that need core facilities like clean rooms and animal testing labs. By contrast, he said, LCOR -- which has $7.5 billion in developments completed, under construction or in predevelopment -- is focusing on small and midsized biomedical companies. 
"It's all unknown at this point," he said, "but whatever is built could be complementary rather than competitive. There's definitely a synergy created -- in terms of the labor force and infrastructure -- when an industry like this is clustered."
Several miles to the south of the Landmark, the Ardsley Park Science and Technology Center, the former headquarters for Ciba-Geigy, has more than 500,000 square feet of office and lab space. Its major biotech tenants include Purdue Pharma and Cultor Food Science, although it also leases space to the county and to the Westchester Library System.
Jason Halpern, the managing director for Halpern Real Estate Development, which owns and manages the center, said that like the Landmark, Ardsley Park was 95 percent occupied, although the owners had development rights to build 250,000 more square feet.
In another effort to develop more biotech space in the county, New York Presbyterian Hospital is seeking approvals from White Plains officials for a twin-building 384,000-square-foot complex. It would house a $100 million center for advanced proton therapy to treat 46 different forms of cancer, as well as labs intended for research into brain and neurodegenerative diseases affecting the elderly.
On June 28, the first Lower Hudson Valley Regional Biotechnology Conference will be held at the Dolce Tarrytown House conference center to explore the economic and development opportunities for biotech. The event is being organized by a group of public and private organizations, including New York Medical College, New York Presbyterian Hospital, the Westchester Medical Center and the Landmark at Eastview. 
"Are we all being overly optimistic?" asked Salvatore J. Carrera, the county's director of of economic development and real estate.
"No," he answered. "There's a tremendous amount of pent-up demand for more biotech and medical research space. This is not a dot-com phenomenon. We're talking about well-funded companies in an industry that is on the cutting edge for finding cures."

GRAPHIC: Photo: An expansion is planned at the Landmark at Eastview research park. (Suzy Allman for The New York Times) Map of Weschester, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); MEDICAL & DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORIES (90%); BIOMEDICINE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (88%); CANCER (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ZONING (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); HEALTH CARE (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (73%); CANCER HOSPITALS (72%); HOSPITALS (72%); APPROVALS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%) DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); RESEARCH; LABORATORIES AND SCIENTIFIC EQUIPMENT 

COMPANY: LCOR INC (72%); UNION CARBIDE CORP (72%); ACORDA THERAPEUTICS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: LCOR (REAL ESTATE COMPANY) 

TICKER: ACOR (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (72%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (72%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (53%)

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) GREENBURGH (NY); MOUNT PLEASANT (NY); WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); VALHALLA (NY)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



652 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH; 
Investors Want Cops On the Street

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
HAVING run the first lap of his investigation of Wall Street research, Eliot L. Spitzer, attorney general of New York, secured $100 million in penalties from Merrill Lynch, changes to the way it compensates analysts to blunt the influence of investment bankers on them and an apology from the firm for the now-public frat-house chatter of its Internet analysts. 
 Mr. Spitzer also produced yelps from Wall Street's special friends in Washington, who argue that he has overreached in the investigation and settlement and threatens the nation's capital markets, even its economy. 
 In a speech last Wednesday before the United States Chamber of Commerce, Representative Michael G. Oxley, a Republican from Ohio and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, said: "By coercing large sums of money from brokerage firms, actions like those undertaken by the attorney general will seriously weaken the ability of American companies to raise funds in the capital markets." 
American investors who lost funds in the capital markets clearly come second to Mr. Oxley. The large sum coerced out of Merrill -- $100 million -- is less than one-third of the amount the firm paid for office supplies and postage last year, $349 million.
It is no surprise that Mr. Spitzer is being dogged by Mr. Oxley, who has received $235,103 from political action committees tied to financial and insurance concerns this election cycle. That is 60 percent of his P.A.C. total and more than five times the receipts from his next-biggest industry donor. 
Mr. Oxley and the others couch their attacks on Mr. Spitzer in these terms: state regulators should mind their own beeswax and let federal regulators finish the job on analyst conflicts. 
The states are working with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the investigation of Wall Street conflicts. Trying to push them to the sidelines does a disservice to investors already battered by compliant accounting firms, conflicted analysts and corrupt corporate executives. 
Throughout the 1990's, state regulators were often well ahead of their federal brethren in alerting investors to risks or outright frauds in the market. As the local cop on the investment beat, state investigations often lead to broad moves by national regulators.
For example, state regulators were the first to warn investors about microcap fraud and shut down many bucket shops. The states took the lead in cracking down on day-trading firms and misleading advertising by online brokerage firms.
"The states have always been focused on Main Street investors and their concerns," said Marc Beauchamp, executive director of the North American Securities Administrators Association in Washington. "The United States has the fairest and most transparent markets in the world, and a big reason for that is the complementary system of regulation: the S.E.C., the self-regulatory organizations and the states."
Those less beholden to the industry than Mr. Oxley view Mr. Spitzer's recent results differently. Thomas A. Bowman, president of the Association for Investment Management and Research, a nonprofit organization of financial analysts, portfolio managers and other investment professionals, lauded the Merrill settlement and said firms must do even more to foster unbiased research. Standards are needed to deal with pressures on analysts from institutional investors and corporate issuers, he said.
Alas, it is an election year, so investors will likely hear more whining from securities industry sympathizers as the analyst investigation continues. But as Mr. Oxley said in his speech, "Grandstanding by ambitious and publicity-hungry political officials will not lead to healthy and responsible securities markets." 
Most intelligent thing he said all day. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATTORNEYS GENERAL (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (88%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); ETHICS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); BONDS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); LAWYERS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ONLINE TRADING (77%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (74%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); ACCOUNTING (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ETHICS; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%) MERRILL LYNCH & CO; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (90%) MORGENSON, GRETCHEN; OXLEY, MICHAEL G (REPR); SPITZER, ELIOT L (ATTY GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



653 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: FRONT LINES 

BYLINE:  By ANDREA KANNAPELL 

 BODY:
FEAR -- The nation grappled with the return of raw anxiety over terrorism after a series of grim statements out of a Bush administration scorched by criticism that it might have missed clues to the Sept. 11 attacks.
 On Sunday, Vice President Dick Cheney called new attacks "almost certain"; on Monday, the F.B.I. director, Robert S. Mueller III, warned that Israeli-style suicide attacks were "inevitable"; and on Tuesday, Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld said that terrorists would "inevitably" obtain weapons of mass destruction. 
 Adding to the nation's sense of vulnerability, intelligence officials said they had picked up troubling communications indicating that Al Qaeda might be preparing a new attack, and an inspector general's report warned that many foreigners had obtained Social Security numbers using false information. A federal prosecutor said a San Diego stock adviser who tried to sell $300,000 in stock on Sept. 10 might have had advance warning of Sept. 11. The man, Amr Ibrahim Elgindy, an Egyptian Muslim, is in custody on unrelated charges; his lawyers said the accusation was ludicrous. 
The F.B.I. gave New York officials the most specific of alerts: uncorroborated reports of threats to the city's landmarks. Extra security was already in place when it turned out the F.B.I.'s source was Abu Zubaydah, the captured Qaeda lieutenant. Mr. Rumsfeld offered a disquieting note of reassurance, saying that some intelligence about threats might be planted to waste law enforcement resources and allow terrorists to gauge weaknesses. Openness as strength, Page 4.
While President Bush urged unity in the campaign against terror in a nuanced speech to the German parliament and signed a historic arms pact in Russia, the Congressional committee investigating the nation's preparedness for Sept. 11 erupted in a roar of accusations and revelations of mishandled warnings and bumbling by the nation's intelligence agencies. A senior F.B.I. agent wrote the committee a 13-page letter saying that higher-ups had repeatedly blocked the investigation of Zacarias Moussaoui, the suspected 20th hijacker. 
Tom Daschle, Democrat of South Dakota, called for an independent panel to take on the inquiry. Legislation to create such a panel was sponsored by Joseph I. Lieberman, Democrat of Connecticut, and John R. McCain, Republican of Arizona. Republicans derided the idea as political: all three senators are likely rivals of President Bush in 2004. There were also calls -- not just from Republicans -- to focus on averting future attacks rather than tracing intelligence mistakes. The mobilization of America, and where to look for Al Qaeda next, Page 5. 

ISRAEL -- The office of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said that 32 terror attacks had been foiled since the end of the army's sweep through the West Bank. Still, the rhythm of violence seemed to be returning, with three suicide bombings in four days, as well as an attack on the country's largest fuel depot that narrowly missed being an out-and-out disaster.
That attack raised the possibility that Palestinian militants, hardened by Israel's extensive raids in the West Bank, might be shifting toward strategic targets. It came with the remote-controlled detonation of a bomb attached to a fuel tanker. The ensuing fire was rapidly extinguished, averting a disaster in a densely populated area near Tel Aviv. A prior disaster drill at the depot called for the evacuation of 20,000 people. "What happened today," said the environment minister, Tzachi Hanegbi, "was both a screw-up and a miracle." 
Israel made relatively small-scale raids in the West Bank and Gaza, killing at least five, including a Palestinian militant leader, Mahmoud Titi. 
According to international aid officials, Israel is considering not just buffer zones and a wall to separate the West Bank, but also security zones around all eight major West Bank cities. Palestinians would need monthly permits to pass through the zones, good only from 5 a.m. to 7 p.m. 
Mr. Sharon and his Palestinian nemesis, Yasir Arafat, continued to face trouble from within. Mr. Sharon fired ministers from the ultra-orthodox Shas Party and the smaller United Torah Judaism after they voted against an emergency economic package, leaving his weakened government relying on Labor, a former rival. And Mr. Arafat quelled a mutiny by five ministers appointed to help reform the Palestinian Authority by agreeing to set a date for elections: "this winter." 

INDIA-PAKISTAN -- Kashmiri crossfire worsened, and Pakistani and Indian troops braced for war. The Indian prime minister, Atal Behari Vajpayee, even told his soldiers to prepare for a "decisive battle." Britain urged its citizens to leave Pakistan; the U.S. warned citizens not to go there or to India. But then Pakistan announced it planned to bolster its force by pulling soldiers from the border with Afghanistan. That would leave unguarded a porous border already thought to allow surviving Al Qaeda and Taliban access to and from Afghanistan. Within 24 hours, the situation eased, with India saying it would give Pakistan more time to end support and sanctuary for Kashmiri separatists. Brinksmanship as foreign policy, Page 1. ANDREA KANNAPELL

GRAPHIC: Photo: About 10,000 Afghan refugees a day pass through a U.N. transit center near Kabul on their way back home. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); AL-QAEDA (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); HIJACKING (73%); ARMIES (72%); LAWYERS (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (63%) TERRORISM; PALESTINIANS 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); AL-QAEDA (56%); UNITED NATIONS (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%); TOM DASCHLE (57%) KANNAPELL, ANDREA 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) ISRAEL; INDIA; PAKISTAN

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



654 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Trade, Africans Find Western Barriers 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: PRETORIA, South Africa, May 25 

 BODY:
This country's exports of automobile parts to the United States tripled last year. Uganda's government is making a big push to sell more coffee abroad. In Ghana, Awurabena Okrah is finding more American buyers for her small apparel company's traditional African clothing.
 African leaders, along with some of the poverty-fighting advocacy groups that for years have viewed globalization with suspicion if not downright hostility, are increasingly embracing international trade as the most powerful tool available for creating jobs, steady incomes, hope and political stability. After concentrating for years on winning relief from crippling debt burdens and lobbying for increases in foreign aid payments, African governments are instead starting to demand reduced tariffs and other changes in trade policies from the United States and the other rich nations to increase sales of local products. 
 "The biggest request we are making of Western countries is to open their markets," President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda said. "Debt relief has saved us some money, but the real money will come from trade. Give us the opportunities, and we will compete." 
But even as African governments, entrepreneurs and farmers try to reverse a long contraction in foreign trade, experts and some African officials say they fear a new wave of protectionism from the very countries, including the United States, that have been preaching the virtues of the free market.
They say that despite moves by both the United States and the European Union to give new trade preferences to Africa, powerful domestic lobbies have managed to limit access to markets in the rich countries for the only types of products -- food and clothing -- that most African nations are capable of exporting.
"The fields in which Africa is most competitive now -- agriculture and textiles -- are the areas that are most protected in the West," said Muna B. Ndulo, director of the Institute for African Development at Cornell University.
Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill, who is here this weekend as part of a two-week trip through Africa, heard complaints about American trade policy directly from South African officials. 
Trevor Manuel, South Africa's finance minister, singled out the farm bill signed into law recently by President Bush for offering additional subsidies to American farmers, making it that much harder for Africa to compete on world markets.
Mr. O'Neill has heard similar messages from his traveling companion, Bono, the Irish rock star who has become an influential advocate for helping Africa, and from government officials and poverty-fighting groups in Ghana, his first stop on the trip.
Yaw Osafo-Maafo, Ghana's finance minister, said his country could sell cocoa beans duty free to Europe. But the country's efforts to make its cocoa trade more profitable by making the beans into cocoa butter and chocolate run directly into the kind of arcane but economically important restrictions that typify the world trading system: processed cocoa is subject to European tariffs.
Still, African officials and some economists said the rich nations are taking some steps to provide access to their markets. They point to an American law that went into effect last year, the African Growth and Opportunity Act. It eliminated tariffs on many African exports while keeping other restrictions, like requirements that some clothing be made using American textiles to qualify for the special treatment.
"I understand that the U.S. government has its own internal problems and politics, so maybe they cannot remove barriers in a precipitous way," President Museveni of Uganda said in an interview last week in Washington. "I'm happy with this beginning. Let's take advantage of it and argue as we go along."
That attitude is shared by Ms. Okrah, the owner of Winglow Clothes, a 30-employee apparel-making company in Accra, Ghana's capital. She said this week that the new American trade law had helped her to offset some of the many barriers to selling to the United States, including the difficulty of getting loans for equipment and materials at affordable interest rates. 
She said she was now selling about 20 percent of her goods, worth about $10,000 last year, to the United States.
"It certainly has made all the difference," she said.
But she added that her plans to expand were likely to be limited if the American trade law continued to require her to buy fabric from the United States. Until she can reduce the cost of her materials, she said, she will not be able to afford the machinery needed increase output.
"It's very frustrating," she said.
Criticism of the United States is more pointed when it comes to agricultural trade. Activists in Ghana said the United States government had been hypocritical by demanding, through the International Monetary Fund, that Ghana phase out subsidies for rice, a food in which it was once self-sufficient, while increasing subsidies for American farmers.
At the Makola market, a teeming bazaar in central Accra, vendors sell produce from all over the country -- and rice from the United States and Thailand.
Some of the women eking out a living selling shriveled vegetables in the market are economic refugees from regions in Ghana that once had economies built on growing rice but that can no longer compete with subsidized imports, said Bishop Akogolo, deputy executive director of the Integrated Social Development Center, an advocacy group in Accra.
The only answer, he said, is for Ghana to throw up its own trade restrictions to protect its farmers. "You keep your subsidies and we'll keep our subsidies and barriers," he said. "The U.S. farm bill is spelling more doom for us."
Indeed, the pro-trade view is by no means universal among development experts. Until the most deprived nations succeed in ending armed conflicts, controlling disease and making sure their people have enough food to eat, they said, talk of being able to being able to compete on international markets is irrelevant, some activists said.
"Trade is a red herring," said Njoki Njoroge Njehu, a Kenyan who is the director of 50 Years Is Enough, an activist group. "Even if you can export, do you have anything to export? Does it matter if Kenya is exporting flowers and coffee if people are still dying of hunger?"
But the growing enthusiasm for trade among the more stable African economies is mirrored by a more general acceptance of trade among groups that had long been skeptical that international commerce benefited anyone but big corporations in the rich nations.
In a recent report, Oxfam International, the relief and advocacy group, came down squarely on the side of promoting trade as a poverty-fighting strategy. 
The group said sub-Saharan Africa's share of world trade had fallen to 1.3 percent, a third of its level two decades ago. If the region were to increase its share of exports of goods and services by one percentage point, it would generate $70 billion, Oxfam said. Total foreign aid and debt relief granted to Africa last year by the rich nations totaled $14.6 billion.
"Even modest increases in developing countries' share of the world export market will massively outweigh any conceivable increase in aid," the Oxfam report said.
But some African officials said that if the trade relationship between the developed and developing worlds was not managed better than it had been so far, Africa might get nowhere in its efforts to attract much-needed investment from abroad and to create economies vibrant enough to address the causes and symptoms of its extreme poverty.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The United States treasury secretary, Paul H. O'Neill, left, at a fish-smoking project in Accra, Ghana, with Bono, right, the rock star who advocates more aid to ease African poverty, during their tour of Africa. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LOBBYING (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COCOA MARKETS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); TRENDS (74%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (73%); TEXTILES (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (65%); POP & ROCK (60%); LEGISLATION (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

PERSON: BONO (71%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) STEVENSON, RICHARD; O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC); BONO (MUSICIAN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); GHANA (95%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); UGANDA (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%) AFRICA

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



655 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: The Fresh Air Fund; 
At Camp, Survival Skills Include a Solid Resume

BYLINE:  By ARTHUR BOVINO 

 BODY:
At a camp in Fishkill, N.Y., a group of teenagers were surrounded by woods and wildlife. But an assistant camp counselor was rehearsing them in survival skills that had little to do with nature -- unless it was the nature of growing up.
 As six of the teenagers sat in a circle inside a pine-scented cabin, the counselor, Tony Fong, posed a question: "What will you have to pay for if you live on your own?" 
 "Interview clothes," answered Brandon Ankle, a 10th grader at Rice High School in Harlem. 
"Student loans, but I'm going to get financial aid," said Christopher Medina, 15, a 10th grader at Manhattan Village Academy.
"Your hair, $200," said Kenyatta Legree, 17, an 11th grader at Grace Dodge Vocational High School in the Bronx. 
"Two hundred dollars!" the counselor said. 
During a weekend retreat earlier this month, the teenagers spent a lot of time learning how to survive, not in the wilderness, but in the real world. They are members of the PreOccupations Club, who were on a visit to Camp Mariah in connection with the Fresh Air Fund's Career Awareness Program. 
The Fresh Air Fund is a nonprofit agency that provides children from low-income neighborhoods in New York City with a chance to enjoy free vacations in the country. Many of the youngsters are matched with volunteer families. Others visit the fund's five camps in Fishkill.
Camp Mariah is unique among those camps because of its strong focus on continuing education, careers and decision-making. It is named for the singer Mariah Carey, who attended a publicly funded camp when she was young and donated $1 million to establish the site in 1994 and 1995. Boys and girls ages 12 to 14 attend for three summers, three and a half weeks each visit, to learn about things like computer skills, fashion design, journalism or television production. During the school year, they tour workplaces like hospitals, newspapers and law firms, where they follow professionals and try to zero in on their own career interests. 
"We looked at what the pressing need was, and I was concerned about youth unemployment," said Jenny Morgenthau, executive director of the Fresh Air Fund. "I thought we should help prepare kids for careers. 
"We want to make children aware of different careers," she added. "With that, the most important thing is for them to stay in school. Kids would say, 'I want to be a doctor,' but they wouldn't know what to do." The fund helps students with the college- application process, with preparing for the College Boards and with seeking financial aid. "We help them find out what interests them and what they need to do. It empowers them."
About 500 participants have graduated from the Career Awareness Program. The graduates become eligible for the PreOccupations Club, in which they can continue to build on the tools that will help them go to college and find employment. They can participate in that program, which began five years ago, through the 12th grade. 
Teenagers in the club meet with mentors in New York; they also visit Camp Mariah twice a year.
The themes for this month's weekend visit were outdoor education and independent living. Though an unexpected snow flurry limited outdoor activities, the members kept busy, splitting into four groups for a variety of exercises. 
Inside the warm cabin, one group took part in a lesson in living within their means. They assumed an annual income of about $34,000 that provided $2,000 to spend each month. When they went over that amount by $750, it was time for some sacrifices; they eliminated jewelry purchases, decided to use a supermarket discount card to cut grocery costs and reconsidered expensive hairdos. That left them with $100 as they began to discuss health insurance, impulse buying, saving and investing. 
A second group learned how to use compasses and maps, then competed outside with their newly acquired skills, searching for various campground destinations.
A third group focused on lessons in trust. In the dining hall, members took turns falling backward, having faith that other campers would catch them. Mixed in with the smiles were occasional over-the-shoulder glances -- just to make sure. Meanwhile, a fourth group prepared lunch.
"The activities help them learn to work with the people around them, to use everyone's talents and skills to the best advantage," said Doug Weitz, the director for the Career Awareness Program.
Teena Torres, 18, a graduate of the Career Awareness Program and a member of the PreOccupation Club, said she plans to room with another career awareness graduate, April Thompson, next fall at Howard University in Washington. 
"Camp Mariah was an excellent program," she said. "We did mock interviews that were videotaped, then we viewed them with criticism. We learned a lot about interviewing. For instance, I am a person that expresses a lot of what I have to say with my hands, but that was taking attention off of what I was saying. I had to learn how to express myself without using my hands as much."
Teena said that the preparation made a difference. When she went to a real interview, she said, "they paid attention to what I was saying."

To become a host family or register a child for The Fresh Air Fund, call (800) 367-0003. Tax-deductible contributions may be sent to 633 Third Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10017. More information is available at the fund's Web site, www.freshair.org.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of the Fresh Air Fund's PreOccupations Club study real-life survival skills at Camp Mariah, which is run by the fund. In one exercise, about trust, participants like Oscar Pinto relied on others to catch them. (Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (75%); STUDENT LOANS (75%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); FASHION & APPAREL (70%); FAMILY (70%); FASHION DESIGN (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (66%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (65%); LEGAL SERVICES (61%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: FRESH AIR FUND; CAMP MARIAH (FISHKILL, NY) 

PERSON: MARIAH CAREY (79%) BOVINO, ARTHUR 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



656 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: States Pursue Cloning Laws as Congress Debates 

BYLINE:  By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 25 

 BODY:
After nearly a year of emotional arguments in Congress but no new federal laws -- the national debate over the future of human cloning has shifted to the states. Six states have already banned cloning in one form or another, and this year alone 38 anticloning measures were introduced in 22 states.
 The resulting patchwork of laws, people on all sides of the issue say, complicates a nationwide picture already clouded by scientific and ethical questions over whether and how to restrict cloning or to ban it altogether. 
 Like their counterparts here, state legislators say they are deeply concerned about the prospect of cloned babies. They are also deeply divided over the ethics of cloning human embryos for research, which proponents say holds vast promise for treating diseases, and which detractors say raises the specter of "embryo farms." 
At the same time, they say they are frustrated with Congress, and hopeful that their legislative actions might ultimately force Washington to follow suit.
"State-by-state legislation is something that I believe we need to do to make a statement," said Jim Reynolds, a Republican state legislator in Oklahoma who this year tried to persuade his colleagues to ban all cloning experiments. "It may, in some small way, put the emphasis on this issue, to get the federal government to finally do something."
Last July, the House of Representatives overwhelmingly passed a bill that would ban human cloning for reproduction or research, and President Bush has urged the Senate to do the same. But the Senate is torn between a far-reaching cloning ban, sponsored by Senator Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas, and an alternative measure that would prohibit only reproductive cloning.
Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader, who supports the alternative, initially promised Mr. Brownback a vote by February or March, then set a deadline of Memorial Day. Now, Mr. Daschle says, the vote will take place in June. Mr. Brownback, irritated, is threatening to attach his bill as an amendment to other legislation to force a vote on it.
Cloning opponents around the country are irritated as well. "The Senate is dragging its feet," said John Redwine, a doctor and Republican state senator from Sioux City who was the chief sponsor of an anti-cloning bill in Iowa.
Dr. Redwine was so committed to his legislation that he turned down a coveted invitation to the White House last month, when Mr. Bush gathered cloning opponents to rally support for a Congressional ban.
Although he is running for Congress and would have relished an opportunity to meet the president, Dr. Redwine said he was too busy to attend because he was shepherding his bill on the floor of the Iowa Senate, which was set to adjourn the next day. "I really had only one shot at this bill," Dr. Redwine said. "I knew there was no way I could go to the White House."
The bill passed, and now cloning experiments are a felony in Iowa, punishable by up to 10 years in prison.
Other efforts have met with varying degrees of success. Legislation that would have banned cloning for any reason was defeated this year in Kentucky and Florida and killed in New Hampshire and Oklahoma before it came to a vote.
Besides Iowa, only Michigan has outlawed cloning for research and reproduction. Missouri prohibits state financing for experiments intended to clone babies. In California, a commission has recommended that the state's reproductive cloning ban, which expires at the end of this year, be extended and that research cloning be regulated.
Louisiana, Rhode Island and Virginia also prohibit reproductive cloning. But Virginia's law is unclear. It permits "technologies to clone molecules, including DNA, cells or tissues," but makes no mention of embryos. The National Conference of State Legislatures says Virginia bans only reproductive cloning, but some cloning opponents construe the law as a ban on research cloning.
Since 1997, when scientists announced the birth of Dolly the sheep, the first cloned mammal, the specter of cloned babies -- infants that are, in essence, genetic carbon copies of adults -- has loomed large in the public psyche and in the minds of lawmakers. That year, California became the first state to enact cloning legislation. The law banned reproductive cloning and established the commission to make recommendations about how to proceed when the law expires.
"It was very much a bipartisan bill," said Francis Pizzulli, a lawyer who is a member of the commission. "There was a lot of concern about the impact on the children to be."
Today, there is widespread agreement that cloning for reproduction is unsafe and should be banned. Now, the debate has shifted away from the ethics of baby-making and toward the morality of cloning embryos for their cells and tissues, which might be used to treat disease. The controversy pits religious conservatives and abortion opponents, who regard embryos as nascent human life, against patients' groups, scientists and the biotechnology industry.
Last November, a Massachusetts biotechnology company, Advanced Cell Technology, announced that it was trying to clone human embryos for research. Around the country, lawmakers swung into action.
Among them was Kathleen Souza, a self-described "adamant right-to-lifer" and Republican state legislator from New Hampshire. She sought help from Americans United for Life, a public-interest law firm in Chicago devoted to restricting abortion rights, which drafted a bill similar to the one that passed the House of Representatives.
"In the absence of a prohibition, this is legal," Mrs. Souza said. "I would hate to see what has happened in Massachusetts come to New Hampshire. I felt this was an emergency." 
Her fellow lawmakers disagreed, and Mrs. Souza's bill died, she said, at the hands of abortion rights advocates. "They said they were afraid that if we acknowledged an embryo was a human life, that somehow the pro-lifers could extend on this argument and impinge on a woman's right to choose," Mrs. Souza said. 
Some critics warn that the state-by-state approach will create havens for cloning research unless Congress intervenes. But R. Alta Charo, a professor of law and medical ethics at the University of Wisconsin who favors research cloning, says there is nothing wrong with a patchwork. 
"What it reflects is that the depth of the opposition varies considerably from place to place in the country, from region to region," Ms. Charo said. 
In the states, as in Washington, emotions have run high in the cloning debate. In Kentucky, where legislation to ban research cloning was defeated this year, some legislators wept as they talked about friends and relatives who were desperate for cures. In Oklahoma, Mr. Reynolds speaks with passion about his 76-year-old father, who suffers from Parkinson's disease and dementia.
"This is not necessarily an easy issue for me," said Mr. Reynolds, 41, who runs a painting business. "My dad cannot reason or understand. But if I said, 'Dad, we can create life to possibly find a cure to make you better, would you want me to do it?' I somehow believe in my heart that the answer would be no."
Anticloning measures are pending in several states, among them Massachusetts and New York, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.
Yet with states hard-pressed for revenues, the question of whether to restrict cloning has become a pocketbook issue as much as a religious one. The biotechnology industry argues that banning research cloning is bad for business. 
"States are very interested in growing their biotechnology economic base" said Patrick Kelly, director of state government relations for BIO, the industry's trade group in Washington. Cloning legislation, he said, puts state officials in a bind. "Does the state do something against the industry's better judgment? Or does it say, well, industry is important to us?"
The pocketbook pitch did not prevail in Iowa, however, where Dr. Redwine initially proposed banning not only cloning but also stem cell research on embryos left over from in vitro fertilization treatments. Dr. Redwine said he saw the measure as a logical extension of his long history in "dealing with pro-life issues" in the Iowa Legislature. 
The bill passed the Iowa Senate at first but was amended in the House. After several more amendments, the final bill banned reproductive and research cloning and remained silent on embryonic stem cell research. 
For Mark Braun, who led the University of Iowa's lobbying effort against the measure, that was victory enough. "We are able to do research using embryonic stem cells, and we believe that research will be fruitful," he said. "The proponents had a conversation among themselves, about do we want the whole thing or nothing? And in the end, they decided to go for half a loaf."

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "Cloning: A Legislative Patchwork"Six states have passed laws banning some human cloning. Twenty-two have considered measures this year to ban or restrict cloning, including some that already have laws. Map of the United States highlighting the states that have passed laws on human cloning or legislation for human cloning is being considered in 2002. (Source: National Conference of State Legislatures)(pg. 29)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLONING (96%); LEGISLATION (91%); HUMAN CLONING (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ETHICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BIOETHICS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%) REPRODUCTION (BIOLOGICAL); CLONING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATES (US); ETHICS; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (59%)

PERSON: SAMUEL BROWNBACK (78%); TOM DASCHLE (50%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) STOLBERG, SHERYL GAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



657 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Contrary St. Petersburg in Limelight 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG, May 25 

 BODY:
Volodya Putin loves his hometown. But like any love, this is a complicated relationship.
 Today, Mr. Putin -- Volodya is one nickname for Vladimir, the Russian president's first name -- brought President Bush here for a weekend devoted, at its root, to showing off his birth city. They toured the Hermitage state art museum, Russia's greatest and one of the world's best. Tonight they viewed ballet at the Mariinsky Theater, which any Petersburger will tell you rivals the Bolshoi, then glided past blocks of magnificent prerevolutionary buildings lining the canals and rivers that split this city into 42 islands, linked by more than 500 bridges. 
 You can't find canals in Moscow.
This is an old ritual for Mr. Putin. Mr. Bush is just the latest in a parade of world leaders brought here to sample the delights of Russia's imperial capital since Mr. Putin became president two and a half years ago. Mr. Putin has grand plans to invite the leaders of all Europe here next year, when the city celebrates the 300th anniversary of its founding by Czar Peter the Great.
Indeed, Mr. Putin has been trying to rebuild this city's greatness since his days as the top aide to the city's first democratic mayor, Anatoly Sobchak, whose goal in life was to rebuild the city as Russia's western front door.
"He's a real fan of St. Petersburg," said Valery N. Ostrovsky, a political scientist here.
Yet while St. Petersburg is clearly proud to have one of its own not just as president, but as an undeniably able one, it is harder to say that Mr. Putin's love is fully returned. A query about Mr. Putin to some residents, like 47-year-old Vera Rudova, a store clerk, strikes a gusher of praise: "A wonderful, remarkable guy. He's the first person who's tried to do something for the country. And he's made the city prettier -- there's been a lot of restoration here since he became president."
But ask others about the city's favorite son, and the reply is more evasive. "I wouldn't call him a son," said one taxi driver who only gave the name Oleg. "He's the city's representative."
Petersburgers voted overwhelmingly for Mr. Putin for president in the March 2000 elections. But two months later they rejected his favorite for governor of the St. Petersburg region, re-electing a politician, Vladimir Yakovlev, who had been a Putin critic. (The two have since made an uneasy peace.)
Muscovites openly resent the so-called Petersburg Mafia that Mr. Putin has placed in the top posts of Russian government and industry. So do many Petersburgers, who see them as something approaching runaways, and their loss as a brain drain to their rival metropolis.
Petersburgers respect Mr. Putin's economic liberalism and avowed democratic leanings. After all, this city held the first anti-Communist vote of any note in Soviet history, using the option of "none of the above" in 1981 to reject the city's Communist leaders.
But such historic liberalism also made it a favored target for the K.G.B. And even now Mr. Putin's own K.G.B. background gives many here quiet pause.
Don't blame Mr. Putin for all this standoffishness. By its nature, people here say, St. Petersburg can be contrary, unwilling to sacrifice its own cultural and historic uniqueness to join the Russian mainstream -- even to grab back some of the power lost when Lenin moved the capital to Moscow from here.
"There's a feeling of autonomy in this city," said Lev Louriye, a newspaper columnist. "It's a very strong local culture that's based on frustration -- on the siege of '41 to '44, when we lost nearly a million people, on losing the capital."
Mr. Putin came of age in this bell jar of a city, but in a special time. The 1970's were comparatively good to the Soviet Union, blessed with an oil-enriched economy and its American rival mired in Vietnam and an energy crisis. Leonid Brezhnev loosened his grip on the reins, and young Petersburgers like Mr. Putin got a glimpse of Western life and values, and liked much of what they saw.
That made him a liberal, which people here like. But it appears also to have made him determined to turn St. Petersburg back outward. 
Mr. Putin is showering St. Petersburg with support, from money for restorations and roads to anointment as Russia's gateway city for international conferences and other global events.
Thus did Mr. Bush come here, and the leaders of Germany, Britain, Austria and other nations before him, with still more certain to come later. If this continues, people here may find their town changing "from a provincial city with a great past to a great European city," as Lev I. Saulkin, a political scientist here, described Mr. Putin's aspirations.
Petersburgers are contrarians. They are not so sure about that.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Vladimir V. Putin watching a judo tournament in St. Petersburg at the club where he practiced judo as a student. (ITAR-TASS via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); ELECTIONS (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MAYORS (65%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (64%); RANKINGS (60%); RIVERS (55%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%) WINES, MICHAEL; PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) RUSSIA; ST PETERSBURG (RUSSIA)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



658 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1728 words

HEADLINE: BUSH JOINS PUTIN IN URGING PAKISTAN TO CURB MILITANTS 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER and MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG, Russia, May 25 

 BODY:
President Bush and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia jointly stepped into the India-Pakistan crisis today during their one-day tour of this imperial Russian capital. Mr. Bush urged Pakistan's president to "stop the incursions" of Islamic insurgents into Indian-administered Kashmir, while Mr. Putin deplored Pakistan's decision to conduct new missile tests and encouraged the Indian and Pakistani leaders to attend regional talks next month.
 Their joint comments during a tour of the Hermitage, including the Winter Palace, which was stormed by Lenin's guards during the 1917 Russian Revolution, marked the sharpest words Mr. Bush has directed at Gen. Pervez Musharraf since the Pakistani president sided with the United States last fall during the military action in Afghanistan. 
 Mr. Bush's aides have said that Mr. Bush has treated his new ally gingerly in the past week, but Pakistan's test-firing today of a surface-to-surface missile at a time of extreme tension with India caused him to speak more forcefully. 
 Pakistan's military reported that it had successfully test-fired another short-range surface-to-surface missile on Sunday, its second test in as many days. 
A total of one million troops have been massed along the border by the two nuclear-armed countries, which have fought three wars since independence from Britain in 1947 -- two over Kashmir.
"We're deeply concerned about the rhetoric," Mr. Bush said. "It is very important for President Musharraf to stop -- do what he said he's going to do in his speech on terror, and that is stop the incursions across the Line of Control," which divides Kashmir between India and Pakistan.
Today, according to The Associated Press, the two countries traded mortar fire, killing at least three suspected Islamic militants and two Indian soldiers, an Indian Army spokesman said. An Indian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, meanwhile, dismissed the Pakistan missile test, saying, "It could possibly be directed at domestic audiences in Pakistan."
Mr. Putin said that on June 3 he would attend a regional conference -- at which the United States is not a participant -- where he hoped to meet with General Musharraf and Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee of India.
Neither leader, he noted, has yet committed himself to attending the meeting in Kazakhstan, but it is seen as the natural opportunity to bring the Indian and Pakistani leaders together at a moment when a separate meeting seems politically impossible for the two men.
"The testing while there is escalating tension really aggravates the situation," Mr. Putin said in comments that he clearly had coordinated with Mr. Bush. "We shall be working together to take steps in order to prevent the escalation of the conflict."
On a day of celebrating the depth of their new partnership, Mr. Bush and Mr. Putin clearly reveled in demonstrating that they are working together on a major international crisis, one in which the two countries would have taken opposite sides during the cold war.
This afternoon, repeating a performance they first conducted at a high school in Crawford, Tex., last November, the two presidents spent the better part of an hour fielding questions from students at St. Petersburg State University, where, remarkably, not a single questioner asked about the arms control treaty signed on Friday in Moscow.
Instead, the discussion veered toward how quickly the United States would lift export controls on high technology goods headed to Russia, when Russia would be welcomed into the World Trade Organization, and how the two leaders viewed themselves as managers.
But as the two men toured the majestic palaces of this city, and headed off to a performance of "The Nutcracker" ballet with their wives and foreign policy teams, the tension along the India-Pakistan border was clearly on everyone's mind.
Speaking to reporters here this afternoon, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said, "I can tell you I am concerned now as I was" back in January, when war seemed imminent but was temporarily defused.
"We've devoted a lot of time and energy to it," he said. "The key thing we are looking for now is to shut down the action across the Line of Control and hopefully that will give us a basis for seeing de-escalation on the part of the Indians."
Mr. Powell said if there was calm on the border, there would be opportunities for further diplomatic efforts to reduce tensions.
On another front, the secretary of state acknowledged that the White House and the Kremlin had ended the working part of this two-and-one-half day summit meeting essentially agreeing to disagree about American assertions that Russian technology and labor are aiding Iran's efforts to build nuclear weapons.
As Air Force One touched down in Moscow on Thursday evening, the administration was declaring Russian aid to Iran to be the world's foremost weapons-proliferation problem. Today, Secretary Powell said that Russia and the United States agreed that they opposed the spread of mass-destruction weapons to any nation, "and that includes nuclear-weapons technology to Iran."
But Russian experts also argued that they are not only just as sensitive to proliferation problems as Americans, but are politically closer to Iran as well, and so better able to gauge the extent of those problems, Secretary Powell said.
Secretary Powell also expressed concern that the United States has yet to receive complete information from Russia on the security of its stocks of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons materials and technology. That issue will be a subject for the nations' defense and foreign-affairs ministers as part of a special working group, he said.
Mr. Bush's and Secretary Powell's concerns clouded an otherwise sparkling day in St. Petersburg that was devoted almost exclusively to more of the presidential bonding that has become the signature of this summit meeting.
It commenced in the most somber fashion. Minutes after he touched down in St. Petersburg this morning, after spending the night at the Putins' residence in Moscow, Mr. Bush appeared at Piskariovskoye Memorial Cemetery north of town.
Here, amid rows of burial mounds spanning the breadth of some 15 football fields, he watched two goose-stepping soldiers lay a wreath to the 490,000 people interred here who perished during the Nazis' 900-day siege of Leningrad, as the city was called, from 1941 to 1944.
In all, as many as 800,000 people died during the siege, many from starvation, before the Nazis finally gave up without taking the city.
By their midday appearance at St. Petersburg State University, Mr. Putin's alma mater, the sobriety had dissipated, and the two men were shedding the "Mr. President" formality of summit protocol and calling each other George and Vladimir.
When one student asked the presidents to address a so-called brain drain from Russia, including to the United States, Mr. Putin's reply was immediate: "I'll tell you right away," he said. "He'll say it's good. I'll say it's bad."
In serious moments, however, the men directed their answers as much to each other as to their audience.
Asked, for example, when Russia would start exporting technology and advanced products instead of the lumber, ores and petroleum that now make up the vast bulk of its trade, Mr. Putin first blamed Soviet leaders for walling the nation off from the research and science advances of the outside world.
But "what we need above all for Russia," he added, turning to Mr. Bush, "is an absolutely nondiscriminatory access to world markets and U.S. markets. And we don't need preferences, we don't need subsidies, we don't need special favors. We just want normal, simple, ordinary, fair trade relations."
Russia has chafed at what it regards as a sheaf of unneeded hindrances to trade with the West, from lack of membership in the World Trade Organization to the absence of an American declaration that Russia has a market-based economy, a prerequisite for lowering some trade restrictions. Mr. Bush supports lifting those barriers, but action has been slow to come.
Responding to the same question, Mr. Bush praised Russians for privatizing nearly three-fourths of their economy and for enacting a flat income tax that is perhaps the lowest in all Europe.
But he, too, turned to his partner, saying he was troubled by a Russian tax on its own exports, which raises their prices abroad, and by the country's dilapidated infrastructure, which he said "needs to be modernized as quickly as possible."
For the most part, however, the two leaders used the university session to underscore their growing rapport. "I tell Vladimir all the time -- I mean, Mr. President, all the time -- that Russia's most precious resource is the brain power of this country," Mr. Bush said at one point.
"I'm absolutely convinced that the future of this country is incredibly bright -- first, because of the great imagination and intellect of the Russian people. And second, because you've got a leader who understands that freedom is going to enhance the future of the country."
Mr. Putin gave Mr. Bush two documents from Russian historical archives covering the years of the American Revolution when, Mr. Putin said, Catherine the Great refused England's request to intervene against the rebellious colonies.
"The world was changing over time. Our relations were changing over time," Mr. Putin said. "You can call our relationship today a multicomponent kind of relationship depending on many, many different aspects. But I want to name the one and most important aspect: over the last year and a half or two years, what we've experienced is a huge growth in confidence and trust."
Earlier today, Mr. Putin offered what he seemed to regard as a compelling example of that growing trust. It involved a fish.
At dinner in Moscow the previous evening, Mr. Putin said, caviar was served, and he told his American companions the story of how the culinary delicacy was frequently produced: by gutting a live fish, removing the roe and tossing the fish back into the water.
"Everyone was laughing, thinking that I was really inventing things in the spot, something really improbable," he said. "I was telling the truth -- that's how we treated the environment."
Of all the assembled guests, Mr. Putin said, "there was only one person who wouldn't laugh and said, 'I do believe you, Mr. President.' "
It was, of course, Mr. Bush.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 27, 2002

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article yesterday about comments by President Bush and President Vladimir V. Putin on Indian-Pakistani tensions referred incorrectly in some editions to the arms tests that Pakistan has resumed. They are missile tests, not nuclear tests.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush and President Vladimir V. Putin visited a memorial to the Leningrad siege yesterday. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. 1); President Bush greeting students yesterday after an appearance with his Russian counterpart, Vladimir V. Putin, at St. Petersburg State University. The presidents were quizzed by their audience about trade issues. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. 12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); RELIGION (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); ARMIES (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ISLAM 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (79%) SANGER, DAVID E; WINES, MICHAEL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%) KASHMIR (94%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); INDIA (96%); PAKISTAN (94%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%) RUSSIA; PAKISTAN; AFGHANISTAN; INDIA; KASHMIR AND JAMMU

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



659 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 3194 words

HEADLINE: The World's Game Is Not Just A Game 

BYLINE:  By Simon Kuper; Simon Kuper writes for The Financial Times and The Observer and is the author of "Football Against the Enemy."

 BODY:
In early 1994, Osama bin Laden spent three months in London, where he visited supporters and bankers and went to watch the famous soccer club Arsenal four times. Before returning to Sudan just a step ahead of being extradited to Saudi Arabia, he bought his sons gifts from the club's souvenir shop. His affection for the game did not stop him from getting involved in a plot to massacre the American and British teams at the 1998 World Cup in France; still, bin Laden told friends he had never seen passion like that of soccer fans. 
 This seems to have been a common view inside Al Qaeda. On the videotape the Department of Defense released in December of bin Laden reminiscing with a foreign sheik about the Sept. 11 attacks, soccer crops up twice. The first time, bin Laden recalls a follower telling him a year earlier: "I saw in a dream, we were playing a soccer game against the Americans. When our team showed up in the field, they were all pilots!" In the dream, Al Qaeda won the game. 
 On the same videotape, another Qaeda member recounts watching a television broadcast of the World Trade Center attacks. "The scene was showing an Egyptian family sitting in their living room. They exploded with joy. Do you know when there is a soccer game and your team wins? It was the same expression of joy." 
Bin Laden and his henchmen had hit on a truth about soccer. The sport, which in the U.S. is chiefly a placid entertainment for children, arouses in the rest of the world collective passions that are matched by nothing short of war. And unlike any other sport -- indeed, unlike almost any cultural phenomenon -- soccer is distinguished by its political malleability. It is used by dictators and revolutionaries, a symbol of oligarchy and anarchy. It gets presidents elected or thrown out, and it defines the way people think, for good or ill, about their countries.
The World Cup, which begins on Friday in Japan and in South Korea, will be watched by billions. The spread of satellite dishes has taken the world's best teams to the farthest-flung places. People in Shenyang or Khartoum, who have no idea that Manchester is a town in England, now support Manchester United. A statue of the team's star, David Beckham, adorns a Buddhist temple in Bangkok. Osama bin Laden, if he is alive, will presumably be among those billions sitting in front of the television, and all of them, with the exception of most Americans, will appreciate the roiling political context in which the game is so often played. 
Leaders everywhere attach themselves to soccer. In 1986 Silvio Berlusconi, then an Italian media mogul, took over his favorite club, AC Milan, which was struggling to surmount a 1979 bribery scandal. By 1989 Milan was rich, organized and champion of Europe. Berlusconi then founded the political party Forza Italia (named after a soccer chant), called his candidates the Azzurri ("the Blues," nickname of the national team) and in 1994 got himself elected prime minister. The far-right Austrian politician Jorg Haider has buffed up his image as a regular guy by presiding over the FC K* rnten soccer club; Brazilian politicians habitually campaign in shirts of favorite clubs; and in British local elections this month the town of Hartlepool, given its first chance to elect a mayor, rejected the ruling Labour Party candidate in favor of the local soccer team's mascot, a man in a monkey suit. 
But perhaps the best place to observe the interplay of soccer and politics today is Argentina, whose national team has won two World Cups and is the joint favorite with France to win this one, and whose economy is plunged into a depression deeper than that of the U.S. in the 1930's.
On a gray English day last November, a mustachioed Argentine multimillionaire named Mauricio Macri visited Oxford University. Like Berlusconi in Italy, Macri took over a struggling soccer club -- Boca Juniors from Buenos Aires, which became for a time the best in Latin America. Now, seven years later, Macri has decided to enter politics, and over a lunch of soggy chops, he explained that he would first try for governor of Buenos Aires, and after that, who knew? 
A month after this conversation, the Argentine peso collapsed. The country's middle class was ejected into the third world, four presidents fell in a fortnight and demonstrations erupted against Argentina's politicians, its banks and the International Monetary Fund. Soon a fashion emerged: protesters began wearing the national team's famous blue-and-white striped shirt with Basta! -- Enough!" -- written on the back. The last vestige of Argentine glory -- its soccer team -- was being used to humiliate the establishment.
By the time I arrived in Buenos Aires late last month, Macri, though he as yet held no political office, was in Washington discussing the catastrophe with members of Congress and the former Federal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker. Many Argentines told me that before long Argentina might have its first "soccer president."
If the national team is currently being used as an instrument of dissent, in 1978, when Argentina won the World Cup, the ruling generals fanned a nationalist euphoria, which distracted the public from the torture and "disappearances" of thousands of "subversives." On the night of the '78 final, Graciela Daleo, a political prisoner at the time, was put in a car and driven around a celebrating Buenos Aires by her captors. Sticking her head out through the roof of the car, she realized that were she to shout: "Help me! I've been disappeared!" none of the people in the streets would hear her or care. Meanwhile, Claudio M. Tamburrini, a former goalkeeper and now a philosopher in Sweden, who escaped from a torture camp shortly before the World Cup, was among those out celebrating. It was the first night he felt safe again outdoors.
Recalling that night, an Argentine general named Enciso told me, "All the country was on the streets. Radicals embraced with Peronists, Catholics with Protestants and with Jews, and all had only one flag: the flag of Argentina!" He said the mood was repeated during the Falklands war four years later. So similar were the emotions that the official World Cup song, "Vamos, vamos Argentina" ("Go On, Argentina") was cranked out for the war. 
While many in Argentina seem to feel that their country's crisis is irreparable, Argentina's players seem to believe that winning the World Cup this year could once again rejuvenate their country. In recent years they have often entered the field carrying a banner in support of schoolteachers or employees of Aerolineas Argentinas or some other stricken cause. This may be the world's only entirely left-wing national team. The halfback Javier Zanetti has opened a home for hungry children, and when I was in Argentina the forward Claudio (The Louse) Lopez pronounced: "We want to win the World Cup for the people. I swear that first comes the shirt and only after that the players, because everything this group has done was to bring joy to the people, nothing more." 
Soccer, according to an old quasi-Marxist notion, is the opium of the people, used by rulers to manipulate the masses. Certainly rulers try. Benito Mussolini often posed with Italy's soccer stars -- world champions in 1934 and 1938 -- and the balcony scene with the team has become a global ritual. 
The Nazis never managed to use the game to their advantage, remaining forever flummoxed by soccer's unpredictability. After Germany lost 2-1 to Switzerland on Hitler's birthday in 1941, Goebbels ordered "that above all no sporting exchanges be made when the outcome is at all in doubt." When Germany then lost at home to Sweden in 1942, he reportedly commented: "One hundred thousand have left the stadium depressed; and as a victory in this football match is closer to these people's hearts than the conquest of some city in the East, such events should be prohibited in the interest of the internal mood." Two months later Nazi Germany ceased playing internationals.
It is a rare dictator who ignores soccer. Various members of the Ceausescu family adopted their own Romanian clubs; Saddam Hussein's son Uday has had Iraq's players tortured after crucial defeats; Stalin's secret police chief Lavrenti Beria, honorary chairman of Dynamo Moscow, had players of rival clubs sent to Siberia. Even Britain's prime minister Harold Wilson partly blamed England's surprise defeat in the World Cup for his surprise defeat in the general election of 1970 a few days later.
But rulers do not have soccer to themselves. Like the ball itself, the game is always being contested. It can just as easily be used by masses against rulers, particularly in places where the masses have few other means of expression -- for instance, in the new American hunting grounds of the gulf and the Middle East. If the Bush administration wants to track the undercurrents in countries like Iran, Libya or Afghanistan, it must follow soccer.
"The last display of public discontent and resentment towards the Libyan government," reported the U.S. State Department in 1999, "occurred when a riot broke out over a penalty called at a soccer match in Tripoli on July 9, 1996. The rare instance of public unrest began when a contentious goal was scored by a team that Qaddafi's sons supported and the referee called the play in their favor."
Fans started chanting anti-Qaddafi slogans, whereupon the ruler's sons and their bodyguards began shooting (some say at each other), and the crowd stampeded out onto the streets. The government later admitted that eight people had died, while others spoke of up to 50 deaths. 
The man who has given Libyan soccer its particular piquancy is Al Saadi Qaddafi, the colonel's soccer-mad son. Al Saadi, who this year persuaded his father to buy a stake in the great Turin club Juventus, not only supports and finances the Libyan team Al Ahli but also has often played for it. This means that the only place in Libya where tens of thousands can gather to oppose a symbol of the regime is the stadium at Al Ahli matches. When a donkey wearing a team shirt with the No. 10 was kicked onto the pitch during one game last season, everyone understood that it represented Al Saadi. 
The game probably matters even more in Iran, a state gripped in recent years by what has been called "a soccer revolution." This began in 1997, when the Iranian team beat Australia to qualify for the '98 World Cup. Thousands of women broke into the stadium to join the celebrations, some removed their veils and, at street parties across the country, men and women danced and kissed, defying government warnings and clerical taboos. 
Last fall, as Iran again looked as if it would qualify for the World Cup, the street parties resumed. Initially the fans just seemed to be expressing national pride, but in some towns the mood changed. Fans attacked state-owned banks and other public buildings, chanting, "Death to the Mullahs." There were even chants in support of the exiled monarchy. Hundreds, perhaps thousands, were arrested over several nights.
Eventually Iran had only to beat tiny Bahrain, a team it should have dominated, to qualify for the World Cup. The tournament would have brought weeks of street parties and demonstrations. So when Iran lost the game 3-1, rumors abounded in Tehran that the mullahs had pressured the players to lose, in what may be a unique case of a regime wanting its national team to fail. No one knows, but Iran's forwards appeared so unwilling to try to score that at one point the Iranian television commentator exclaimed, "Why doesn't someone shoot that ball?" 
In November, in a playoff against Ireland, Iran failed in its last attempt to reach the World Cup. Nicola Byrne, an Irishwoman who was among the 40 or so women admitted to the Tehran stadium by special dispensation of the Iranian authorities, would later report in London's Observer, "Under an enormous mural of the late Ayatollah Khomeini, Iranians ripped out and set fire to seats, tore down banners depicting images of the country's senior mullahs and trashed the wind screens of several hundred cars outside." 
In countries like Iran, soccer fandom is replacing cigarette smoking as the iconic image of Western youth culture. A British friend of mine was approached on the street in the Iranian town Isfahan last fall by a student who bombarded him with questions: "You are from England? After Israel and America, you are our biggest enemy. Don't you think George Bush is the biggest terrorist of all for supporting Israel? Do you think Beckham should play on the right for Manchester United, or in the center?"
Trying to answer at least the last two questions, my friend said: "Sure. On the right?"
"What?" said the flabbergasted student. "And Paul Scholes in the center?"Of course, the poorer and more suppressed a country, the more the game matters. The coming World Cup will not revolutionize politics in Belgium, Sweden or the U.S., yet soccer has extra dimensions even in Western democracies. The national team is the nation made flesh. When people debate the style theirs should play -- and in many countries this debate rages ceaselessly -- they are often arguing about the kind of country theirs should be. Should Brazil play its traditional freewheeling game and hang the rules, or should it adopt a more "machinelike" European style? In England over the last 10 years, the soccer debate has strangely mirrored the political debate. While politicians argued over whether to ditch tradition in the shape of the pound and adopt the euro, in soccer the debate was about ditching the traditional muscular British game for a more cerebral European style.
The debate over the euro continues. But in soccer, the traditional English way failed. Its last exponent, Kevin Keegan, a great player of the 70's, resigned as the national team's manager after a home defeat to Germany in October 2000. He was succeeded by a studious-looking Swede, Sven Goran Eriksson, who got England playing thoughtful soccer that culminated in September in a 5-1 thrashing of Germany in Munich. ("Munich 1-5: Two World Wars and One World Cup," say the T-shirts in English pubs.) 
If Eriksson returns from the World Cup still a hero, he will have made a "yes" vote in any referendum on the euro that much more likely. This may sound absurd, but remember that when England plays a big World Cup match, half the population watches on television, while only a handful of economists even pretend to grasp the technicalities of the euro. For most people, the question of whether to join the currency boils down to gut feelings about the vague concept of "Europe."
The U.S. would seem to be immune to the social resonances of soccer, given that the game struggles even to make the papers here. More than 15 million Americans play soccer, yet the average Major League Soccer match draws only 15,000 people, and no American player is a household name. 
"Small" soccer thrives in the U.S. without "big" soccer. This looks like a paradox. Indeed, many proponents of the American game fear it is unsustainable, and that grass-roots soccer will die unless M.L.S. takes off. But the truth is that soccer has succeeded as a suburban kids' game precisely because there is no big American pro league. It appeals to suburbanites because it is free of certain aspects of modern America: it is not violent, not drenched in money, not dominated by men and not very African-American. Instead of Shaquille O'Neal or Allen Iverson, American pro soccer features lots of white college boys drawing modest salaries. 
The game in the U.S. has become shorthand for happy families. A typical ad, which once might have taken baseball as a symbol of upper-middle-class values, now features a beaming child kicking a ball, with a text that begins: "While Jessica takes an afternoon off to focus on scoring goals, her parents' Financial Advisor at Merrill Lynch focuses on meeting her family's goals." The American game has come to be seen as a protective mother's heaven: nonviolent, suitable for children and female-friendly. In no other country but the U.S. is the women's national soccer team better known than the men's.
Over the next five weeks, billions of people across the globe will be waking in the middle of the night to watch their teams play on TV. Businesses will close, televisions in cafes and bars will be constantly tuned to the games, whole nations will be focused on soccer above all else. Of the 32 countries represented, only one will largely ignore the World Cup: the United States. Indeed, Americans barely know their team is playing. For foreigners, meanwhile, the World Cup is the one time that they get to treat the U.S. like a lightweight. 
Such is the anonymity of the American men's team that few people know how close it came to tragedy at the previous World Cup, in France in 1998. European police have never said much about the terrorist plot they rolled up two weeks before the competition kicked off. The plot was revealed when seven members of an Algerian terrorist group were arrested in a raid on a house in Belgium on March 3, 1998. On May 26, the police launched raids on dozens of suspects' homes. Nearly 100 people were taken in for questioning. "It was a matter of urgency," said a French government spokesman later that day. "Now we can approach the World Cup more serenely."
Many Algerian terrorists had served in Al Qaeda. Bin Laden, writes his biographer Adam Robinson, "had funded and helped organize the plan when it was presented to him, and agreed to offer additional funding and arms, in addition to the Algerians sending key personnel for expert training in Al Qaeda camps." Robinson says that the attack was to take place on June 15, when England was playing Tunisia in Marseille. The plan was to massacre English players on the pitch, then burst into the hotel where the American players would be watching the game and murder them. 
Another bin Laden biographer, Yossef Bodansky, writes that the plan had reactivated "dormant terrorist networks." He says one reason that Al Qaeda bombed the U.S. Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in August 1998, killing 224 people, was "the failure of the primary operation, an attack on the soccer World Cup."
Bin Laden may have no profile in soccer today beyond a song heard occasionally earlier this season from the Arsenal stands -- He's hiding near Kabul/He loves the Arsenal/Osama/Oh oh oh oh" -- but he has already transformed the coming World Cup. He and other terrorists know that the World Cup is the place where they can make their biggest mark. Why, they will be powering up the generators and gathering behind the neighborhood's one TV set to watch it themselves. 
But it is more likely that the tournament will be what it always is: a carnival of peoples, the one place where Swedes, Russians, Tunisians and Ecuadoreans will hug and kiss and swap shirts on neutral soil. Even Americans will be allowed to join the party. If the U.S. forward Clint Mathis scores a beautiful goal, Iranians, Iraqis and Libyans will rave about it. Soccer has many uses, and one of them, fleeting as it may be, is universal love. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Italy, as in most countries that are not the United States, a soccer match is a combination of national holiday and call to arms. (Lyle Ashton Harris) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (94%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS FANS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); EXTRADITION (72%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (71%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (71%); POLITICS (62%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (60%); RELIGION (60%); SCANDALS (50%) SOCCER; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; WORLD CUP (SOCCER); TELEVISION 

COMPANY: MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%)

TICKER: MANU (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (51%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (51%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (91%); DAVID BECKHAM (79%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (50%) KUPER, SIMON 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (73%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (72%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (66%); KHARTOUM, SUDAN (58%) NORTHEAST CHINA (72%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (66%); LIAONING, CHINA (56%) UNITED STATES (95%); SUDAN (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); ITALY (79%); FRANCE (79%); ENGLAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); EGYPT (78%); THAILAND (73%); CHINA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



660 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT; 
Anyone Want To Run A Retailer?

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
THE list of retailers that have had to look for new leaders grew longer last week after Millard S. Drexler said he would step down as chief executive of Gap Inc. as soon as a successor was found. 
 Gap, the nation's biggest specialty retail chain, has been floundering. Dana Telsey, a specialty goods retailing analyst at Bear Stearns, took some time last week to talk about the industry. Following are excerpts from the conversation. 

Q. Companies from J. Crew to Sears, Roebuck to J. C. Penney have looked long and hard to find chief executives. Why have these searches been so difficult?

A. A lot of young people now in their 30's and 40's didn't see retail as the most lucrative profession. So now the hunting ground for retail merchant superstars is limited. They are a rare bird.

Q. How important is good management?

A. There are three elements of retail success: the right concept, which is successful if you have repeat customers; execution, so the systems are in place allowing you not to have too much merchandise that would require markdowns, but not too little so that you miss sales; and management. You want to have management in place who are shareowners and have experience to cope with the ups and downs in the business.

Q. Despite management problems, haven't most retail stocks outperformed the overall stock market?

A. So far this year, the apparel retailing stocks I follow are up about 5 percent, home furnishings names are up 15 percent and luxury goods companies are up 20 percent.

Q. Why have the stocks been such stellar performers?

A. Well, the consumer has held up well through this recession, and is still spending. And a lot of companies cut back on their expansion plans after Sept. 11. Ann Taylor is opening only 45 stores this year, instead of the 90 they had planned. Limited is opening less than 50 stores, and Abercrombie & Fitch and American Eagle also slowed down the rate of new store openings. Getting productivity out of the existing store base is one of the keys to profitability.
Also, people have wanted to invest in retail, partly because you can touch and feel the products, and the balance sheets are not that complicated. My companies typically generate cash. 

Q. Is the environment still so competitive that these companies are finding it difficult to raise prices?

A. Discounters like Kohl's, Wal-Mart and Target are keeping everyone sharp on their pricing. Sales growth is coming from selling more units, not higher prices.

Q. So, is the run mostly over for retailing stocks?

A. Right now, apparel retailers are trading at about 18 times forecasted 2002 earnings and 15 times 2003 earnings. Historically, they have traded at between 18 and 20 times forward numbers.
Home furnishings names are trading at 27 times this year's earnings and 23 times 2003's, which is close to their historic average. And luxury-goods companies are trading at around 34 times 2002 earnings and 27 times 2003. It's hard to come up with a historical comparison, because many of these companies haven't been public for very long. 
If you look at the second half of this year, we think apparel manufacturers have the potential to outperform. They have easy sales comparisons, lean inventories and are operating fewer new stores. It could make for quite an attractive opportunity.

Q. What is wrong with the Gap?

A. Gap was supposed to be a store for the basics for the family. But with Old Navy, Banana Republic, they have become a very large company. They need to reidentify their customer and have them come in on a regular basis.
Right now there is a huge opportunity for Gap to improve their situation. Their goal is to achieve a higher rate of full-priced sales. They say that in the third and fourth quarter they will have the merchandise in their stores that better reflects the image they want each brand to represent.

Q. Do you like Gap as a stock?

A. We are watching the Gap closely, but it is very speculative.
One very big company we like is Limited, which has restructured itself over the past few years and is coming out as a well-run organization with more than $1.2 billion in cash. They have gone through their evolution and are now poised for growth. And the depth of management talent there is quite strong. 

Q. Do you have any other favorite stocks?

A. On the home furnishings side, we like Bed Bath & Beyond and Williams-Sonoma. In the luxury category we like Coach, Tiffany and Gucci. And we also like Ann Taylor, the apparel company.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dana Telsey 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (87%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); BONDS (61%) STOCKS AND BONDS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE 

COMPANY: GAP INC (93%); ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (84%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (57%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: GAP INC (GPS) 

TICKER: GPS (NYSE) (93%); ANF (NYSE) (84%); AFT (FRA) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (93%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (93%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%) SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES; 

PERSON: MICKEY DREXLER (73%) GILPIN, KENNETH N; TELSEY, DANA 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



661 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: FIVE QUESTIONS for JOHN S. KAVULICH II; 
Room for Whom on Cuba's Ground Floor?

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY DePALMA 

 BODY:
THERE were cheers in Havana when former President Jimmy Carter said the American trade embargo should be lifted before Fidel Castro's government makes democratic reforms. A few days later, there were cheers in Miami when President Bush vowed to keep the embargo unless Mr. Castro first makes democratic reforms. 
 Caught between those positions, American businesses for whom Cuba has been tantalizingly close, yet officially off limits for four decades, were left to wonder about the future. John S. Kavulich II, president of the U.S.-Cuba Trade and Economic Council, a business organization in New York that focuses on Cuba without taking political positions, spoke last week about the outlook.
 ANTHONY DePALMA

Q. Is the embargo any closer to ending now than it was before Mr. Carter's visit?

A. Yes. The relationship between the two countries really is about moments. President Carter's visit was a significant moment, but it was not a seminal moment. The relationship will continue to change incrementally because that's the way both governments seem to want it to change.

Q. If the embargo were lifted tomorrow, which American companies would get a running start?

A. Some that will be active in the future are active now. They are commodities companies like Archer Daniels Midland, Riceland Foods, Gold Kist Inc. and about 18 others that have sold food to Cuba since late last year. There also are branded food companies that haven't sold anything yet but are likely to do so. They include RJR Nabisco, PepsiCo and Mars, which owns Uncle Ben's Rice, a prerevolutionary favorite in Cuba. Other American companies that have affiliates or relationships with companies in Cuba will be well positioned to move fast. They include General Motors, Ford, Daimler-Chrysler, G.E., Microsoft and the Carlson Companies, which control Radisson hotels and T.G.I. Friday's restaurants. Western Union, AT&T, WorldCom and Sprint all provide some communications services today. And while McDonald's has no operations in Cuba now, its global corporate strategy to always be first into new markets means that it can be expected to be among the first to go in.

Q. You mentioned resumption of cash-only American food sales. How does Cuba pay?

A. The $90 million worth of food and agricultural products purchased by Cuba during the last seven months have reduced Cuba's overall purchases from its existing suppliers by $90 million. Some of the funds that Cuba has used to pay U.S. companies have come from funds that were supposed to have been directed toward paying current creditors. That means suppliers in Canada, France, Brazil, Argentina, Spain and other countries are not enthusiastic about having some of what is owed to them being used to gain political influence in the United States.

Q. Cuba has 11.2 million people and poverty is serious. What makes Cuba so attractive to American companies?

A. Cuban awareness of U.S. brand names is among the highest for any non-English-speaking country, which makes the Cuban market immensely attractive for some U.S. companies. And because so many Cubans have family members in the U.S., their purchasing decisions are going to be influenced by that familiarity with certain brands. The unrestricted trade relationship between the U.S. and Cuba will likely be 80 percent U.S. exports to Cuba. Only certain products, like beverages, tobacco, citrus, coffee and perhaps some health care products will be exported to the United States. Sugar producers in Florida and Louisiana, along with citrus producers in Florida and California, are not going to be enthusiastic about additional competition.

Q. President Bush said trading with Cuba helps keep Mr. Castro in power. Are American sellers of food to Cuba aiding a dictator?

A. The overwhelming majority of the food products purchased during the last seven months have been used by the 11.2 million inhabitants of Cuba, not the 1.8 million foreign tourists who visited Cuba and left behind U.S. dollars that may well help sustain a system of government that President Bush finds, uh, unproductive.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John S. Kavulich II 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (72%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (71%); FAST FOOD (70%); TRENDS (67%); RESTAURANTS (65%); AGRICULTURE (64%); HOTELS & MOTELS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (82%); CARLSON COS INC (82%); PILGRIM'S PRIDE CORP (67%); PEPSICO INC (54%); KRAFT NABISCO (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); WESTERN UNION CO (53%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US-CUBA TRADE AND ECONOMIC COUNCIL 

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (82%); PPC (NASDAQ) (67%); PEP (NYSE) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); WU (NYSE) (53%); VZC (LSE) (53%); VZ (NYSE) (53%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (82%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (82%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (82%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (82%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (82%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (82%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (82%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (82%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (82%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (67%); NAICS112340 POULTRY HATCHERIES (67%); NAICS112310 CHICKEN EGG PRODUCTION (67%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (54%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (90%); FIDEL CASTRO (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) KAVULICH, JOHN S II 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); SPAIN (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (57%) CUBA

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



662 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends; 
The Aid Debate: Helping Hand, or Hardly Helping?

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL M. WEINSTEIN; Michael M. Weinstein is director of the Greenberg Center for Geoeconomic Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations.

 BODY:
"Happy to receive you, World Bank," sang dozens of mostly shoeless youngsters as a group of journalists and bank representatives approached a rural Ugandan school earlier this month on a trip sponsored by the World Bank. There's something jarring when local politicians, teachers and children genuflect before minor bank officials. But it's hard to blame them. Western donors wield oversize influence because they provide vital money to an H.I.V.-ravaged country where people live on a dollar a day and 40 percent of the children are stunted from malnutrition.
 Yet there is a serious debate over the value of foreign aid, symbolized by an odd couple of traveling companions, Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill and the rock star Bono of U2, who arrived in sub-Saharan Africa last week on a fact-finding visit to four nations. Bono is the pied piper, championing aid because he's convinced it saves lives and raises living standards. Mr. O'Neill is the skeptic, unpersuaded that aid is effective and concerned that it creates dependency. In fact, he has accused some international donors of driving poor countries "into a ditch." 
 At stake is some $50 billion a year, primarily from 22 donor nations, which supplements loans by the World Bank to promote development. That figure represents less than 0.2 percent of the donors' collective gross national income, down from 0.3 percent 10 years ago. (The United States spends about $10 billion annually, or 0.1 percent of its national income, ranking it the lowest of the 22 nations.) Even though much of the money has gone to corrupt, ineffective governments -- down a "rat hole," according to Senator Jesse Helms of North Carolina -- recent research shows that specific assistance can do wonders when given to governments that demonstrate a commitment to bolstering education and fighting poverty and AIDS. 
Nonetheless, there is plenty of data to back the skeptics. William Easterly, a former economist at the World Bank, said that despite $1 trillion in loans since the 1960's, the per-capita growth rate of the typical developing country over the past 20 years was zero. Even after an infusion of $2 billion in Zambia, for example, living standards are 40 percent lower now than when it gained independence in 1964.
At first glance, the Ugandan schoolyard ditty seems to buttress the skeptics: the rundown school and the appalling poverty of the students suggest that aid has been wasted and done little more than create dependence. But on closer look, the classrooms are packed, because a government program, backed by Western donors, has waived fees in an effort to make primary school universal. Teachers pointed to chairs and desks in their classrooms, also courtesy of foreign aid.
Over the past decade, Uganda has used Western aid to double the number of children in schools, cut the rate of H.I.V. infection among pregnant women by 80 percent, reduce poverty by about 35 percent and bring inflation from almost 200 percent per year to around 2 percent. These are huge gains that experts and government officials attribute largely to outside aid.
Advocates point to specific aid-supported projects behind these gaudy results. Veronica Moss, the head of Mildmay, a center built with British aid money to provide palliative care to AIDS victims, said the program does far more than offer humanitarian assistance: it keeps young adults healthy enough to raise children and stay in the work force longer. 
TOBY MADDISON, who exports roses and daisies grown in vast greenhouses with the help of about 400 workers, overcame some daunting obstacles with help from Western donors, mostly in the form of business and agronomic advice. With their support, Mr. Maddison and 20 or so other growers were able to build businesses near the Entebbe Airport, giving them a crucial air link to Europe in a landlocked country with decrepit roads and railroads -- barriers that have made other exports economically unfeasible.
Uganda isn't the only example of success. The O'Neill-Bono road show, which includes stops in Ghana and Ethiopia, is passing through South Africa, where a government-donor partnership called Nurcha has helped promote home ownership. The donors provide loan guarantees to banks that lend construction money to developers, who build homes that low-income families can buy with government subsidies. The program, which has given housing to more than 100,000 families since 1995, would have been hard to imagine without Western aid, said Herbert J. Sturz of the Open Society Institute, a major partner in the project.
Other aid supporters say relatively small, tightly controlled investments can have a major impact. The economist Jeffrey D. Sachs, the incoming director of the Earth Institute at Columbia University, estimated in a recent report for the World Health Organization that by spending a mere $25 billion to fight malaria, tuberculosis and other preventable diseases, the West could save eight million lives a year in poor countries. Such aid would go to practical health measures like vaccines for measles, antibiotics for tuberculosis, insecticide-treated nets for malaria and condoms for AIDS.
How can the two faces of aid -- waste versus lifeline -- be reconciled? The World Bank's research department provides some clues. For starters, much of what counts as aid in official statistics isn't aid at all. Huge loans that the bank and other donors made to African dictators were political bribes for lining up with the West during the cold war. The amount of money that actually trickles down to the poor has been negligible for decades. No wonder past studies have found little measurable impact of aid on poverty.
More important, aid handed over to inept or corrupt governments does not work, even if the money is initially spent on worthwhile health, education or infrastructure projects. Tanzania was given money to build roads, for example, but since the government failed to maintain them, they disintegrated as quickly as donors supplied fresh money to build new ones. 
But the larger point made by the bank's researchers is that aid can have tangible results when directed to those governments truly committed to fighting poverty, like Uganda, Ghana and Mauritius. 
No one expects the debate to be resolved soon. When Mr. O'Neill and Bono visited a housing project in Soweto, South Africa, on Friday, they were greeted by schoolchildren dancing and singing to the U2 hit "I Still Haven't Found What I'm Looking For." That's a tune both Bono and Mr. O'Neill would surely hum together.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In South Africa, a government partnership with Western donors is building homes for low-income families. (Siphiwe Sibeko/Open Society Institute) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); LIVING STANDARDS (87%); TRENDS (86%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); MALNUTRITION (70%) FOREIGN AID 

ORGANIZATION: OPEN SOCIETY INSTITUTE (59%)

INDUSTRY:  SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS; 

PERSON: BONO (68%) WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UGANDA (94%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); ZAMBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002 



663 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 130 words

HEADLINE: Nonprofits Belong Here 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 The list of national nonprofit organizations that have relocated out of New York goes on. 
 While nonprofit organizations may be the fastest-growing source of jobs in New York City ("Nonprofit Sector of City Economy Is Fastest-Growing Source of Jobs, a Study Reports," news article, May 22), it has happened without much official help. 
A decade ago, there was, briefly, a nonprofit desk in the city's economic development machinery, but not since. It is time for this mayor to bring back a government unit to coordinate the effort of retaining and attracting, incubating and promoting these organizations in what is still the world's nonprofit capital.

FREDERICK S. LANE
New York, May 22, 2002

The writer is a professor, School of Public Affairs, Baruch College, CUNY.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); RELOCATIONS (73%); TRENDS (72%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; ORGANIZATIONS, SOCIETIES AND CLUBS 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); LANE, FREDERICK S (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2002 



664 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: To Build a Country, Build a Schoolhouse 

BYLINE:  By Amartya Sen; Amartya Sen, master of Trinity College, Cambridge, is honorary president of Oxfam. He received the Nobel Prize in economics in 1998.

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, England 

 BODY:
Isaiah Berlin has argued: "Men do not live only by fighting evils. They live by positive goals." The advice was not aimed at the leaders of the war on terror: Berlin was speaking more than 40 years ago. But his idea is worth the attention of current world leaders. And one of the most important positive goals has already been identified by the United Nations: universal primary education by 2015.
 I am aware that when I argue that basic education for all can transform the miserable world in which we live, I sound a little like a Victorian gentlewoman delivering her favorite recipe for progress. As it happens, however, extensive empirical studies have demonstrated the critical role of basic education in economic and social development in Europe and North America as well as in Asia, Africa and Latin America. 
 When Japan set out in the 19th century to catch up with the Western nations, its Fundamental Code of Education, issued in 1872, expressed the public commitment to make sure that there must be "no community with an illiterate family, nor a family with an illiterate person." Kido Takayoshi, one of the leaders of Japanese reform, explained the basic idea: "Our people are no different from the Americans or Europeans of today; it is all a matter of education or lack of education." By 1910 Japan was almost fully literate, at least for the young, and by 1913, though still very much poorer than Britain or America, Japan was publishing more books than Britain and more than twice as many as the United States. The concentration on education was responsible, to a large extent, for the nature and speed of Japan's economic and social progress.
Later on, China, Taiwan, South Korea and other economies in East Asia followed similar routes. Explanations of their rapid economic progress often cite their willingness to make good use of the global market economy, and rightly so. But that process was greatly helped by the emphasis all of these countries placed on basic education. Widespread participation in a global economy would have been hard to accomplish if people could not read or write -- or produce according to specifications or instructions.
The contribution of basic education to development is not, however, confined to economic progress. Education has intrinsic importance; the capability to read and write can deeply influence one's quality of life. Also, an educated population can make better use of democratic opportunities than an illiterate one. Further, an ability to read documents and legal provisions can help subjugated women and other oppressed groups make use of their rights and demand more fairness. And female literacy can enhance women's voices in family affairs and reduce gender inequality in other fields, a benefit to men as well as women, since women's empowerment through literacy tends to reduce child mortality and very significantly decrease fertility rates.
The lives that are most burdened and impoverished by over-frequent bearing and rearing of children are those of young women. A greater voice of young women in family decisions tends, therefore, to cut down birth rates sharply. For example, the fertility rates in the different districts that make up India vary extremely widely, from almost 5 (roughly, five children per couple) in some districts to less than 1.7 in some others. Empirical investigations by Mamta Murthi and Jean Dreze indicate that only two general variables significantly help to explain these differences: female literacy and female economic participation.
In sub-Saharan Africa, 40 percent of primary-age children have no opportunity for schooling. Around the world, there are currently 125 million children who have never, at any time, seen the inside of a classroom. A well coordinated global initiative on basic education is crucial. To be sure, it is also important that the priority of basic education be fully accepted and pursued by the developing countries themselves. But a global approach to schooling can inspire initiatives and bring ongoing efforts together, as well as help with resources.
The need for a new kind of partnership -- a global alliance -- on schooling is hard to exaggerate. The time to live by positive goals has certainly come -- not least for the leaders of G-8 countries who meet at a summit next month in Canada.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Jim Woodring) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (90%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); GLOBALIZATION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (62%); FERTILITY RATES (60%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (60%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: SEN, AMARTYA 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%) GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (92%); TAIWAN (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFRICA (79%); CHINA (79%); ENGLAND (56%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2002 



665 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: How to Keep Cargo Safe, and Rolling 

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
When shipments of auto parts were held at the Canadian border for two days after the Sept. 11 attacks, Detroit shuddered. In the end, the halt in cargo shipments at the nation's borders and ports proved a brief hiccup. But it was a vivid reminder of just how dependent the modern economy had become on the efficient transportation of goods and parts that arrive just in time for assembly. 
 These days, for example, a personal computer is a veritable global smorgasbord of chips, disks and other gear, so the international supply pipeline provides the industry's lifeblood. "The interdependence risk is so much greater in today's global economy," observed Warren R. Starr, a principal at Booz Allen Hamilton. 
 To date, the focus of the Transportation Security Administration, which Congress created last November, has understandably been on passenger-airline security. But cargo is next -- by air, ship and rail -- and both the House and Senate are preparing legislation to improve the monitoring and surveillance of those shipments.
The security risks from cargo, experts say, are real and worrying. In Senate testimony earlier this year, Rob Quartel, a former federal maritime commissioner, said that each of the semitrailer-size steel containers -- which arrive in the United States at the rate of 2,000 an hour -- should "be treated as a potential weapon of mass destruction." They can be used to carry everything from bombs to terrorists.
Yet tougher security measures carry economic risks. Robert Delaney, vice president of Cass Information Systems, a logistics company in Bridgeton, Mo., warned that greatly increasing the number of containers that are opened and inspected by hand, as some have proposed, could "bring commerce to its knees."
The productivity and cost-saving gains of the current system -- fueled by deregulation, technology and just-in-time manufacturing -- have been striking. Since 1980, inventory costs as a percentage of economic activity have declined to 14 percent, from 25 percent.
Instead of increasing physical inspections, some government officials and industry executives advocate a concept they call "pushing the border back." The term means a closer, more refined tracking of cargo before it arrives at a port of entry. The way to do that, they say, is to improve the collection and sorting of the information generated from shippers, owners, freight forwarders and others involved in cargo shipments.
Such an effort would require that a government agency -- the Transportation Security Administration and the Customs Service are the leading candidates -- have a consolidated database. It would also require cooperation by the government and transportation companies. "The government cannot be the only eyes and ears of the security system," said Edward M. Emmett, president of the National Industrial Transportation League, a trade group for freight shippers.
The intent of the information-gathering and cargo-profiling would be to establish the equivalent of fast and slow lanes for cargo, determined by security rating. Such a system would require additional investment, experts say, but not a lot because so much of the cargo transportation industry is already a sophisticated user of technology -- a model that FedEx pioneered. 
"The industry has worked for the last 20 years to put more visibility and more efficiency into the system," said Mr. Quartel, chairman of Freightdesk Technologies, a supplier of freight-management software in Dunn Loring, Va.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cargo ships line up at Port Newark. Some 2,000 containers arrive in the United States every hour. Those involved shipping fear that added security will cut deeply into gains in efficiency and cost. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHIPMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (88%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (88%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (88%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PORT AUTHORITIES (77%); LEAN MFG (76%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (76%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (76%); INSPECTIONS (75%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (73%); TESTIMONY (73%); FREIGHT BROKERS & FORWARDERS (72%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (72%); AVIATION SECURITY (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (63%) SHIPPING AND CRUISES; BOATS AND BOATING; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: BOOZ ALLEN HAMILTON INC (70%)

ORGANIZATION: US TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (56%)

TICKER: BAH (NYSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2002 



666 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1811 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
In New Era, Corporate Security Looks Beyond Guns and Badges

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
HELP WANTED: Chief Security Officer.
 Ominously, vaguely, federal officials are again warning Americans to be on alert for some sort of terrorist attack. Will corporate America be ready? 
 In the months since the Sept. 11 attack on New York destroyed the World Trade Center towers, killed thousands of workers and disrupted dozens of companies, businesses have been forced to review their notions of corporate security. And with those assessments has come realization that the job calls for a new kind of corporate security executive -- one with breadth of experience, analytic skills, business acumen and leadership qualities. The job, in other words, calls for a chief security officer, or C.S.O., as the emerging term of art would have it. 
The security field's leading professional organization is drawing up a detailed description of the skills and responsibilities of the job. The elusive ideal is an executive not only familiar with the physical security of people and property, but also fluent in the digital security of computers and information -- roughly equal parts top cop, business manager and computer geek. 
Executive headhunters are recruiting people who fit the description and, with their talents suddenly much in demand, chief security officers can earn more than $400,000 a year. A new magazine, called CSO, is scheduled to begin publication in September.
And yet, for all the activity, "the truly broad-based candidates are relatively rare," said Lance Wright, a vice president of Boyden Global Executive Search, a recruiter. Despite the talent scouting by headhunters, companies are apparently taking their time in hiring senior security executives. A survey of 390 large companies last month by Christian & Timbers, a search firm, found that while 95 percent said they needed to hire a chief security officer, only 8 percent said they had begun the recruiting.
And a separate study, "The Changing Nature of the Chief Security Officer," from the Giga Information Group, a research firm, found that while large corporations were increasing their security budgets and that some senior security executives' salaries were well into six figures others were making as little as $70,000. 
With its eye on criminality and terrorism, the security field is "a different world and an unfamiliar world to a lot of mainstream businesspeople," said Timothy Williams, a former Cincinnati policeman with an M.B.A. who directs corporate and systems security for Nortel Networks, the big communications equipment maker. But different though it may be, Mr. Williams said, "security is a business process" -- a matter of setting priorities and strategy, establishing processes and measuring their effectiveness.
The C.S.O. title is meant to suggest that security matters are becoming a more important and integral part of corporate life. Roughly 15 years ago, another three-letter corporate title started to surface, C.I.O., or chief information officer. It was initially greeted with skepticism, even derision. 
But C.I.O. was more than a name; it was a recognition that information technology was not just electronic plumbing or a narrow specialty, but something that could affect the mainstream business, strategy and competitiveness. The C.I.O. is now an established and respected executive job at most major corporations.
It is too early to tell whether the C.S.O. will eventually reach comparable stature. But even before Sept. 11, the corporate security field had been steadily evolving in response to the major business and technological developments of the last two decades. Globalization, deregulation, outsourcing, just-in-time inventory practices, the embrace of information technology and the rise of the Internet have all brought greater openness and efficiency, along with new vulnerabilities.
The people managing security at large corporations have also changed with the times, well beyond the "guns and badges" days of mainly overseeing building security guards and investigations of the "who stole the petty cash" variety. In today's open economy, a point of access in security terms is not just a headquarters office or a factory gate, but also a computer network connection that could be a gateway to a company's customer databases or product designs.
The senior security manager has "gone from a corporate cop guy to a real business position," said Grant Crabtree, vice president for corporate security at the Alltel Corporation, a provider of wireless phone service and other telecommunications services, based in Little Rock, Ark.
Senior security officers have typically climbed the corporate ranks through one of two distinct paths, as experts in either physical security or data security. The physical security people usually are former police officers, military officers or federal agents, while the data security people tend to be former computer scientists, engineers and programmers.
Mr. Williams, 50, of Nortel is no newcomer to the field. He has spent 22 years in corporate security, including stints at Procter & Gamble and Boise Cascade, and he is also a co-author of a well-regarded book on fraud. 
A few years ago, he set up a 15-person global security council at Nortel, composed of senior managers in departments including real estate, finance, information technology, manufacturing and procurement. Its purpose, Mr. Williams explained, was to be able to take a comprehensive approach to security matters "across all the core businesses and functions."
Fifteen minutes after the first hijacked jetliner hit the World Trade Center in September, Mr. Williams, working from his office in Nashville, convened the council by conference call, as colleagues checked employee databases and travel itineraries to see if any Nortel employees were on the plane or in the World Trade Center. None were. 
For the next several months, in weekly calls, the group monitored a review and tightening of security programs at the company, which has more than 40,000 employees in Canada, the United States and overseas. Like many companies, Nortel re-examined and fine-tuned all kinds of basic security, like reception desk and ID card procedures, as well as safeguards for limiting to authorized employees and suppliers the right to remote access to the company's computer networks. Mr. Williams, like other security officers interviewed for this article, declined to discuss the changes in detail. 
But one new measure was adding a security section to Nortel's internal Web site, which includes country-risk reports for traveling employees, emergency procedures for building evacuations and recent news articles on physical and data security. For anyone with questions, the site has a link to send e-mail messages to Mr. Williams or other security staff members.
At General Motors, James Christiansen, 43, the chief information security officer, came up through the data security ranks. His computing career began at 19, as a programmer writing code to automate the calculation of electrical rates and customer billing for a utility company in Utah. As his programming skills broadened, he became more interested in security technology and in business, earning both undergraduate and M.B.A. degrees.
General Motors hired Mr. Christiansen in November from Visa International, where he was a senior vice president. His title is a new one at G.M., but the company had begun recruiting him months before Sept. 11, an indication that information security had already become a priority for senior management. A big part of the comeback story at General Motors in recent years has been its use of information technology to forge closer links with suppliers, shorten product design-and-development cycles and manage its worldwide operations.
Yet operating in a global, networked world, where collaboration and information sharing are essential, brings new security risks. The access to computer networks for employees, suppliers or contractors that can make a company more nimble and fleet-footed also makes a company far more vulnerable to theft, sabotage and information-warfare attacks.
"It is the digitization of the enterprise that drives the importance of information security to the top," Mr. Christiansen said recently in his Detroit office. "Our car designs are all mathematical models. You don't make a single car, a single truck, without a computer system -- actually, several of them."
Major manufacturing corporations like General Motors have been adapting their supply pipelines for years. In 1996, G.M. learned a costly lesson in the potential pitfalls of just-in-time inventory practices when an 18-day strike at two factories that supplied brakes shut down 26 assembly plants, reducing quarterly earnings by $900 million. Afterward, the company reorganized its manufacturing and supply channels so that production of critical parts was more diversified and flexible, making it far less susceptible to the loss of a single plant or two.
Mr. Christiansen's job is to make similar, risk-reducing steps for the data networks that connect the company's operations and people. "It is the equivalent of G.M.'s nervous system," he said, "and if it were knocked out, it would be as if suddenly your arms and legs don't work anymore."
Mr. Christiansen must make sure that, beyond any physical attacks, such cyberweapons as an industrial-strength denial-of-service software attack, a self-replicating worm or a computer virus cannot bring the network down. Clever software tools -- so-called intrusion engines, neural-network technology and the like -- can help limit the damage from network sabotage like the Nimbda worm, which cost companies around the world an estimated $500 million last fall.
Yet the more important safeguard, Mr. Christiansen said, is designing computer systems and putting in place employee procedures to reduce risks before the problems occur. "Security isn't technology," he said. "Security is process, though it is enabled by technology." 
The American Society for Industrial Security, a professional organization with 32,000 members, wants to hasten the evolution of the field. In the last few months, the organization has been developing a detailed description of the preferred qualifications and responsibilities for "the new position of chief security officer." The work is not finished, but the draft proposal says the chief security officer -- who would ideally hold a graduate degree in business or law -- should be a senior executive with strong analytic, strategic and communications skills in addition to security expertise.
"For corporate North America, 9/11 was a wake-up, bar none," said Mr. Williams of Nortel, who worked on the society's job-description document. "There will be a lasting effect, and many corporations recognize they need security leadership. But there is also a real need within the security field to broaden itself."

GRAPHIC: Photos: James Christiansen, G.M.'s chief information security officer, under the glass ceiling at the Detroit headquarters. He was recruited well before the September attacks. (Thomas Pidgeon for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Timothy Williams, head of corporate and systems security at Nortel Networks, has 22 years in the field and is the author of a book on fraud. (Dan Loftin for The New York Times)(pg. C4) Chart/Graph: "Digital Vigilance"Spending on security technology like software and smart cards is expected to grow faster than on traditional security services like guards and alarms. Graph tracks information technology security spending worldwide since 1996 with projections into 2004. Graph tracks traditional security spending in the United States since 1996 with projections into 2004. (Sources: IDC; Prof. Robert D. McCrie; Security Letter; Freedonia Group)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (67%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (60%); ESPIONAGE (59%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; CRIME; ESPIONAGE 

COMPANY: NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (62%); CTPARTNERS EXECUTIVE SEARCH INC (53%); GIGA INFORMATION GROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: CTP (NYSE MKT) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); SIC7361 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2002 



667 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Market Place; 
As Jupiter crumbles,its pieces may help build a new order of Web researchers.

BYLINE:  By Saul Hansell 

 BODY:
IN the whirlwind of the Internet economy, amid the frivolity.coms and e-nough-already business models, there were a bunch of companies that filled real needs but that were nonetheless swept away by the storm.
 Some of those are already being rebuilt on sounder financial footing by others -- for example, the grocery business, where Albertson's and Safeway are investing in online ordering services a year after the $1 billion failure of WebVan. 
 And it is now the case with Jupiter Media Metrix, once one of the most prominent Internet research firms, whose components are being bought by rivals who want to continue in the same business. Three weeks ago, the company sold its key patents and international contracts to NetRatings, its main competitor.
And in the next 60 days, the company hopes to find buyers for its Media Metrix business -- once the leader in measuring Web audiences -- as well as its Jupiter research unit, formerly a foremost cybersage. The consensus among media and research executives, however, is that there are few buyers willing to pay much more than token sums for either piece. 
Jupiter Media Metrix, which is based in New York and was formed by the 2000 merger of Media Metrix and Jupiter Communications, is running out of cash as its business atrophies. In the most recent quarter, its revenues were $10.8 million, down 64 percent from a year earlier.
In retrospect, the merger hastened the company's decline by reinforcing its dependence on dot-com clients and Internet-oriented services. The year it spent combining two dissimilar cultures could have been used by each of its component companies to diversify their revenues and batten down the hatches as the storm clouds massed.
And yet, no matter how much the market for online advertising may have shrunk, it is not going away. So advertisers will still need a way to measure the size and composition of Web sites' audiences. Likewise, companies will still seek seers and gurus who try to forecast the future -- or at least make them feel more secure in their uncertainty.
Indeed, Robert Becker, the chief executive of Jupiter Media Metrix, holds out some hope that with the cash it has raised selling pieces of the ratings business the company might be able to continue in the research business.
"We have hit bottom, and we are bouncing along it," Mr. Becker said last week. "This space is not as big as we thought when everyone had to buy Jupiter research because the Internet was a crazy, unbelievable new thing," he said. "But we have a real market, real products and real customers."
Investors are hardly convinced. Jupiter's shares had a rally of sorts last week. The stock was at 13 cents on May 7, before the company announced the NetRatings deals. On Friday, the shares closed at 32 cents. But that still valued the company at only $11.48 million. (If shares do not rise above $1 by June, the company faces delisting by Nasdaq.)
In October 2001, Jupiter, already seeing its cash gauge moving toward empty, agreed to be bought outright by NetRatings for $71 million. But that purchase was blocked by the Federal Trade Commission, which objected because NetRatings would have been left with a monopoly on the Web audience measurement business.
NetRatings is a much smaller company, but it has two advantages. To begin with, 65.5 percent of it is owned by VNU, the Dutch conglomerate that operates the Nielsen Media Research television rating business. Also, NetRatings used the Internet bubble as an opportunity to take in money, rather than spend it. At the height of the boom, it sold more than $300 million in stock to the public, and used the interest on that stash to fund its operating losses.
The ultimate effect of the F.T.C.'s earlier move is that NetRatings will still wind up with the greatest share of the ratings business, but at a far lower cost, while Jupiter's shareholders and employees will be far worse off.
Last month, NetRatings bought Jupiter's AdRelevance division -- which lets companies keep track of what ads their rivals are placing -- for $8.5 million.
In the NetRatingsdeal, Jupiter sold the contracts for its audience measurement business outside of the United States for $2 million. At the same time NetRatings paid $15 million for the patents on Media Metrix's technology to create software that can track Web users -- the online equivalent to the meters used by the Nielsen television ratings. Jupiter had been suing NetRatings for patent infringement, and that potential claim was seen as one of the company's most significant remaining assets.
The deal, in fact, allows Jupiter Media Metrix -- or any company that buys it -- to continue to use the patents in the United States, but only for three years. So it is hard to imagine that the company could remain a serious rival to NetRatings.
While NetRatings does not get the revenue from Jupiter's ratings contracts in the United States, neither does it incur the expense of shutting down its domestic or international networks of tens of thousands of users who have their Web use monitored. In the merger, it had planned to eliminate this service and other duplications at a cost of $45 million.
NetRatings has received a break on another front, too. The same week as its Media Metrix deal, it agreed to buy from VNU for $9.6 million the 80 percent of its overseas unit, e-Ratings, that it does not already own. NetRatings originally was going to buy e-Ratings in October, when it was going to buy Jupiter, so it could combine the international operations; the price had been set at $16 million.
"We will wind up paying $35 million for most of what was going to cost us $130 million," said William Pulver, NetRatings' chief executive.
These deals leave little value in Jupiter's United States ratings business, which it is still trying to sell. ComScore, a Reston, Va., market research company that also measures Web audience behavior, is interested in buying the Media Metrix client contracts, said Gian Fulgoni, comScore's chief executive. But it has no interest in the company's employees or its panel of users. ComScore has a different methodology it says is better and cheaper for measuring the use of Internet sites.
The fate of the Jupiter research business is even less certain. The two most probable buyers -- Forrester Research and Gartner -- have decided not to buy it, as many of Jupiter's top analysts leave for greener pastures.
Gartner is having enough trouble getting its rival to Jupiter, called G2, off the ground to be interested in expanding in that business, people close to Gartner say.
And Forrester already serves many of Jupiter's clients, leaving little reason to buy the firm, according to George F. Colony, Forrester's chief executive. So far Forrester has avoided Jupiter's fate by pursuing other research topics -- like pure technology and supply-chain issues -- that have not been as hard hit as Web forecasting. And while Mr. Colony says he is confident that the research business will rebound, he acknowledges that it has not happened yet.
"Change is the gasoline that drives our business forward," he said. "And in 2001 and 2002, there is not much wind blowing on the change front."

GRAPHIC: Chart/Graph: "Jupiter's Downfall"Jupiter Media Metrix, once one of the most prominent Internet research firms, has encountered financial problems that are forcing it to sell pieces of the company. Initial public offeringMay 6, 1999$17.00 FRIDAY32 CENTS Graph tracks the Jupiter Media Metrix stock price since 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW ECONOMY (90%); MERGERS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); EXECUTIVES (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

ORGANIZATION: JUPITER MEDIA METRIX 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2002 



668 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1524 words

HEADLINE: Fine Wines Are Hot Lots for Auction Houses of New York 

BYLINE:  By HOWARD G. GOLDBERG 

 BODY:
Bang! Jamie Ritchie's gavel cracked the 10:10 a.m. silence in Sotheby's main salesroom on a recent Saturday, and a 12-bottle case of 1982 Chateau Cheval Blanc, a St.-Emilion, fetched $11,750 at auction.
 An hour earlier in Midtown, Morrell & Company's British wine auctioneer, David Molyneux-Berry, disposed of a bottle of 1966 Chateau Latour for $345 (including the 15 percent buyer's premium). A magnum of 1961 Dom Perignon Champagne bottled for Earl Spencer and readied in 1981 to commemorate the marriage of his daughter, Lady Diana Spencer, to the Prince of Wales, went for $5,750. The sale took place, as usual, in the Grand Havana Room, a private cigar club on top of 666 Fifth Avenue. 
 Auctions of rare and fine wines are a big business in New York. The rivalry among houses has steadily heated up in New York since 1999, when New York displaced London as the wine auction capital of the world. 
The business seems to be showing robust growth despite the recession and the aftereffects of the Sept. 11 terrorist attack, fed by wealthy New Yorkers and bargain-hunters who fancy a bottle of fine wine and relish a rush of auction fever. 
In early May, the already crowded field got another competitor when Zachys, a wine emporium in Scarsdale, N.Y., announced its return to the auction arena, five months after its seven-year partnership with Christie's dissolved. At a fancy luncheon at Restaurant Daniel that Zachys gave to celebrate its return, Fritz Hatton, one of its two new auctioneers, reviewed the economics of the wine auction world. "Before the New York wine auction law was passed" in 1993, he said, "sales of wine at auction in the U.S. totaled about $14 million. Eight years later, the total was $69 million, of which $43 million was hammered down in New York." (London's total was $26.2 million.) 
In overtaking London, New York achieved a status that London had taken centuries to develop. The first wine auction by the founder of Christie's, James Christie, was on Dec. 5, 1766, in London. 
Nearly 236 years later, the British colonists' thirsty successors still covet claret -- an English term for red Bordeaux. A boom in vintage Bordeaux, blue-chip Burgundies and California cult wines like Screaming Eagle cabernet sauvignon has been fueled mainly by brick-and-mortar auction houses, immeasurably by online sales and profitably by Americans' ever-rising sophistication about wine as a commodity.
Entering the market as a solo competitor, Zachys is pitting itself against tough rivals: Sotheby's and its partner, Aulden Cellars; Christie's and its new partner, the New York Wine Warehouse, a Long Island City boutique; the independent Acker Merrall & Condit, an Upper West Side merchant; and the independent Morrell, a Rockefeller Plaza store, which also owns a wine-bar-cum-cafe and plans a restaurant downtown.
The world's top-grossing wine auction for 2001, held by Sotheby's/Aulden Cellars in December, brought in $4,285,738. By contrast, in the art world, in one evening two Monets can fetch $43 million, which explains why the New York-based executives in Sotheby's and Christie's wine departments are not boldface names. But in winedom, speculators perceive the departments as lucrative mini-powerhouses.
When New York State's auction law was put into place in 1993, it included a provision intended to protect wine merchants against a potential loss of business: It required any auction house seeking to hold regular wine sales to join with a wine merchant who had owned a license for 10 straight years. Merchants, though, have been free to start auction divisions alone. In 1994, Morrell held New York's first auction, and the market has been growing ever since.
Mr. Hatton said business was good. "In spite of negative stock market trends in 2001, total sales of wine at auction in the U.S. rose 5 percent," he said. "If, at the beginning of 2001, you owned the basket of wines measured by the Wine Spectator Auction Index, and had resisted the temptation to drink or sell the wines, by the end of the year their value would have increased by 16 percent." 
What astonished professionals like Mr. Ritchie, the British-born senior vice president of Sotheby's wine department, was that the aftermath of the terrorist attacks not only did not impair auction sales, it might have galvanized them. "The whole fall season was incredible," he said. "After 9/11, there was a feeling that people sought out wine to drink. People were entertaining more at home." 
The Sotheby's/Aulden sale on Sept. 21 and 22 grossed $2,892,566, with 79 percent of the lots sold. An unidentified American paid $40,250 -- twice the high estimate -- for 12 bottles of 1969 Romanee-Conti from the Domaine de la Romanee-Conti, perhaps the greatest red Burgundy estate of all.
In Sotheby's $4,285,738 auction, in which 95 percent of the lots were sold, a South American, triumphing in gladiatorial telephone bidding with another collector, paid $167,500 for seven bottles of 1978 Montrachet from the Domaine de la Romanee-Conti. "A world record price for white Burgundy at auction," Sotheby's said; it had assessed the consignment at $7,000 to $10,000. 
Local collectors, fearing burglary or worse, shun publicity. A former restaurateur from Long Island, clad in a T-shirt and jeans like many customers at Sotheby's, would discuss his 9,000-bottle, $2 million cellar only on the condition of anonymity.
His passion is the rarest and costliest of the rare: huge bottles called imperials (the equivalent of 8 regular bottles), jeroboams (6 bottles of wine) and salmanazars (12 bottles). "If a producer makes only 100 imperials and I buy 5 at auction, I own 5 percent of his year's production," he said. As the supply dwindles, the resale price escalates, he said. 
One bidder at Sotheby's recent sale was Kevin A. Swersey, a principal in the Manhattan-based Connoisseur's Advisory Group, which advises high-net-worth individuals on managing fine wine. Sitting with a color-coded catalog in his lap, a paddle in one hand and consulting on a cellphone in the other, he bid scrappily for his affluent clients. A case of 1943 La Tache, a red from the Domaine de la Romanee-Conti, opened at $7,000, and he wore down opponents until he won it for $18,212 (including a recently instituted 17.5 percent buyer's premium).
Bargain-hunters who cannot afford an agent's commissions and shun absentee bidding can cherry-pick at Acker Merrall's auctions at the Inter-Continental Central Park South. In the periodically sleepy room, odd lots like a lone bottle of 1982 Chateau Talbot, a Bordeaux red, and unusual finds like six bottles of Domaine du Closel's 1990 Cuvee Speciale, a white from Savennieres in the Loire, might be bought at $70 and $180, respectively.
Acker Merrall, whose small staff is run by John Kapon, the 30-year-old 80-hour-a-week president, grossed $10,617,483 in New York in 2001, plus $2,497,299 more in separate sales in Los Angeles and San Francisco. In addition, the company has run monthly online auctions since last summer and has realized $1,615,712 from them, Mr. Kapon said. 
While Jeff Zacharia, the president of Zachys, is bullish about the prospects for growth and profitability in wine auctions, Michael Aaron, the chairman of Sherry-Lehmann, perhaps America's most famous wine store, has doubts.
After Sherry-Lehmann's five-year partnership with Sotheby's ended in 1999, Mr. Aaron contemplated returning independently, then junked the notion in favor of concentrating on retail sales and service. While in auctions, his sales grew 5 percent a year; since then, the rate has been 10 to 15 percent, he said.
Referring to the rivals in New York as well as Butterfields in San Francisco and a new Chicago company, Edward Roberts International, both of which many Easterners view as marginal, Mr. Aaron said, "With seven houses competing for a limited quantity of wine put up for auctions, and the costs of auctions very high, the profits may be low." His assessment excluded online houses like WineBid.com, in Seattle, which opened in 1996 and, a spokeswoman said, has grown to annual sales of $15 million. 
Since 1994, the auction market has expanded from the standbys -- French classics, mostly -- to include Italian, Australian and California wines at auction. A few Oregon and Washington wines have become staples. Ursula J. Hermacinski, who is widely considered America's leading wine auctioneer and has just joined Zachys, was asked whether, in light of the rising reputation of New York wines, she had found any Long Island or Finger Lakes wines suitable for auction. "No, not yet," she replied. "It's only a matter of time."
Time, and romance, write the script of wine auctions. Buyers who attend Christie's sale this Thursday and Friday in Midtown will be offered a bottle of 1907 Heidsieck & Company Monopole Gout Americain Champagne (estimated at $700 to $1,000). It was recovered in 1998 from the wreck of a Swedish schooner sunk in 1916 by a German submarine. The consignment, 3,000 bottles, was intended for the Russian Imperial Army. The Baltic Sea's depths and cold enabled them to survive both Czar Nicholas II and the Soviet Union. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (91%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); WINE (89%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (76%); BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (76%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); RETAIL SALES (68%); TERRORISM (66%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (66%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (52%); LEGISLATION (50%) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; AUCTIONS; WINES 

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (85%); SOTHEBY'S (85%); ACKER MERRALL & CONDIT CO INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SOTHEBY'S; CHRISTIE'S; MORRELL & CO; ZACHYS (WINE MERCHANT) 

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (85%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (85%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (85%); NAICS445310 BEER, WINE & LIQUOR STORES (58%)

PERSON: PRINCE CHARLES (56%); PRINCESS DIANA (54%) GOLDBERG, HOWARD G 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (58%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2002 



669 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
Uneasy in Victory As Starters Scuffle

BYLINE:  By IRA BERKOW 

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
IT was only the second inning last night at Fenway Park, that crazy quilt of a ballyard, and the Red Sox were intent last night on continuing to make life miserable for a Yankees starter. They had been unkind to Roger Clemens and David Wells on successive days, and they were showing little respect very quickly for another Bomber ace.
 First Brian Daubach, the left fielder, cracked a Mike Mussina pitch high into the night sky and it landed just below the McDonald's sign in the center-field bleachers. 
 Mussina hardly had time to ungrit his teeth from the blow when the next batter, Shea Hillenbrand, slammed another Mussina offering a considerable distance as well, this one sailing over the architecturally challenged left-field wall. 
It was just two weeks ago, against Oakland here, that Daubach and Hillenbrand had back-to-back homers. Maybe no one informed Mussina of this peril.
In the blink of an eye, the score was 2-0, and it was going to be uphill if the Yankees were to win the fourth game of this series and draw within a game of Boston, which sits atop the American League East.
Mussina is not only a veteran pitcher, and a hugely successful one, but he is also an economics graduate of Stanford. He understands that the market can fluctuate, and that patience, as well as a lively fastball and a blistering curve, is a virtue.
So he mopped his brow with the backside of his glove and returned to his labors with the steadfastness of one checking the sides of a ledger.
In the Yankee dugout sat the manager, Joe Torre. The captain of a stable, championship vessel for the last several years, Torre is not one to fret so early in a ballgame, and so early in a season. But he had to be somewhat concerned.
After all, before the season started, he said that this pitching staff was the deepest he had ever had. And just before yesterday's game, he was saying that the Red Sox were as formidable as they had been in years because their pitchers were good -- and healthy.
Not so his staff. At least his starters. Orlando Hernandez was scratched as a starter recently and placed on the disabled list. Andy Pettitte has been on the D.L. with tendinitis in his elbow. He threw in a minor league game in Sarasota and was supposed to throw 60 to 70 pitches and got through only 34.
David Wells got knocked around Saturday afternoon and left the game after three and two-thirds innings, though the bullpen was typically strong and saved the game. He has talked recently about back problems that may jeopardize his career.
Roger Clemens, the day before that, also took his lumps, and was fortunate not to get the loss. He also went three and two-thirds innings. He gave up five earned runs and nine hits and struck out but two, his shortest outing of the season. He will be 40 in August, and though he often appears to be 40 going on 20, age does have a way of sneaking up.
Tonight in Chicago, the Yankees will start the right-hander Mike Thurman, whom no one will confuse with Allie Reynolds or Vic Raschi, or Roger Clemens. He was just called up from Columbus, the Yankees' Class AAA farm club. He has pitched parts of five seasons in the majors, all with Montreal, and has a less than distinguished career earned run average of 5.04.
This is stopgap to be sure, but the fact nonetheless is: there are unanswered questions. And the fear is that the present may be prologue. Ted Lilly has been a pleasant surprise as an effective starter, even though he has a 1-4 record. He still leads the starters with a 2.93 E.R.A. Perhaps he is more motivated than the others because he earns a mere $237,000 a year.
So here was Mussina, going for his seventh victory against two losses this season, and getting out of the second with no further damage. And then the Yankees' bats exploded. Which is not so strange; they are tied for second in the American League in runs scored, and are first in home runs.
In the fourth, Jason Giambi was hit by a pitch, then Jorge Posada belted a homer over the Green Monster off the left-handed starter Darren Oliver to tie the score. In the fifth, Alfonso Soriano hit one over Trot Nixon's head in right and it landed just over the fence, 383 feet from home plate, as Nixon bounced off the wall like a pinball. Giambi homered with two on to extend the lead to 6-2. The inning still wasn't over, and Ron Coomer hit another homer with one on to make it 8-2.
This should have given Mussina a comfortable cushion. But, as it is with Yankees starters in recent times, he demonstrated a sense of the dramatic. And in the Red Sox' half of the fifth, he allowed a single, a double, a single, a single and a run-scoring double play. The Red Sox were challenging, at 8-5.
Soriano homered a second time, in the sixth, and Mussina held the Red Sox for one more inning, before he was replaced to start the seventh by Mike Stanton.
The line on Mussina: six innings, seven hits, five earned runs, a walk, five strikeouts, two homers. Not necessarily a performance to frame. He wound up the winning pitcher -- the Yanks won, 14-5 -- but he had the Yankee bats (including six home runs) and the Yankee bullpen to thank.
While Yankee starting-pitching concerns may not necessarily have mounted last night, they weren't what one might call diminished either.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mike Mussina was not at his best but was bailed out by the offense. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%) BASEBALL; SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN) 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); BOSTON RED SOX (91%) NEW YORK YANKEES; BOSTON RED SOX 

PERSON: BERKOW, IRA; MUSSINA, MIKE 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (51%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); FLORIDA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2002 



670 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: California Scheming 

 BODY:
It has been two years since the meltdown in California's energy markets began. Despite the intense interest generated by Enron's role in the crisis, however, we still do not have a full accounting of what went wrong. We need that information. States that may still wish to pursue the once-bright promise of electricity deregulation will require instruction on how to avoid California's errors.
 Congress and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which are best positioned to do this job, are preoccupied with Enron's market manipulation. The danger is that California will be seen as just one part of the Enron story --the work of one rogue company instead of a complicated mess created by many different players. 
 The run-up of California energy costs in 2000 and 2001 bankrupted one utility, led to rolling blackouts and may yet cost Californians $30 billion in excess electricity charges. In the absence of a full accounting, people have constructed explanations that advance their own agendas. Vice President Dick Cheney first blamed the whole thing on the environmentalists, as well as shortages in natural gas. Gov. Gray Davis blamed the administration for its reluctance to impose controls on wholesale prices and to investigate market manipulation. Economists said things would have worked fine had politicians not meddled with their grand design. What's needed is for someone to cut through the explanations du jour and get at the truth.
The one thing everyone agrees on is that the power crisis was in large measure a crisis of underinvestment -- a booming state economy undone by the failure to build the power plants necessary to sustain that boom. Few plants were built in the 1990's when prices were low. Producers withheld new investments until they better understood the brave new era of deregulation -- which, as it turned out, nobody understood very well, least of all California. 
In deregulating its power system, the state seems to have made every mistake possible. For starters, it forced utilities to buy power at market rates while capping what they could charge their retail customers. This devastated the utilities. It also sent exactly the wrong signal to consumers, who had no incentive to conserve. In addition, bedazzled by the prospect of allowing the free market to set wholesale prices, California refused to let its utilities sign long-term contracts to buy power from the generators. The utilities were thus left at the mercy of an extraordinarily tight spot market that, in turn, was highly vulnerable to manipulation by the clever lads at Enron.
On top of all that came a perfect storm of unforeseen events that hit with calamitous force. These included a drought in the Pacific Northwest that reduced California's hydroelectric power, a rise in the cost of certain pollution credits and a spike in natural gas prices. Mr. Cheney was certainly right about that one. What remains unexplained is why the rise in gas prices was so much higher in California than it was anywhere else.
Suspicions that some natural gas companies deliberately withheld supplies in anticipation of still higher prices have never been fully explored. Nor has the question of why one-third of California's available power mysteriously went off line in the winter of 2000-2001. Was it because older plants shut down for repairs? Or was it simply another instance of power providers gaming the market?
To everyone's great relief, the crisis eventually receded. Federal regulators summoned the courage to impose price controls, thus reducing incentives for manipulation. California's politicians summoned the courage to lift the caps on retail prices, which, together with a vigorous program of energy conservation, reduced demand. Yet the fact remains that the state has been badly and perhaps needlessly battered.
It is Washington's duty to find out why, and to devise the necessary safeguards. Electricity is a public necessity that must be managed wisely, not entrusted blindly to the market. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (88%); WHOLESALE PRICES (88%); POWER PLANTS (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SPOT MARKET (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (76%); INDEPENDENT POWER PRODUCERS (73%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; EDITORIALS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ENERGY AND POWER 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2002 



671 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
Game makers explore new entertainment and information services for home video sets.

BYLINE:  By John Markoff

 BODY:
ARE they video-game consoles or Trojan horses?
 At the Electronic Entertainment Exposition, which ended in Los Angeles last Friday, the talk was all about gaming. Yet inside Sony's PlayStation 2, Microsoft's Xbox and Nintendo's GameCube lurk powerful computers capable -- in principle at least -- of browsing the Web, recording television shows, sending e-mail messages and generally serving as the hub of the much-ballyhooed "digital lifestyle." 
 The possibility of expanding the uses of ever less-expensive game machines became obvious at this year's game convention as all three companies announced plans to hook their systems to the Internet. Once the machines are connected to a high-speed, or broadband, network connection, then all manner of new entertainment and information services might be offered. 
Just as the personal computer has pushed its way into dozens of industries, a chameleonic video-game player could infiltrate the cable and satellite television industries, play CD's and DVD's and even take over some of the functions of an Internet-connected PC.
To varying degrees, though, Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo are being circumspect about their plans to push beyond gamers to reach the entire family in the living room. One fear is that by demonstrating additional nongame features they might alienate their mainstay audience of dedicated gamers. But such hesitancy might well be overcome by the allure of the great untapped revenue seen to be awaiting new forms of interactive media in the home. 
Ken Kutaragi, the chief executive of Sony Computer Entertainment, acknowledged just such a role for the PlayStation. Already, the company is exploring new functions for the machine in Japan, its home market. 
He pointed out that there was room in the PlayStation for a computer hard disk and said the company had developed a version of the machine with a personal video recorder. But he was coy about when such a feature might be offered in the United States. 
Nintendo officials, meanwhile, are the most openly skeptical about expanding the uses of video-game systems. "The people who say multifunction devices are the best solution are technical people," said Satoru Iwata, director and general manger of Nintendo's planning division. "These people aren't familiar with real users." 
For its part, Microsoft seems to be conflicted about how to proceed. During the development of Microsoft's game console, top executives of the Xbox division originally fought off Bill Gates's desire to base the video-game player on a version of the Windows software operating system, according to "Opening the Xbox," a recently published book by Dean Takahashi, a journalist. 
Instead, the Xbox uses a stripped-down operating system that comes with each game disk bought. By using a tiny operating system instead of the bulkier Windows, the Xbox can achieve performance speed and efficiency that is crucial to the gaming market. Nevertheless, the Xbox is a personal computer in video-game clothing, despite the public disavowals by the Xbox team that "we do video games," and nothing else. 
Earlier this year Microsoft announced its eHome initiative, another in a series of efforts to thrust Microsoft into the living room. The eHome project includes personal computer software called Freestyle that turns Windows into a digital video recorder and another program, Mira, that is intended to make it possible to remotely operate a PC using a tabletlike device.
"There is a great deal of pressure to bring eHome to the Xbox inside Microsoft," said Richard Doherty, president of Envisioneering, a Seaford, N.Y., computer industry consulting firm. 
That pressure may grow if Microsoft does not show signs of catching up with Sony. Despite having a one year technical lead over the Japanese consumer electronic giant the Xbox has not yet begun to show a significant performance advantage, and Sony has sold nearly 30 million PlayStation 2's, compared with only about about 3.5 million Xboxes. 
Microsoft's problems may be compounded by a growing perception in the video game industry that Sony is well positioned to continue to dominate the current generation of game devices, at least through 2004 or 2005. 
But if one of the contestants appears to be losing ground, they may try to catch up by changing the ground rules. 
"Sony and Microsoft are locked in a titanic battle in a steel cage," said Steve Koenig, an analyst at NPD, a video game market research firm. 
At the electronics exposition it was apparent that Microsoft was beginning to overcome its shortcomings in game software. The company was showing dozens of new titles in its booth. The company was also aggressively promoting a multibillion-dollar online game system for Xbox users, called Xbox Live, as a way of differentiating its systems. 
Still, it may be hard for Microsoft to gain much market share in video games alone. Last week both Microsoft and Nintendo were forced to cut the price of their video game systems in response to a price cut by Sony.
"The machines have gotten powerful enough that the average player can no longer tell the difference," said Shigeru Miyamoto, director and general manager of Nintendo's entertainment analysis and development division. 
Inside Microsoft itself there is great confidence that the business model it used to such great effect in the PC industry -- continually adding new features and functions -- is also applicable to the video-game business. Earlier this month at a San Francisco dinner for journalists held by Microsoft, Richard F. Rashid, the head of the company's research division, insisted that the company would be able to outpace Sony technologically.
The problem, of course, is that such a view of the business clashes directly with the video game industry's "razors and razor blades" marketing model. In the video-game business, both the software and hardware makers want the hardware design (the razors) to stay frozen for as long as possible. Most of the money is made from sales of software (the razor blades) sales and from hardware licensing fees. Typically, it is not until the final two or three years of the cycle that the hardware makers start to make money from selling the boxes themselves. 
But the PC model of the world is embedded deeply into Microsoft's corporate DNA. For the past decade, in each of the company's forays beyond the PC desktop -- whether to hand-held computers or television set-top boxes -- Microsoft has attempted to push into new markets by using the PC software model. 
That is why that there will continue to be growing pressure on the Xbox division from Microsoft's top executives to make the device much more than a video game console -- like a Web browser, or a digital video recorder or even a home "media server." Or whatever it takes to move from the den to the living room.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ken Kutaragi, chief executive of Sony Computer Entertainment, said the company is looking at new functions for its PlayStation product in its home market of Japan. (Gerard Burkhart for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); TOYS & GAMES (90%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTER GAMES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (78%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); CD & DVD DRIVES (77%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (76%); CABLE INDUSTRY (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); CABLE TELEVISION (71%); BROADBAND (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); WRITERS (62%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TOYS AND GAMES 

COMPANY: SONY CORP (95%); NINTENDO CO LTD (85%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT); SONY COMPUTER ENTERTAINMENT AMERICA; NINTENDO OF AMERICA 

TICKER: SON (LSE) (95%); SNE (NYSE) (95%); 6758 (TSE) (95%); 7974 (TSE) (85%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (95%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (95%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (85%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; SIC3944 GAMES; 

PERSON: BILL GATES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2002 



672 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: At Ground Zero, Uneasy Agreement on Final Rite 

BYLINE:  By DAN BARRY 

 BODY:
The pit where the World Trade Center once stood would be empty soon, with no more human remains to find. The moment would mark such a profound shift in the sad continuum of ground zero, from recovery to rebuilding, that formal commemoration was required. And so weeks of planning began.
 Perhaps a bald eagle could soar from the pit to symbolize the rise of souls and the resolve of a country. Maybe people should hold candles. And instead of the usual parade of speakers, how about letting silence say what already seems beyond words? 
 The suggestions came from construction workers, firefighters, victims' relatives and anyone else with a direct link to the disaster site; they helped inform Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's final decision to hold a ceremony on Thursday, one that seeks dignity through simplicity. No spectacle, no speeches, no eagle. Just an empty stretcher, a truck carrying the last girder, a little music and a lot of silence. 
But the psychic terrain of ground zero is fraught with mines, as Mr. Bloomberg discovered in choosing the date. Some family members have accused the mayor of increasing their pain by choosing to hold the ceremony on a weekday, rather than on a weekend. Some have even suggested that he simply did not want his weekend disrupted.
The city is learning, again, that the months since the collapse of the twin towers on Sept. 11 is but a blink of an eye, and that there is nothing tidy about mass grieving. That is why high-level discussions continue about the logistics of a ceremony just three days away, with every gesture and moment being evaluated for how it might be interpreted.
For example, the invitation list may be long -- it includes former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, the entire City Council, and the governors and Congressional delegations of New York and New Jersey -- but families of victims are to be treated with particular deference. Even the possibility of a huge turnout is being addressed. City officials are citing the funeral of John F. Kennedy as an example of an event at which many people could not get close enough to see the procession, but still felt as though they had participated in the solemn ceremony.
Sociologists say that the difficulty in arranging some kind of final commemoration at ground zero is as understandable as the need for having one. The many victims came from myriad cultural backgrounds and left thousands of survivors who have different beliefs in how to honor the dead -- all in a country with no specific rite worked out for such immense tragedy.
"When a parent dies, we race home and make arrangements," said Harvey Molotch, a sociology professor at New York University. "But this is unprecedented. The fact that there are so many victims doesn't mean that there is only a multiplication of death's tragedy; there is also a multiplication of notions of what is proper to do."
The idea to commemorate the end of recovery efforts -- and to honor those who dug through and hauled away 1.8 million tons of debris -- came from down in the pit. Maybe it was a firefighter, or perhaps a construction worker, but someone at some point said that the removal of the last steel beam should be done in formal fashion.
Beginning in April, the city's Office of Emergency Management began holding meetings to discuss ideas, including many that were forwarded by e-mail. "It was a wonderful dialogue with a lot of give and take," said Jennie Farrell, the sister of a victim, James M. Cartier, and a leader of a support group called Give Your Voice.
People agreed on several central themes. "We knew that there needed to be a symbolic piece of steel brought out," said Jonathan Greenspun, the director of the city's Community Assistance Unit. "We knew that the piece of steel should be driven out, and behind the truck there should be members of all the relevant parties: families, rescue workers, recovery workers, emergency-services workers."
It also had to be noted that so far only about 1,000 of the more than 2,800 victims have been identified, he said. "In order to symbolize that fact, there would be a stretcher that would be empty."
Another important criterion also emerged: no speeches. "We came in with no speeches, and we leave with no speeches," said the Rev. Brian Jordan, a Roman Catholic priest who has served as a chaplain at the disaster site. "The economy of expression is the best resource we have to do a respectful and profound ceremony."
Ms. Farrell said that several family members emphasized that the ceremony should be on a weekend to better accommodate the thousands of people with ties to the victims. The idea, she said, was to "make it as easy as possible for them."
But when Mr. Bloomberg revealed plans for the ceremony two weeks ago, he surprised Ms. Farrell and a few others by announcing that it would be held on May 30, a Thursday that also happens to be the traditional Memorial Day. He explained that a weekend ceremony would disrupt religious services: Muslims worship on Fridays, Jews on Saturdays and Christians on Sundays.
Some people were particularly offended by how the mayor defended his decision last week. "No matter what day you pick, some people will find it inconvenient, but we are going to have it on May 30," he had said. "Watch it on television if you can't be there, and in your mind, just try to remember those that we lost."
To which Ms. Farrell responded: "Go watch it on television? This isn't a ballgame. This isn't the World Series."
"People make it sound as though all we do is complain and whine and cry," she added. "But you know what? It's about what happened to us."
City officials emphasized that Mr. Bloomberg was trying to be both sensitive and practical about the ceremony. They also say that other family members, particularly those who are not as vocal or as organized as Ms. Farrell, do not share in the anger over a weekday commemoration.
Nikki Stern, whose husband, James E. Potorti, was killed in the disaster, said that given what family members struggle with every day, the weekday-weekend quarrel is not a battle worth fighting. "I don't think anyone wanted to hurt anyone or offend anyone," she said. "It's tricky to try and accommodate everyone."
Jeffrey K. Olick, a sociology professor at Columbia University, agreed. "The commemorations have to be open enough to include a wide variety of purposes and interests," he said. "But they can't reach the point of being so vague that they do no good for anyone."
Mr. Greenspun said the city tried its best to accommodate everyone. "All I can tell you is that a tremendous amount of work and planning has gone into this in order to make sure that we do this right," he said.
As of now, the plan calls for bells to toll at 10:29 on Thursday morning to mark the moment when the second tower collapsed. An empty stretcher, covered with a flag, will be placed in a waiting ambulance. The ambulance and a truck carrying a single girder will slowly drive up the ramp that leads out of the pit, followed by the representatives of all the groups and agencies and trades that played a role in the sorrowful drama of ground zero. Trumpeters will sound taps, and bagpipers will play "God Bless America."
The procession will march north along West Street before ending at Canal Street. It will pass the local dignitaries, the government employees, other spectators -- and, of course, the family members, who will have gained access to a prominent viewing area by indicating the case number that the city assigned to the matter of their lost loved one.
Some family members have talked of boycotting the event. But Ms. Farrell said that even though she is upset, she feels it is only right that she attend.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A welder secured a bracket on the World Trade Center's last girder, which will be removed during Thursday's commemorative service. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (88%); CITIES (88%); FAMILY (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); HIJACKING (73%); TERRORISM (70%); SOCIOLOGY (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MISSING PERSONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (86%); RUDY GIULIANI (53%) BARRY, DAN; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2002 



673 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 27, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: ON VISIT TO PARIS, BUSH TRIES TO EASE CONCERN IN EUROPE 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: PARIS, May 26 

 BODY:
Arriving here in the capital of European skepticism about how the United States exercises its power, President Bush sought today to play down his many differences with European leaders over trade, the environment and Iraq, while seeking France's help in defusing the conflict between India and Pakistan.
 On a day of heavy diplomacy, Mr. Bush also said he would soon be sending an envoy to the Middle East and urged Iran to open itself to nuclear inspections. 
 The president, looking tired and confessing that he was jet-lagged after a whirlwind tour through Berlin, Moscow and St. Petersburg, insisted to reporters here that European protests against his policies left him unconcerned, saying, "There's a heck of a lot more that unites us than divides us." 
Still, France's president, Jacques Chirac, while warmly welcoming Mr. Bush to Elysee Palace, was quick to enumerate his government's many differences with the United States. He told reporters that he had told Mr. Bush that there was "a very real risk in going on consuming more of our planet than the earth can really produce," a not-so-subtle swipe at Mr. Bush's energy policies.
For his part, Mr. Bush seemed to enjoy playing the part of the Texas ranch-owner coming to the center of European style and cuisine. "He's always saying that the food here is fantastic," Mr. Bush said, nodding toward Mr. Chirac with a half-smile. "And I'm going to give him a chance to show me tonight."
For all the banter, concerns elsewhere held Mr. Bush's attention today. He again sought to calm the India-Pakistan conflict, and chastised Gen. Pervez Musharraf for the second time in two days, saying the Pakistani president had to "show results in terms of stopping people from crossing the Line of Control, stopping terrorism," a reference to Islamic insurgents crossing into Indian-held Kashmir.
Both Mr. Bush and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell warned India and Pakistan publicly that there were American forces in the region that could be harmed in either a conventional or nuclear exchange. Administration officials said they were not considering having those forces intervene. Rather, they were making the point that both sides had to exercise extraordinary care.
"I'm just worried that they have a history of miscalculating," a senior administration official said in an interview. "In dealing with the old Soviet Union, we all knew the rules. We worry that the Indians and the Pakistanis don't have any rules."
Turning to another leader who has often ignored administration calls to control militants who commit terrorism -- Yasir Arafat -- Mr. Bush said he would send an envoy to the Middle East, as early as this week. Other administration officials said it would be George J. Tenet, the director of central intelligence, who had delayed his trip to the region. Mr. Tenet is hoping to work out security arrangements that would pave the way to a cease-fire and political talks, but the administration has been locked in a debate over whether and how to deal with the Palestinian leader.
This morning, seeming to turn up the heat on Mr. Arafat, Mr. Bush told reporters that he believed that "you're beginning to see talk of reform" in the Palestinian Authority, and that Arabs were beginning "to question out loud" why the authority had not delivered peace and prosperity to its people. It was unclear whether Mr. Bush was seeking to undermine Mr. Arafat's power by noting that the Palestinian leader's own people were calling for change, or whether he was trying to give him yet another chance to perform. He said Mr. Arafat has "had a chance to fight terror, and he hasn't."
After days of wrangling with Russia on its nuclear exports to Iran, Mr. Bush also said for the first time that President Vladimir V. Putin had offered a way of resolving those differences with Washington. Mr. Putin, he said, raised the possibility of putting pressure on Iran to allow international inspectors into the country to determine whether it was diverting Russian commercial nuclear technology to military projects.
The administration fears that Iran's military is diverting the technology in an effort to develop a nuclear bomb. On Friday, Mr. Putin said there was no evidence to support that. But Mr. Bush's concern became more urgent last week when American officials said Iran had carried out a successful test of the Shahab-3 missile, which has a range of roughly 800 miles. That means that it could reach Israel, or American troops stationed in Saudi Arabia, Afghanistan, Pakistan and parts of Turkey.
But while juggling those concerns, Mr. Bush was arriving for the first time as president on French soil -- only to discover a drizzly Paris whose side streets had been barricaded in case of demonstrations on the scale of those that greeted him in Berlin last week. The precaution was unnecessary: save for a few hecklers, there have been no organized demonstrations in Paris.
Nonetheless, the barricades underscored one of the oddities of the trip: Mr. Bush received his warmest reception in Russia, the old cold war enemy now happy at the prospect of aid and trade with the United States, and the coldest in the capitals of his European allies. 
Asked today about his poor image in Europe, Mr. Bush said, "Look, the only thing I know to do is speak my mind, to talk about my values, to talk about our mutual love for freedom and the willingness to defend freedom."
"I don't view hostility here," he added. "I view the fact that we've got a lot of friends here."
One of them, he said, was Mr. Chirac, who was clearly reveling in his role as host at the palace after his recent re-election. But Mr. Chirac by turns celebrated the French-American friendship and its alliance against terrorism, while reminding Mr. Bush of the reasons that, in Paris's view, his administration was putting strains on it. He mentioned the farm bill that Mr. Bush signed two weeks ago, which gives billions of dollars in new subsidies to American farmers at a time when the United States is telling European nations to cut subsidies to their farmers.
But then Mr. Chirac said, "These diverging views only account for 5 percent of the trade between the E.U. and the U.S.," adding, "The United States and Europe are the two major economic powers in the world." (That may come as news to Japan, the world's second-largest economy.)
Mr. Bush committed a faux pas of his own: He announced today that his planned visit Monday to Normandy to mark Memorial Day on the site of the D-Day invasion almost 58 years ago would be historic. "For the first time ever, if I'm not mistaken, the president of the United States will not be in the United States on Memorial Day." 
It turns out he was mistaken: the last president to commemorate Memorial Day outside the United States was his own father, in Italy 13 ago.
"It was my fault," Condoleezza Rice, the president's national security adviser, said by telephone. She had gotten "a little ahead of my fact-checkers," she said, and fed the president incorrect information.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 29, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Monday about President Bush's visit to France was incorrect in suggesting that President Jacques Chirac was wrong to have said, "The United States and Europe are the two major economic powers in the world." He was correct: although Japan indeed has the second-largest national economy, after that of the United States, it is smaller than that of the European Union, which comprises 15 countries.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Presidents Bush and Jacques Chirac yesterday in the French leader's office in Elysee Palace in Paris, where Mr. Bush arrived from Moscow. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); TERRORISM (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); INSPECTIONS (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (67%); COUNTERTERRORISM (62%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (62%); RELIGION (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ENVIRONMENT; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; FRANCE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INDIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-PAKISTAN 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JACQUES CHIRAC (89%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%) SANGER, DAVID E; CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) KASHMIR (92%) FRANCE (96%); PAKISTAN (95%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ASIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%) EUROPE; IRAQ; INDIA; PAKISTAN; KASHMIR AND JAMMU; FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2002 



674 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Health & Fitness; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: New Drug for Malaria Pits U.S. Against Africa 

BYLINE:  By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr. 

DATELINE: GENEVA 

 BODY:
With resistance to old malaria drugs spreading, African officials want to start using a relatively new Chinese remedy so powerful that some experts consider it a miracle drug. Because more than 2,000 African children die of malaria each day, doctors there are clamoring for the drug, and the World Health Organization recommends it.
 But the United States generally opposes using it in Africa yet. 
 An adviser to the Agency for International Development in Washington, Dennis Carroll, said the medicine, artemisinin, probably represented "the best long-term option." But, he added, the drug is expensive and hard for poorly educated people to take correctly. It needs, he said, more testing in infants and is "not ready for prime time." 
Other experts say delays will cost too many lives because the drugs now in use are rapidly losing their effectiveness.
Artemisinin was first refined 30 years ago in China from the qinghaosu plant, used in fever remedies for 2,000 years. The raw material comes from China and Vietnam, although the source plant, Artemisia annua, known as sweet wormwood or Chinese wormwood, grows wild even in the United States.
In Vietnam, according to W.H.O., the death toll from an epidemic was reduced 97 percent from 1992 to 1997 using bed nets, indoor DDT spraying and artemisinin. In a study under way in rural South Africa, malaria deaths dropped 87 percent in a year.
"It really is a marvelous drug," said Dr. David Nabarro, executive director in the director general's office at W.H.O. "It's not only a treatment, but the treated person then contains a sterile form of the malaria. So it reduces the intensity of the epidemic."
Many African countries want to switch to it now, arguing that resistance to chloroquine and sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine, the usual front-line drugs, is rapidly spreading. 
Most of those countries cannot buy drugs without help from donors or World Bank loans. Some public health officers complain that A.I.D. quietly pressures them not to even request artemisinin.
Mr. Carroll denied the pressure but said the agency believed that artemisinin had not been tested enough on infants and that sulfadoxine/pyrimethamine, or S/P, had some years of usefulness left. For that reason, the agency officially suggests saving artemisinin for cases not helped by first-line drugs.
That infuriates malaria specialists like Dr. Fred Binka, a professor of epidemiology at the University of Ghana. "I couldn't believe my ears," Dr. Binka said after American officials defended that view at a conference here in February. "In poor countries like ours, children have only one chance. They struggle just to visit a health service, and if they get the wrong drug the first time, they are then found dead."
Dr. Bernard Pecoul, director of the Doctors Without Borders campaign for cheaper medicines, called the American position "frankly, very difficult to understand."
Senior W.H.O. officials are careful to say just that the United States is "sounding useful notes of caution," in the words of Dr. David J. Alnwick, manager of the Roll Back Malaria project in the agency.
"It's wrong to polarize it and say the U.S. is anti-artemisinin," he said.
But Dr. Kamini Mendis, another official at Roll Back Malaria, said applying pressure not to seek the best treatment would be disturbing.
"It's not logical," Dr. Mendis said. "Resistance is a huge problem, and there are not many drugs in the pipeline because it's not a rich man's disease."
A study in 1996, underwritten by the Wellcome Trust, a British foundation that researches medical issues, found that $42 per malaria death was spent on research, compared with $840 per death on asthma research and $3,360 per death on AIDS research. 
Malaria is in 90 countries, with more than 300 million cases a year, more than a million of them fatal.
Rural African children suffer up to six bouts a year. The disease is often poorly treated, meaning that the children die slowly of anemia. Survivors may be mentally stunted.
The disease also drains national economies. W.H.O. studies show that families affected by malaria clear 40 percent of the land for planting that healthy people do. The disease also scares off tourists and foreign investors. Most African countries have used chloroquine as their first-line drug since 1970. But resistance is up to 90 percent in some areas.
Sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine, under brand names like Fansidar, succeeded it. But pockets of resistance have been found from South Africa to Burundi, sometimes running as high as 60 percent of the cases.
"If you had such resistance levels to a drug in the West," Dr. Binka of of Ghana said, "you know there would be an outcry."
Experts now agree that treatment has to be mixtures of drugs, or cocktails, like those used for AIDS, to fight resistant strains.
Chloroquine and S/P are extremely cheap, as little as 20 cents for an adult treatment. Chloroquine usually has to be taken three times over three days. S/P is a one-time dose.
Artemisinin compounds, by contrast, can be 100 times as expensive. Novartis, the Swiss multinational, sells its cocktail of an artemisinin drug and lumefantrine as Riamet for $20 in rich countries and as Coartem to W.H.O. for poor countries for $2. Using Chinese or Vietnamese suppliers, Doctors Without Borders says it believes that it can obtain a similar combination for $1.30 a dose.
But price is not the sole factor. Africans obtain virtually all AIDS and tuberculosis medicines by prescription. But 80 percent buy malaria pills where they buy detergent, matches or aspirin.
Those small stores and peddlers are de facto pharmacists and, Dr. Binka said, have to be retrained somehow to give sound advice.
Artemisinin drugs have drawbacks. Up to 12 pills have to be taken over three days, preferably with milk. They rapidly stop the aches and fever, so patients who cannot afford 12 pills or milk may stop. That lets the most resistant parasites survive, to be transferred by mosquito to the next victim. Nonetheless, many doctors in Africa are worried enough to want the drugs now.
The public health director in Zambia, Dr. Rosemary Sunkutu, said malaria was the No. 1 killer there. Chloroquine is nearly useless, Dr. Sunkutu said, and S/P resistance is reported at 16 percent. With an additional $8 million, she said, Zambia could switch to Coartem "and substantially reduce the number of children who would die." The American Embassy's aid representative in Lusaka asked her to keep using the cheaper drugs, she said.
Mr. Carroll of A.I.D. and Dr. Richard W. Steketee, chief of the malaria epidemiology branch of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, defended the reluctance to endorse artemisinin for Africa. 
"In the vast majority of Africa, S/P remains effective," Mr. Carroll said, although he acknowledged that it would not be for long.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Artemisia annua plant, known as sweet wormwood or Chinese wormwood, provides the raw material for artemisinin, a malaria drug. More than 2,000 African children die from malaria every day. (Gregory G. Dimijian/Photo Researchers) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MALARIA (93%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); EPIDEMICS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); DRUG RESISTANCE (78%); ANTI-INFECTIVES (78%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) MALARIA; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); ARTEMISININ (DRUG) 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (84%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (83%) WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION; AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 

PERSON: MCNEIL, DONALD G JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); AFRICA (95%); VIET NAM (92%); CHINA (92%); GHANA (79%) AFRICA

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2002 



675 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: Sky Is Falling on Prairie Chicken, Sacrifice of a Rite of Spring 

BYLINE:  By E. VERNON LAUX 

DATELINE: CASSODAY, Kan. 

 BODY:
A roadside sign proclaims this town the Prairie Chicken Capital of the World. But the prairie chicken is experiencing a catastrophic decline here in the Flint Hills, the core of its range.
 On a recent spring day, it was easy to see why. Vast stretches of tallgrass prairie were engulfed in fire. Heat and smoke had turned the vast grassland into a sterile, stinking black inferno, a prairie Armageddon. 
 This burning has become an annual event on much privately owned grassland. The lush grass that comes up after the fire dies is ideal for cattle, which gain weight faster than than they do when grazing on older grasses. And cattle ranching is big business here. 
But the effects are devastating for the region's plants and animals, many researchers who study the tallgrass prairie say. The greater prairie chicken (Tympanuchus cupido), the species found here, is a case in point.
The burning and intensive grazing remove the vegetative cover and wipe out insects, reptiles and small mammals -- the suite of animals associated with this ecosystem. And the fires often force female prairie chickens off egg-filled nests.
As a result, ecologists, conservationists, ranchers and others have joined forces here to devise ways to preserve the ecosystem while allowing cattle to thrive.
Prairie chickens are a species of grouse that is much admired by birders, known to travel great distances to see the birds' extraordinary mating displays here.
Up to 40 male birds gather at dawn here, some 50 miles northeast of Wichita, on a display ground or lek, perhaps half the size of a football field, to perform their outrageous mating antics. They hoot, jump and shake their wings, all to impress the females watching the show.
The birds inflate normally invisible yellow-orange air sacs on the sides of their necks and their long ornamental feathers, called pinnae, stand up on their heads, drastically changing their normally drab look.
But the greater prairie chicken has suffered serious declines over its range, from North Dakota and Minnesota to Missouri and Oklahoma. Attwater's prairie chicken (Tympanuchus cupido attwateri), a subspecies that once occupied what is now the intensively farmed land of southern Texas, has been reduced to 22 males in 2001 from a million or more in the early 1900's.
A close relative, the easternmost form of the greater prairie chicken, a subspecies known as the heath hen (Tympanuchus cupido cupido) is extinct. The last one, a male, was seen in 1932 on Martha's Vineyard.
An increasing number of experts fear that if land use patterns continue, the remaining prairie chickens are in danger of going the way of the heath hen. Only in Nebraska and South Dakota, where burning is less intense, are populations steady or slightly increasing.
"Fire is a very necessary component in the Flint Hills as it is in other grasslands," said Brian Obermeyer, director of the Flints Hills Initiative, a project of the Kansas chapter of the Nature Conservancy.
Fires set by lightning, or more recently by people, help grasslands stay free of woody vegetation and restore vitality and species diversity. But, he said, "The key is having enough residual vegetation to meet the needs of native wildlife."
Naturally occurring fire was an important natural part of the prairie ecosystem, said Mark B. Robbins, an ornithologist at the University of Kansas Natural History Museum. "Burning on this scale, every year, at the same time, is not."
The Flint Hills, which run from northern Oklahoma through eastern Kansas almost to Nebraska, contain the largest remaining expanse of tallgrass prairie in America. By some estimates, less than 2 percent of the tallgrass prairie remains. What is left is highly fragmented.
Pressure on the Flint Hills landscape intensified in the 1980's when landowners began managing privately held land here under a fire and grazing regimen called intensive early stocking, which allows ranchers to double the size of their herds.
This involves annually burning large parts of the prairie in the spring. Once the new grass emerges, 10 days or so after a burn, cattle are trucked in to feed on the new growth for three or four months. Ranchers can feed twice as many head of cattle as they can on land that is not burned, researchers at the Kansas State Agricultural Experiment Station say. But the grazing leaves the Flint Hills devoid of grass more than an inch or so high until at least mid-July.
Since 1982, the number of birds killed in the state hunting season has fallen drastically, reaching 19,300 in 2000 from about 109,000 in 1982, according to data from the Kansas Department of Wildlife and Parks. 
Mr. Robbins and Dr. A. Townsend Peterson, ornithologists at the Natural History Museum and Miguel A. Ortega-Huerta from the department of geography and the Kansas Applied Remote Sensing Program, all at the University of Kansas, attribute the precipitous declines in Kansas and similar drops in Oklahoma to the annual spring burning and the double-stocking regimen.
In Nebraska and South Dakota, where rotational burning is the rule and double stocking is not done, the populations are holding their own.
But people like Mr. Obermeyer do not advocate eliminating cattle grazing here to save birds. "The best and most realistic way to save the Flint Hills and species like the prairie chicken is to keep the rancher on the land," said Mr. Obermeyer. "They keep the woody vegetation from encroaching, care deeply about their responsibilities as stewards of the land and understand the problems." 
Alan Pollom, director of the Kansas chapter of the Nature Conservancy, said a way must be found to help ranchers and conservationists work together. "The Flint Hills will never be a national park," he said. "They are privately owned and will be dedicated to some type of economic activity. Conservationists have to be serious about working with the ranching community to come up with creative ideas that are both economically and biologically sustainable."
Dr. Samuel D. Fuhlendorf, a professor of rangeland ecology at Oklahoma State, and his colleagues are working on a rotational approach, patch burning, in which the prairies will be burned every three or four years, a span they say is sufficient to maintain grasslands. Animals would be free to graze on burned or undisturbed parts of the landscape.
Dr. Fuhlendorf said: "We have three years of data from three sites along an east-west gradient across the Great Plains. We compare the patch burning approach to typical management of each area. So far, we have not been able to find any differences in livestock production but we have documented increased habitat diversity with patch burning. Greater diversity in habitat with the patch burning approach leads to an increased diversity in insects, small mammals and grassland birds, so it proceeds through the food chain."
Ranchers, conservationists and agency representatives are cooperating to solve these problems through a new group, the Tallgrass Legacy Alliance, or T.L.A. Its goal is figuring out the best way to preserve the tallgrass prairie and its biodiversity and making it feasible for ranchers to make a living.
"Having a group like T.L.A. has been a great help to me," Mr. Obermeyer said, "because it helps bring together all the folks really serious about saving the tallgrass prairie. I see this group as a national model."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Annual prairie fires, like these set in the Flint Hills of Kansas, are a boon for cattle breeding but a catastrophe for the prairie chicken. (Photographs by Bob Gress) Map of Kansas highlights Flint Hills.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POULTRY (90%); MAMMALS (90%); ANIMALS (90%); BIRDS (90%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (77%); FIRES (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (74%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (69%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (67%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (67%); BIRDING (65%); LAND USE PLANNING (62%) BIRDS; GROUSE (BIRD); FOREST AND BRUSH FIRES; PRAIRIE CHICKENS (BIRDS) 

PERSON: LAUX, E VERNON 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (78%); WICHITA, KS, USA (73%) KANSAS, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); MINNESOTA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (91%) KANSAS

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2002 



676 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Juneau Journal; 
Push to Move Alaska's Capital Has Central Theme

BYLINE:  By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr. 

DATELINE: JUNEAU, Alaska, May 26 

 BODY:
Plenty of state capitals are not centrally or conveniently located. But Juneau takes the prize.
 It is in Alaska's panhandle, way down in the southeast corner of the state, on a sliver of land that can be reached only by boat or plane, providing the weather cooperates. If you travel by road, you simply can't get here from there -- too many mountains, glaciers and rain forests. 
 Many Alaskans say the capital should be more centrally located. But every time they have tried to make a change -- and they have tried a half-dozen times over the past 40 years -- Juneau has headed them off, arguing that moving a governor, the Legislature and state agencies would be too expensive and would leave Juneau a ghost town.
Now, still another effort is under way. But this one is different.
Instead of proposing an outright shift of the whole capital to a more central site, the relocation forces are proposing that only the Legislature move, preferably to the Matanuska-Susitna Valley, which lies about 40 miles north of Anchorage -- and 900 miles northwest of Juneau -- and is one of the fastest growing regions in the state. Enough signatures have been gathered to put the proposal on the fall ballot.
"Three-fourths of the state's people live within a tankful of gas of the valley," said Uwe Kalenka, a mini-mall manager from Anchorage and one of the leaders of Alaskans for Efficient Government, the citizens' group that collected the signatures. "They could travel by road to get their legislative business done in as little as a day -- no boats, no planes, no weather delays, no expensive three-day overnight stays, no hassle. And it won't cost all that much to make the switch because there's not all that much to be done."
The Juneau defense effort is being led this time, as it has been before, by the Alaska Committee, another citizens' group. Its president, Win Gruening, a member of a family long involved in Alaska politics, contends that the relocation forces are trying to "slip in through the back door" by focusing on the Legislature.
"If the Legislature were to be moved, it would be only a matter of time before the rest of the government would go," Mr. Gruening said. "And that would be a disaster for Juneau. Government accounts for close to 40 percent of the city's economy. You eliminate that and you don't solve a problem. You create one, because one of the three largest population centers in the state would be devastated, and at the same time the state would have wasted millions it doesn't have on a pure folly." 
Juneau became the capital in 1900, when Alaska was a territory and the great gold rush was on. This is where the most people were then.
But now, the heaviest concentration of Alaskans is in the central part of the state, around Anchorage, in particular. Anchorage has a population of more than 260,000, compared with just over 30,000 for Juneau. 
State Senator Randy Phillips of Eagle River, a community near Anchorage, argues that the only real issue is "access, access, access" for the people of Alaska, not moving costs, or Juneau's economy or accommodating legislators who do not like to travel.
"You can't put a price on access," he said. "This isn't about what Juneau wants. It's about what the people of Alaska want." 
Beth Kerttula, a state representative from Juneau, concedes that traveling to the city is difficult. But she contends that if the capital is moved -- given Alaska's huge size, harsh climate and wildly beautiful but exceptionally rugged terrain -- the same factors will remain a problem for many residents and legislators seeking to reach it.
"It you live way out in some place like Dutch Harbor in the Aleutians -- halfway to Japan and with some of the worst weather on earth -- you've got access problems no matter where you're headed," she said. "Alaska is full of those places. But in recent years we've done a great deal to make things easier, some of it really cutting edge for any legislature. Most of what we do is now on cable television or available on our Web site, both in print and audio. Our airport now has state-of-the-art bad-weather equipment. And every citizen can get one reduced fare each year to fly to Juneau for legislative business."
The Alaskans for Efficient Government will not say how much money it may devote to its campaign. But the Alaska Committee says it plans to spend "whatever it takes" to defend Juneau's status, with much of the money coming from the city.
"We spent over a million bucks to beat the last effort in 1994 and won 55 to 45" percent, said Jim Powell, a committee member and a Juneau city councilman who is married to Ms. Kerttula, the state legislator. "They keep coming back at us, and we're in a tough fight, as usual. But we've got some allies elsewhere. There are plenty of people in this state who don't want to see more power concentrated in the Anchorage area."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Randy Phillips, an Alaska state senator, shows how empty the halls at the State Capitol in Juneau can be. (Associated Press) Map of Alaska highlighting the area of detail and Juneau: Some Alaskans want a capital easier to get to than Juneau is.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (78%); MOUNTAINS (76%); RELOCATIONS (74%); POLITICS (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (69%); REFERENDUMS (66%) LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: JUNEAU, AK, USA (98%); ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (92%) ALASKA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) ALASKA; JUNEAU (ALASKA); MATANUSKA-SUSITNA VALLEY (ALASKA)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2002 



677 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: ON THE ROAD; 
Corporate Conferences With Saddles and Spurs

BYLINE:  By Joe Sharkey 

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz. 

 BODY:
DUDE ranches tend to attract very congenial people as a rule, which is why the strange foreigner whom we quickly began calling Black Bart stood out here at the Tanque Verde Guest Ranch. 
 A grouchy man who said he was Swiss but sure sounded English Midlands to me, Black Bart insisted on always riding at the head of the pack, and he'd glower and rein his horse to cut off anybody trying to edge in. But beyond his unfriendliness, he was most remarkable for his attire. 
 Every morning, as the 7 o'clock lope ride saddled up, Black Bart, who appeared to be well into his 60's, would arrive at the corral wearing a different cowboy outfit. Now when I say cowboy outfit, I am not talking denim shirt, faded Wranglers, dusty boots and sweat-stained Cattleman hat. I am talking the full nine yards: satin and spangles and spurs, a black hat, chaps and a fringed black silk shirt with a silvery star pinned on the chest. I am talking a guy dressed for the chorus of a road-show production of the Aaron Copland ballet "Rodeo." 
My wife and I like riding in the Sonora desert, and are regular visitors to the Tanque Verde ranch, which sprawls over the foothills of the Rincon Mountains east of town. Black Bart, we learned, is also a regular, though our visits had never before overlapped. The only reason I am telling you about Black Bart is that on this trip, he, as we did, noticed something slightly different at the ranch. He, for one, did not much like the looks of it.
"Bloody corporate people," Black Bart, lip curled, snarled to no one in particular as a group of about eight of us set off for a fast ride down a desert wash one sunny morning.
This was clearly a reference to a jolly group of guests who remained standing back at the corral, where they waited to be loaded onto horses for a 90-minute ride at a leisurely walking pace into the saguaro-studded hills. Most of them had on the big straw cowboy hats that the ranch hands out to guests. They were joshing each other and having a ball at the prospect of starting their work day winding around desert cactuses on the back of a horse.
As I said, dude ranches attract sociable people, so the regular ranch vacationers, our crotchety electric cowboy manque aside, were actually happy to share the place with the amiable corporate folks, some with spouses and children in tow, who were there to attend business or professional meetings -- with riding, tennis, swimming and desert nature hiking thrown in.
The corporate exhibition, trade show and meetings businesses all have been clobbered in the last year by a soured economy that took hold a year ago and by the terrorist attacks in September. The highest-cost end of those businesses, the trade shows and exhibitions that are mostly held in convention centers in 15 or 20 major cities, is still reeling. 
But as the hotel industry itself began coming back with unexpected strength this spring, so, it appears, has a part of the corporate meetings business that relies on smaller company gatherings of 200 attendees or fewer in intimate hotel or resort settings.
But a dude ranch?
"This year, our May has been the best May ever because of the corporate meeting business we've been bringing in," said Bob Cote, the soft-spoken owner, whose father bought the place in the 1950's. "June looks just as good, even though we're in the off-season," he said. 
Tanque Verde started as a cattle ranch in 1868 and became a dude ranch in 1928. In the past year, a new conference center and desert nature-exhibit center have been opened and a sales staff expanded to attract more corporate meeting business to the 640-acre spread. 
Part of the attraction is that a dude ranch is strikingly different from the standard golf resort long favored for corporate meetings, with activities that can be enjoyed by a wide range of people who may not be golfers.
"We're having success because people are overwhelmed by the uniqueness of the setting," Mr. Cote said. "Also, meeting planners find that with a smaller setting'; away from urban distractions "the in-mix within their groups is much stronger," he said. In an environment like a ranch, communal dining, horses, and riding at all levels tend to be social equalizers that can break down stiff corporate hierarchical boundaries and enhance the business part of the gathering.
During our stay, there were about 30 leisure guests at the ranch, which draws visitors from all over the world. Another 100 or so guests were split between a corporate meeting and a gathering of executives and academics (including a contingent of astronomers) sponsored by the Cornell Adult University division of Cornell University. Their six-day program featured tours and lectures on desert ecology and on the night skies, which are strikingly vibrant in the Tucson area because of local initiatives to reduce ambient municipal lighting.
"The real bonus was being able to take advantage of riding when there was any free time," said Bill Froelich, a retired Wall Street executive who lives on the Caribbean island of Saba and who was with the Cornell group. "The riding trails in the desert made some of the ecology lectures more meaningful," said Mr. Froelich, who hadn't been on a horse in years but soon was yelping with joy as he cantered over the sand in a cloud of dust. 
David Larkin, the chief executive of TSNN.com, a Web site that publishes data on the corporate trade show and exhibition industries, said that many of the top show and meetings locations were now "totally hurting for business" and saddled with overcapacity. At the same time, hotels and resorts that have expanded and modernized their meetings and conference facilities, and offer unique experiences, are positioned to profit from the trend toward "smaller, more focused events," he said.
"There are so many great places to have a meeting now," he added. "Why have it in Cleveland if you can go to Arizona?"

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Chris Gash) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSES (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (87%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (83%); EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (76%); LEISURE TRAVEL (71%); HIKING (70%); DESERTS (66%); TRADE SHOWS (60%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: TRANQUE VERDE GUEST RANCH (TUCSON, ARIZ) 

PERSON: SHARKEY, JOE 

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (93%) ARIZONA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (88%) TUCSON (ARIZ)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2002 



678 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Colombian President-Elect Softens Tone on Rebels 

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO 

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, May 27 

 BODY:
He won the presidency promising to crack down on leftist rebels, but today President-elect Alvaro Uribe Velez struck a conciliatory tone, holding out the possibility of negotiating with guerrilla commanders under United Nations mediation.
 He told foreign journalists today that he hoped to set up a meeting with Secretary General Kofi Annan to discuss the possibility of initiating talks with the United Nations. Mr. Uribe also said that negotiations with a right-wing paramilitary group, bitter enemies of the rebels, were possible, a proposition his predecessors had declined to consider because of the widespread rights abuses perpetrated by the organization. 
 "We are going to look for general support for that initiative, and ask that the mission be completed by the United Nations," Mr. Uribe said. 
"What mission?" he added. "The mission of establishing communications with the insurgent movement."
A United Nations official said the world organization was "following with great interest Mr. Uribe's statements regarding a future role for the United Nations in a new peace process."
Mr. Uribe's vice president-elect, Francisco Santos, said the idea was to "open the door" to the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, the country's largest and most powerful guerrilla organization.
Talks with the group were broken off by President Andres Pastrana in February, as a result of a wave of rebel aggressions.
The guerrillas did not have an immediate response to Mr. Uribe's victory on Sunday or his comments today.
But analysts who have closely followed Colombia's conflict saw Mr. Uribe's remarks today as an effort to assuage concerns in the United States and Europe about his hard-line reputation by casting himself as a moderate willing to talk peace.
The analysts noted that the rebels were virtually sure to turn down any chance to negotiate under Mr. Uribe's demands: that they first declare a cease-fire and end hostile actions like kidnappings.
The rebels would be further alienated by Mr. Uribe's proposal to include the paramilitaries in talks.
"This to defuse his critics who say, based on his campaign, that he is a warrior, not a peacemaker," said Larry Birns, director of the Council on Hemispheric Affairs, a Washington policy research group. "He has to communicate to the world that he is not Dr. Strangelove, that he's not going to blow up the country in the process of exterminating the guerrillas."
Mr. Birns, however, said there was little reason to believe that Mr. Uribe -- who cast himself as the candidate of the "hard hand" during the campaign -- would be committed to ensuring that negotiations reopened.
"He has to go through a pro-forma performance," Mr. Birns said, "so he will be able to say, 'I've tried the negotiating card and it was not picked up."' 
To be sure, the president-elect's main plank -- to double the size of both the army's combat force and the National Police and create a million-member civilian force of informers -- is seen by human rights groups as a dangerous plan that could lead to a wider war and increased rights abuses. 
Mr. Uribe, however, says that Colombia is locked in a war against terrorism and should have the support of the international community. "Any country in a democratic world needs to have solidarity with the democratic society of Colombia, which is suffering this violence that is just terrorism," Mr. Uribe said in halting English.
During his campaign, Mr. Uribe was highly critical of President Pastrana's peace talks with rebels, which were held in the midst of a spiraling conflict and ultimately ended in failure. Mr. Pastrana did not ask for United Nations mediation during the talks, instead using peace negotiators from the organization as advisers to the two parties.
In the day since Mr. Uribe's election victory, congratulations have flowed in from the American ambassador, Anne Patterson, and other foreign officials. For many of them, Mr. Uribe's victory, by a margin that avoided a runoff for the first time in a decade, demonstrated unequivocal support for his proposals.
"The desire of the majority of the Colombian people has been to support the candidacy of Mr. Uribe," said Jose Salafranca, a Spaniard who led a mission of election observers from the European Community. "After yesterday's election, it is evident that he has enormous democratic legitimacy." For Mr. Uribe, remaining legitimate in the eyes of the world is crucial if his administration is to improve a slow-growing economy and receive the loans necessary to embark on various government programs.
Mr. Uribe, 49, who has studied at Harvard and Oxford, said he was counting on continued support from the United States to eradicate illegal drug crops and to deal with the rebels. The United States already helps Colombia on the drug war, but the Bush administration is trying to expand aid for counterguerrilla operations.
"We need the help of the United States in order to preserve our democracy," Mr. Uribe said. "And to preserve our democracy, we can no longer suffer from terrorism." 
The president-elect also stressed the need to work closely with Colombia's neighbors on security issues.
Drug trafficking and the conflict often spill over Colombia's borders, particularly into Venezuela and Ecuador, with guerrillas and drug traffickers crossing frontiers.
"If this is not resolved, this conflict has the dangerous potential of destabilizing Latin America," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers removed campaign posters of a losing candidate, Luis Garzon, in Bogota yesterday. Alvaro Uribe Velez won with 53 percent of the vote. (Associated Press); Mr. Uribe, the president-elect, has a reputation as a hard-liner. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (91%); LIBERALISM (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POLITICS (73%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (66%) FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (55%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: ALVARO URIBE (94%) FORERO, JUAN; ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN); URIBE VELEZ, ALVARO 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (92%) COLOMBIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%) COLOMBIA

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2002 



679 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Layoffs at Bayer Plant Are Seen as Blow to West Haven Economy 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WEST HAVEN, Conn., May 27 

 BODY:
Residents and business leaders are looking warily to the future after last week's announcement that the city's largest employer, the international drug maker Bayer, was laying off 150 of its 2,300 local employees immediately and would eliminate 500 jobs by the end of next year.
 The layoffs announced last Wednesday are among 1,200 the company will make from its worldwide pharmaceutical business in the wake of last year's withdrawal of the drug Baycol from the market. Baycol was packaged at West Haven's Morgan Lane plant, which straddles the city's line with suburban Orange. 
 Most of the people who are losing their jobs are West Haven residents, and West Haven businesses that have been Bayer suppliers are also facing serious losses. It is a severe blow to a small, struggling industrial city of 52,000 people trying to come back from years of economic decline. 
"It's obviously devastating for the city and the region," Mayor Richard Borer Jr. of West Haven said. "Having your largest employer reduce one quarter of the work force has sent shock waves through the greater New Haven area."
Mr. Borer is worried about more than the layoffs and Bayer's international reorganization, which will mean elimination of manufacturing and packaging at the West Haven plant. For years it has been the company's North American pharmaceutical headquarters and the city's top employer and taxpayer.
Despite assurances by Bayer that other operations at the West Haven site are secure, Mr. Borer and other economic and community leaders need only look to the past to be worried. They said the situation was reminiscent of a move by another top taxpayer and employer that was a mainstay in West Haven for more than half a century: the former Armstrong Rubber and Tire Company, which made similar promises more than 30 years ago, when it moved its manufacturing operations out of West Haven in the early 1970's. The final vestiges of the company, a small storage center, closed down during Mr. Borer's first term in office in the early 1990's.
"This is all part of the new fiscal realities we are now facing in corporate America today," he said. "There was a time when people worked for 25 or 30 years in one place and retired. Now, the challenge we have is to help train these people for new positions."
By the end of 2003, manufacturing and packaging of drugs will cease at Bayer's West Haven plant, with those operations moving to plants in Kansas and Germany, said Meredith Fischer, a vice president of communications for Bayer. But she said Bayer remained committed to keeping a significant presence in West Haven, structured mostly around research and development as well as sales and marketing operations. 
"We're doing innovative work in the area of oncology and with other areas of research, and West Haven will continue to be an important part of that," Ms. Fischer said. "Bayer has no intention of leaving West Haven."
Still, city and regional economic leaders said they were taking nothing for granted.
Ferdinand Messore, executive director of the city's Economic Development Corporation, said, "One of the keys to the city's economic revival could be its richest resource: our seven miles of shorefront and two miles of public beaches," which represent a large slice of the state's Long Island Sound shoreline.
Promoting tourism with the vast public beaches, trying to develop a 100-acre technology campus off Route 34 and attempting to draw large retail operations to West Haven are among the ways the city can diversify its economic base, he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); DISMISSALS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PACKAGING (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); TRENDS (68%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (64%); TIRES (62%) DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; LABOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BAYCOL (DRUG) 

COMPANY: BAYER AG (95%)

ORGANIZATION: BAYER AG 

TICKER: BAYN (FRA) (95%); BAY (MCE) (95%); BAY (BIT) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%) CONNECTICUT, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (70%) WEST HAVEN (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2002 



680 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Europeans Press Fight in W.T.O. Against American Tariffs on Steel

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH OLSON 

DATELINE: GENEVA, May 27 

 BODY:
Pressing ahead with efforts to overturn the Bush administration's protective tariffs on steel imports, the European Union has taken a significant step in the long process of challenging the tariffs in the World Trade Organization's dispute resolution system. 
 The 15 European Union nations are the first of the W.T.O.'s 144 members to have their tariff complaints formally considered by the organization, but they are not expected to be the last. Japan and South Korea have said that they will join in the complaints if the tariffs are not withdrawn, and Brazil, China, New Zealand, Switzerland and Norway have taken preliminary steps to follow suit. 
 All these nations say that the tariffs, introduced by the Bush administration in March to help the depressed American steel industry, flout global trade rules. American officials defend the measures, which impose duties up to 30 percent on certain categories of steel imports, as permissible under a "safeguard" exception built into the rules when a harmful flood of imports occurs. 
The European Union has announced its own safeguard measures to stave off cheap steel diverted from the United States market by the American tariffs. And it has threatened to retaliate against selected American exports under a separate, faster World Trade Organization procedure covering safeguard measures.
But a bigger fight over the legality of the American steel tariffs is expected to play out more slowly in the W.T.O.'s dispute resolution system. The Europeans started the process earlier in the month by demanding the establishment of a panel of experts to examine the tariffs. The United States refused to agree, but under the organization's rules it has no veto, only the power to delay the panel's creation for a short time. The panel is expected to be set up next Monday.
The European trade negotiator, Carlo Trojan, told the W.T.O. there was no evidence that steel imports had been increasing in the United States before the Bush administration acted, a requirement under the safeguard rules.
In a sign of how contentious the tariff issue has become, Mr. Trojan accused the United States of trying to make other countries pay for its failure to restructure its steel industry. Speaking in a closed-door session, he said similar protective measures imposed by Washington had been overturned six times before, and the new tariffs would not pass muster either.
The Bush administration insists that its action complied with global trade agreements, and says it will eventually prevail at the trade organization.
The Europeans have claimed $2.2 billion in compensation to offset the injury they say their steel industries have suffered from the American tariffs, and have filed plans with the W.T.O. to retaliate. Last Tuesday, they released a list of products potentially subject to about $300 million in punitive tariffs, including cigarettes produced in American states that could be pivotal in November's Congressional elections. The punitive tariffs are to take effect on June 18, but Washington has asked for a delay; trade diplomats say the United States may want more time to negotiate a settlement involving compensation. 
In Washington, a spokesman for the American trade representative, Robert B. Zoellick, criticized the Europeans for taking unilateral action against steel imports destined for the United States.
"When others threaten unilateral actions, they undermine the rule of law in W.T.O., and risk unraveling the multilateral trading system," the spokesman, Richard Mills, said. "We continue to urge others not to take these unilateral actions, and we hope that reason will prevail."
China followed the European Union on Friday by imposing its own measures to exclude steel diverted from the United States by the new tariffs. The action brings China into its first trade dispute since entering the W.T.O. in November.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TARIFFS & DUTIES (94%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); VETO (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); ELECTIONS (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (50%) STEEL AND IRON; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); CUSTOMS (TARIFF); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%) EUROPEAN UNION; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: OLSON, ELIZABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (92%); NORWAY (92%); BRAZIL (92%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%) EUROPE; JAPAN; SOUTH KOREA; BRAZIL; NEW ZEALAND; SWITZERLAND; NORWAY

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2002 



681 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: Handling Sinners and Victims of Domestic Hell; 
Sad Hallways and Broken Lives in an Overburdened Family Court System

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF 

 BODY:
Family Court is perhaps the saddest place in New York.
 It is where society gathers the child abusers, juvenile delinquents, deadbeat dads, bickering parents, wife beaters and the Cains and Abels. 
 There have been some significant changes in the system over the past five years. Proceedings have been made open to the public. Judges now specialize in specific family problems. Referees deal with custody and visitation matters, and hearing examiners deal strictly with paternity and financial support cases. Night courts opened in Brooklyn and the Bronx a few years ago and there are now satellite court offices in Harlem, Red Hook and Long Island City. A new Queens courthouse will open in the fall. 
But despite this, the hallways of Family Court grow more crowded every year as people turn to the system to solve their problems and the government steps in to prevent cruelties. Consider: there were 190,430 new cases filed in Family Court in 1990; 198,989 in 1995 and 240,709 in 2000. Officials don't expect the numbers to drop.
Most every type of family feud is dealt with at Family Court except, paradoxically, the dissolution of the family itself. (Divorces are handled in State Supreme Court.)
The crowds at the city's family courts are thick, the attitudes are often bad and some stories fall over the cliff of the cockamamie. Recently, one parent told a judge in Manhattan that she slipped in a moment of anger and her hands accidentally wrapped around her daughter's windpipe. The judge could only roll her eyes.
"This is not family court, it's a disaster court," said Paul Cooper, a lawyer who is representing a mother at Queens Family Court who is accused of starving her infant with a strict vegetarian diet. "You pull the roof off of this building and you're looking into the bedroom of America. The family is crumbling, the bedroom's on fire and we're asking the judges to be the grandparents here. It gets worse every year."
To say that the system is overburdened is to put it mildly, lawyers, judges and unhappy citizens agree. About two million New Yorkers walked through the metal detectors of Family Court last year as defendants, character witnesses and the like. Sometimes the visit is a good occasion. Three thousand adoptions are consummated here each year. But most of the 750,000 appearances in family court last year meant bad news for someone. 
Some Legal Aid lawyers, who among other things represent children against their abusive parents, handle as many as 110 cases at any one time.
"In some cases we as a society are failing our kids," said Kim McLauren, the attorney in charge of the Queens Legal Aid Society, who stopped to speak for a moment the other day, balancing an armload of manila files. "The system is overtaxed. We should be investing in children, not cutting back programs."
Money cannot be the prime motivator for this job: a first-year Legal Aid lawyer is paid about $43,000 a year and gets a raise to $53,257 after five years. Private lawyers paid by the state to represent battered and indigent women have not gotten a raise in 16 years. On most cases they earn $25 an hour out of court and $40 in front of a judge, rates among the lowest in the nation. Children's advocates criticize the system while applauding its judges, court officers and lawyers, describing their work as herculean.
"The courts are understaffed, caseloads are really high, the buildings are inadequate for the amount of people going through there," said Gail B. Nayowith, executive director of Citizens' Committee for Children of New York, an independent advocacy group. "The backlog for these cases are weeks and months. The workloads are incredible considering that we are making life and death decisions for kids."
The system was devised before the days of crack and the divorce epidemic. Add to that a more litigious society, a greater willingness to report abuse and no compunction about airing arguments in the post-Jerry-Springer world, and you have the modern Family Court.
"People use family court to play out their animosities, and it clogs it up," said Joseph M. Lauria, administrative judge of New York City Family Court. "You get to know some of these families. The good part is we can help with long-term resolutions of family problems."
Family Court is not a tribunal of instant gratification. While you are guaranteed that you will see the judge the day you are called to court, the chances are better than good that you will see the judge again for many more days over the span of many more years.
In civil matters, the courts can attract a surly, frivolous element, since there are no filing fees and the government not only obliges but instructs the do-it-yourself lawyers who gum up the system.
These kitchen-table counselors seem to think the definition of justice is "give me what I want" and the process of discovery is something like "Yo, the guy in the hallway don't have to pay child support because he don't have a Social Security number, so why should I have to sign over my unemployment check?"
The current family courthouse in Queens is a former public library retrofitted in the early 70's. It is an old rundown building with municipal smells and filthy windows and rows of plastic chairs on each floor. The walls are papered in admonitions: no smoking, no caustic chemicals, no entry, no, no, no. 
The referees hear cases in offices no bigger than a broom closet. People -- former confidants and lovers -- bicker, scream, throw fists. The waiting rooms are snake pits of accusation and recrimination. A woman got stuck between floors in the elevator and when service resumed, her ex-husband was waiting on the third floor to laugh at her.
Take the case of Leon v. Gallo, a couple who got along famously until their daughter was 4. Then, according to court papers filed by Anthony Gallo, things fell apart between him and Ana Tapia-Leon, the mother of his daughter, Gabrielle, and the woman he now refers to as his former paramour.
"For reasons known only to the respondent," his affidavit for visitation rights said about Ms. Tapia-Leon, "and over what appeared to be a very short time, her feelings for me dramatically changed." While the root of their problem lies in this phrase somewhere, neither could explain where the anger began. They have been in court a dozen times over three years bickering about custody.
As if proof was needed of his love for his child, Mr. Gallo, 38, recently showed a tattoo of "Gabrielle" on his chest. In support of his character, he dressed in new shoes and a tie, and carried letters of reference from his barber and a local deli clerk.
He wept. "I miss my daughter and that monster won't let me see her."
On the other end of the grubby waiting room, Ms. Tapia-Leon sat alone with her tears. She maintains that Mr. Gallo abused their daughter, although court-mandated investigations have revealed no evidence to its truth.
Ms. Tapia Leon carried many papers, among them a drawing by Gabrielle that read "no." 
"You see, my daughter doesn't want to see that man," she said, and to that effect she vowed to fight Mr. Gallo to her dying day.
"I'm an educated woman," she said. "I went to university and I keep an immaculate home. I thought these kind of things happened to drug addicts and alcoholics. I never thought I'd be in a place like this, and I blame him for it."
The former lovers eventually got to see a judge near the end of the afternoon. The outcome? Come back in two weeks. Just in time for Father's Day.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Waiting for cases to be called in Queens Family Court this month. "You pull the roof off of this building and you're looking into the bedroom of America," one lawyer said. (Edward Keating/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY COURTS (96%); FAMILY LAW (91%); FAMILY (91%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (90%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (90%); JUDGES (89%); CHILD ABUSE (89%); LAWYERS (89%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (79%); LEGAL AID (78%); CHILDREN (78%); WITNESSES (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); LEGAL PATERNITY (73%); STARVATION (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (67%); MEAT FREE DIETS (50%); METAL DETECTORS (50%) COURTS; FAMILY COURTS 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: LEDUFF, CHARLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2002 



682 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: Restaurants On Other Rows Are Suffering 

BYLINE:  By JAYSON BLAIR 

 BODY:
A little more than three years ago, Mark Henegan opened a restaurant in a gentrifying Brooklyn neighborhood, an area of black middle-class workers who had long been east of the East River and white professionals who had just begun migrating from the other side.
 It was a gamble for Mr. Henegan, a successful chef at the South African Consulate and at Il Buco, the Greenwich Village Mediterranean bistro for the gold-card crowd. Several dozen permits and $150,000 later, Mr. Henegan, now 34, opened a South African restaurant, Madiba, which takes its name from the clan of Nelson Mandela, and is on what was a struggling stretch of DeKalb Avenue in Fort Greene. 
 The bet more than paid off, and as DeKalb Avenue challenged Smith Street in Boerum Hill and Carroll Gardens as the Restaurant Row of Brooklyn, Mr. Henegan's fortunes seemed on the rise. 
It should come as no surprise that the Sept. 11 terrorist attack changed all that. The attack did not cause Mr. Henegan to close his doors or cause customers to stop coming by. Diners still come, but they spend less. Banks, nervous about restaurants that went under after the attack, will not increase his credit a penny. Unlike his competitors in Lower Manhattan who received financial assistance after the attack, the only thing Mr. Henegan says he has ever received from the government is a couple of fines for sidewalk-cafe-permit violations.
"We have struggled a lot," he said. "People are worried about the economy falling, and people are worried about the unknown. People are worried about keeping money on the side, just in case."
In the city's restaurant industry, places outside Manhattan are among those suffering the most from the recession and from Sept. 11. This is particularly true in neighborhoods like Fort Greene that were undergoing a renaissance before the economic boom ended.
The problems are not limited to Fort Greene. Along Arthur Avenue in the Bronx, restaurateurs report similar problems. The same complaints can be heard in Harlem, one of the neighborhoods other than Lower Manhattan hurt the most by the sharp drop in tourism dollars. And the fish-and-chips joints of Long Island City, Queens, are not immune.
Tim Zagat, chairman of Zagat Survey, the restaurant guide, and former chairman of the city's convention and visitors bureau, NYC & Company, said that while leading suburban restaurants had record sales in the weeks after Sept. 11 as commuters ate close to home, those in the city outside Manhattan's core suffered a twofold loss.
Unlike the suburban restaurants, those in the city's outlying neighborhoods relied a great deal on the tourist trade, and more people in those areas were also being laid off and thus eating out less, or at least eating out more cheaply, than in the rest of the city.
"Part of the problem," Mr. Zagat explained, "is that there were substantial layoffs in restaurants, hotels and retailing, and I think a lot of those people live in places like Harlem and Fort Greene."
Hotels, restaurants and many other businesses in the city's $25 billion tourism industry were already in a slump before the attack, because of the softening economy. After Sept. 11, at least 30 restaurants in the city closed and 40 more in Lower Manhattan had to shut down temporarily.
By October, industry officials said, more than 15,000 restaurant workers in the city had been laid off, 5,000 of them outside Manhattan south of 96th Street.
In the months that followed, many New Yorkers seemed to heed Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's call to go out and spend. And state and federal agencies offered economic assistance packages to the small businesses near ground zero that suffered the most.
But the problem for people like Mr. Henegan was that restaurants like Madiba, four miles from ground zero, were not eligible for assistance, and the patriotic dollars were being spent mostly in Midtown and in Lower Manhattan.
In neighborhoods outside Manhattan south of 96th Street, where layoffs of restaurant workers grew to an estimated 7,500 by January, restaurants suffered less than those in Lower Manhattan, but were left to fend for themselves, according to the hotel and restaurant union.
Looking back, Mr. Henegan said he considered his restaurant's opening in 1999 a monumental challenge. "You need a good architect, a good lawyer, someone to expedite the permits," he pointed out. "You need lots of money, real estate savvy, good suppliers, a crystal ball and a good idea. Restaurants, after all, are the small businesses with the highest rates of failure."
Before the attack, the restaurateurs along DeKalb Avenue were talking about forming a neighborhood merchants' association. Madiba and other restaurants in the neighborhood, like the Buttercup Lounge and Chez Oscar down the block, have since done that, creating the DeKalb Avenue Merchants Association. But instead of taking up the task of adding lights to a local basketball court or planning a summer food festival in Fort Greene Park or hanging holiday lights, the group is focused on keeping the avenue's once-vibrant small businesses alive. 
"Our goal is to keep the cultural and culinary renaissance in this neighborhood -- one that took hard work -- alive," said Jean-Baptiste Caillet, a former manager at Balthazar who is co-owner of A Table, a French bistro on Lafayette Avenue, a few blocks from Madiba.
Those efforts have not been enough to offset the damage from the downturn. Several restaurants decided to jettison their sidewalk cafes because city fees and permits for them cost $3,000 a year. Some decided not to contribute food to school and other neighborhood events. Others say they are simply bouncing many more checks and hiring fewer employees lately.
The rub for Mr. Henegan, who came to New York from South Africa in 1987 with the dream of starting his own restaurant, is that "even though more people have moved into the neighborhood, some trying to get away from Lower Manhattan, it has become much harder for us because people are spending less."
As Zulu dancers performed in Madiba one recent night, Mr. Henegan tried to put a bright note on the restaurants' troubles. "It has really made us take care of our business more, not take things for granted, and understand how blessed we are," he said. "It's easy to give up sometimes, but sometimes you have to look and see what all you have, even if you are in debt."
Raising a jug of passion fruit and rum, he added, "It's all good, man." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Business has declined at many restaurants throughout the city since the terrorist attack. Madiba, in Fort Greene, Brooklyn, which serves South African food, still has customers, but it also has empty tables. (Alan Chin for The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (93%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (88%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (78%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (78%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); TRENDS (73%); SALES FIGURES (73%); TERRORISM (72%); DINING OUT TRENDS (72%); HIJACKING (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); RECESSION (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (67%); TOURISM (67%); LAYOFFS (64%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (60%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (60%) RESTAURANTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM; FINANCES; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

PERSON: BLAIR, JAYSON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2002 



683 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: State Senator, Elected in '65, Won't Return 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: ALBANY, May 27 

 BODY:
Senator Ronald B. Stafford, the second-longest-serving member of the State Senate and the chairman of the powerful Finance Committee, announced today he would not seek re-election in the fall, ending an almost four-decade-long career for the Adirondack Republican.
 The senator's decision is not likely to alter the balance of power in the upper house, because Republican voters are in the majority in his sparsely populated district in the northeastern part of the state. But his departure will leave the Senate without one of its staunchest and most candid conservatives. 
 Two Republican members of the Assembly, Elizabeth O'C. Little of Queensbury, and Chris Ortloff of Plattsburgh, have already expressed an interest in running for Mr. Stafford's seat, Republican party officials said.
Senator Stafford, 66, survived a bout with cancer 15 years ago, but he said today that his health was not a factor in his decision to step down. He said he wanted to retire to spend more time with his family and pursue his law practice, teaching and business interests. "I'm not going to really retire but it's time to shift gears," he said in an interview. "I'm not tired of it. I think it's really more realizing you have done it for 37 years and it's time to move on and do something else."
The Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, praised Senator Stafford as a "guardian up there in the Adirondacks," and a pragmatic legislator who had made sure his district received its share of state aid. He was instrumental in bringing the Olympics to Lake Placid in 1980 and in securing millions of dollars in state aid for Plattsburgh's economy after a nearby Air Force base was closed in 1995. He was also the sponsor in the Senate of the state Tuition Assistance Program, which provides scholarships to college students.
"I think his legacy will be that he has really just looked after his constituency in every respect," Senator Bruno said. "Nothing happened in the Adirondacks without his input and his guidance."
The senator often butted heads with environmentalists, as he pushed for policies within Adirondack Park that, in his view, balanced environmental concerns with the economic needs of residents.
But he was also a friend of the environment in other respects. In the 1980's, he spearheaded a move in the Senate to pass changes to tort law allowing people poisoned by pollution more time to file suit, a bill the Senate leadership opposed. He also was pivotal in passage of an important bond act to pay for toxic-waste cleanup and other environmental programs in 1996 even though it was unpopular with his constituency.
Mr. Stafford was first elected to the Senate in 1965 and has headed the Finance Committee since 1993.
Senator Bruno said a decision on who would become the Finance Committee chairman would probably be made after November's election. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (87%); INTERVIEWS (79%); LITIGATION (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); BONDS (69%); WATER POLLUTION (68%); TORTS (67%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); TUITION FEES (67%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (67%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (65%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (62%); ARMED FORCES (50%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (50%); AIR FORCES (50%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (50%) ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; STAFFORD, RONALD B (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (69%) UNITED STATES (79%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2002 



684 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Confidence In Germany Helps Stocks In Europe 

BYLINE:  By Agence France-Presse 

 BODY:
European share prices edged higher yesterday after a surprise jump in the key German Ifo confidence index indicated a strengthening recovery in Europe's largest economy.
 The absence of direction from the United States markets, closed for a federal holiday, left European markets to focus on themselves, where volumes were slim, dealers said. 
 The Frankfurt DAX 30 index added 1.27 percent to reach 4,961.54 points, while the Paris CAC 40 index climbed 0.54 percent, to 4,360.71 points. 
In London, the FTSE 100 index ended 0.63 percent lower at 5,136.3 points.
The euro briefly nudged up to 92.16 United States cents after Germany's Ifo research institute said that its business climate index for western Germany had risen to 91.5 points in May from 90.5 the previous month, as opposed to an expected rise to 90.8. The euro fell back to 92.07 cents in late London trading.
Dealers said that while the survey had helped European markets shrug off the negative influence from the United States, where stocks closed disappointingly lower on Friday, enthusiasm was limited.
The British mobile phone giant Vodafone was off six pence at 107 -- a 5 percent fall -- ahead of today's full-year results.
In Frankfurt, Deutsche Telekom shares jumped 4.18 percent, to 12.45 euros, after the German government said it would not sell any more of its stake in the financially troubled group until market conditions had improved. Dealers said the stock was benefiting from a technical rebound and reports of job cuts.
A bomb threat at the Frankfurt exchange, which led to the evacuation of all floor traders for about an hour in the afternoon, only initially, and slightly, upset share prices, according to dealers.
In Paris, Vivendi Universal closed up 1.64 percent, at 34.04 euros, as momentum continued to gather ahead of the company's board meeting tomorrow, when investors expect the company to announce plans to dispose of part of its 63 percent holding in Vivendi Environnement.
Asian stock markets were mostly lower yesterday in lackluster trading. Singapore, Kuala Lumpur and Bangkok were closed, but of the markets that remained open only Tokyo, Taipei and Jakarta were in positive territory.
Japanese share prices ended only fractionally higher, finishing just below the symbolic 12,000-point level where they had been drifting all day, led by domestic stocks and technology issues, brokers said.
The Nikkei 225-stock average of the Tokyo Stock Exchange closed up 0.07 point at 11,976.35, marking a nine-month high. 
In Hong Kong, share prices fell 0.5 percent after losses on Wall Street late last week. The Hang Seng index lost 62.05 points, to close at 11,564.73, with dealers saying that many investors chose to sit the session out as sentiment was cautious.
Marty Chan, a Polaris Securities analyst, said the market had been fairly directionless throughout the day, with a lack of corporate news to push it in one direction or the other.
South Korean share prices fell 1.6 percent, as concerns developed that the won's sharp gains against the dollar would have a negative impact on exports. The composite index closed down 14 points, at 840.57.
Taiwan share prices closed 0.4 percent higher as bargain hunting and apparent support from government funds offset the negative impact of Saturday's jetliner crash on China Airlines and insurance stocks. The weighted index closed up 23.5 points, at 5,729.90, off a low of 5,623.88 and a high of 5,733.97.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); TRENDS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (71%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (66%); TALKS & MEETINGS (62%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (57%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: VIVENDI (83%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (83%); VEOLIA ENVIRONNEMENT SA (52%); YUANTA POLARIS SECURITIES CO LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: IFO INSTITUTE 

TICKER: VIV (PAR) (83%); VIV (BIT) (83%); DTE (FRA) (83%); DTE (BIT) (83%); VIE (PAR) (52%); VE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (83%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (83%); NAICS562111 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (52%); NAICS221320 SEWAGE TREATMENT FACILITIES (52%); NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (93%) GERMANY (97%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (91%); JAPAN (90%); FRANCE (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); ASIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (76%) GERMANY; GREAT BRITAIN; JAPAN; HONG KONG; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2002 



685 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: A Busy Legislator Who Hopes to Challenge Torricelli 

BYLINE:  By IVER PETERSON 

DATELINE: MOORESTOWN, N.J. 

 BODY:
State Senator Diane Allen's mother had warned her that a college degree in philosophy was not exactly a ticket to full employment, and she turned out to be right, more or less. 
 The best Ms. Allen could do when she graduated from Bucknell University in Lewisburg, Pa., was a job reading public-service announcements over WJJZ in Mount Holly, a 500-watt farm station here in South Jersey that only broadcast during the daytime. 
 Yet her inauspicious start in broadcasting led to a career in television broadcast news that made Ms. Allen something of a household name in South Jersey. 
That visibility paved the way for her to enter state politics and put her on a path that Ms. Allen hopes will now lead to a victory over two other Republicans in the June 4 primary, and the chance to face the Democratic incumbent, Robert G. Torricelli, in the election for the United States Senate.
The other candidates in the Republican primary are State Senator John Matheussen and Douglas Forrester, a wealthy businessman and the former mayor of West Windsor.
Until 1994, Ms. Allen, 54, was a news anchor on WCAU-TV, the NBC outlet in Philadelphia. That is where she developed her interest in public affairs, she says, and her desire to escape the constraints of journalistic impartiality.
"I could help by telling you about problems that you had to watch out for, but I couldn't solve those problems," Ms. Allen said in addressing the Moorestown Republican Club's annual lunch at the Riverton Country Club. 
"But when I was able to move on to the political world, I found the answer: that's where you solve the problems, that's where the public service really makes a difference."
Winning election to the Assembly once and the Senate twice, Ms. Allen became a tireless drafter of legislation. 
She has introduced 196 pieces of legislation in the current legislative session alone, vastly more than the 30 or 40 bills that seem to be the norm for a senator. 
In her rush of bills for such diverse aims as lowering electrical rates for volunteer fire companies, strengthening the prosecution of firearms crimes, exempting recreational safety helmets from the sales tax and prohibiting deceptive advertising practices, Ms. Allen appears to embrace an activist role for government that is in keeping with her reputation as a liberal on social issues.
Polls have indicated that her relatively liberal positions could help her in the general election. The polls taken so far show her running the strongest of the three Republican candidates against Mr. Torricelli, perhaps because New Jersey's broadly moderate electorate has tended to favor activist, problem-oriented candidates. 
In a Fairleigh Dickinson University poll released May 22, she ran 15 percentage points behind Mr. Torricelli in a hypothetical matchup, as 45 percent of registered voters favored Mr. Torricelli and 30 percent chose Ms. Allen. In contrast, Mr. Matheussen and Mr. Forrester each ran 20 points behind Mr. Torricelli.
The poll did not match the Republican primary contenders against each other, but other polls have shown Mr. Forrester leading Ms. Allen among Republicans in a hypothetical matchup.
New Jersey Republican primaries tend to be dominated by members of the party's conservative wing, and in this race, Ms. Allen has de-emphasized her support for abortion rights and her opposition, as a Quaker, to the death penalty. 
Instead, she talks about her sponsorship of the state's no-early-release law requiring violent criminals to serve 80 percent of their sentence before becoming eligible for parole, and about two real estate tax rebate initiatives, the New Jersey Saver program and the Homestead Rebate program. 
In presenting her conservative side, Ms. Allen has had to battle the perception among some of her colleagues that her chief interests are in traditional women's issues like health care, child safety and education.
"I'm a fiscal conservative," she told the Moorestown Republicans. "I voted to cut taxes more than 40 times in the State Legislature, and I have never voted for a tax increase. We don't need to, because we can live within our means."
In an interview after that speech, she said: "I really have a record of accomplishment, and they can look at it and they will see that I brought more money into my district than anyone else brought into their district for economic revitalization. I've done more along those lines than anybody, which is why it just tickles me when I hear, 'Oh yeah, she's women's issues.' "
Ms. Allen was born in Newark and grew up in Burlington County, where her father was an engineer and her mother a Republican town committeewoman. 
She said that she always considered herself a Republican, and that when her career in television ended, after winning Emmys and a Peabody award, she was quickly recruited to run in the Seventh District, covering parts of Burlington and Camden Counties, where Democrats have long dominated.
With her TV-driven name-recognition and determined campaign style, Ms. Allen defeated a Democratic incumbent in the Assembly and two years later, in 1997, the district's Democratic senator. She won re-election last year by a margin of 10 percentage points.
Without a presidential or gubernatorial race on the ballot, leaders of both parties expect the June 4 primary turnout to be well below the 348,000 votes cast in last year's primary, perhaps as low as 200,000. With her base in South Jersey, her strategists believe she can win a three-way split, and she has so far reported having just under $300,000 in her campaign fund, though $95,000 of it is her own money. 
It is a fair-sized amount for a low-turnout campaign without the heavy television expenses of a general campaign, but Ms. Allen admitted being worried about Mr. Forrester, who reports putting $3.1 million of his own money into the race. In a comment that referred to her fund-raising but that could also speak to the general state of her campaign, Ms. Allen said, "If I didn't have somebody blanketing the state with millions of dollars, I'd be doing really well. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Diane Allen and her campaign manager in the G.O.P. primary, Brian Donahue. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (88%); POLLS & SURVEYS (86%); LIBERALISM (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); CONSUMER LAW (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (62%) ELECTIONS; PRIMARIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: BUCKNELL UNIVERSITY (58%) SENATE (US) 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER; ALLEN, DIANE (SEN); MATHEUSSEN, JOHN (SEN); FORRESTER, DOUGLAS; TORRICELLI, ROBERT G (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2002 



686 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1811 words

HEADLINE: New York Philanthropy Embraces a Charismatic French Executive 

BYLINE:  By ROBIN POGREBIN 

 BODY:
In France, Jean-Marie Messier, the embattled chief executive of Vivendi Universal, is under attack over many of his management decisions and accusations that he is abandoning his French cultural roots for life as an America-centric media mogul. 
 But in New York City, where he and his family moved from Paris eight months ago, the handsome, charismatic Mr. Messier, 45, has received a much warmer reception in the glittering world of cultural philanthropy, where the breadth of his growing involvement is rare, even for the most civic-minded corporate titan. 
 Mr. Messier has been welcomed onto the board of the Whitney Museum of American Art and has become a vice chairman of the Museum of Television and Radio's new media center. He is being considered for the board of the Metropolitan Opera. His wife, Antoinette Messier, recently joined the board of the New York Philharmonic. 
Over the next few months he will be honored at large fund-raising dinners by the New York Public Library and the Appeal of Conscience Foundation, an interfaith group that promotes tolerance. This Thursday, the Messiers are also vice chairman and vice chairwoman of the annual dinner of the Robin Hood Foundation. The group supports antipoverty programs in the city. And after receiving a humanitarian award from the Simon Wiesenthal Foundation and Museum of Tolerance in Los Angeles earlier this month, Mr. Messier committed himself to helping build a Tolerance Center on 42nd Street.
With each commitment comes the understanding that the Messiers will make significant corporate donations, and attached to each award is the assumption that the Messier name and involvement will help raise additional funds.
Mr. Messier's smooth entree into New York is one of the clearest examples of how an outsider with financial resources, status and connections can penetrate the city's inner circle of culture and philanthropy, even as his corporate leadership comes under severe attack. 
With economic uncertainty affecting charitable giving, a potential big donor like Mr. Messier with a major company bankrolling him is a prime target for nonprofit institutions. And for Mr. Messier, getting on boards and receiving awards offers a way to anchor himself in New York and gain access to the city's channels of power.
David Resnicow, president of Resnicow Schroeder, a consultant that matches museums and corporate sponsors, said Mr. Messier's charitable involvement was crucial to a French company trying to establish itself as a global company. "They need to Americanize the company," he said. "It's important to have a presence in New York and Los Angeles. What better way to integrate yourself into the political, social, business and cultural leadership than by getting involved in museums and other cultural institutions?"
Mr. Messier has transformed his former utility company into the world's second-largest media giant -- trailing AOL Time Warner -- largely by buying Seagram and its Universal media operations in 2000 for $34 billion and adding on several other purchases. 
But the transformation has often been rocky, and over the last few months the company's stock has plummeted and its credit rating has dropped. Some shareholders are campaigning for Mr. Messier's resignation.
On the cultural front, despite his financial support of institutions like the Pompidou Center and leading roles with the Orchestra of Paris and the Aix-en-Provence Festival, Mr. Messier's firing of Pierre Lescure last month as chief executive of Vivendi's pay television unit, Canal Plus, set off protests. Canal Plus is a major financier of French films, and the dismissal was seen by many in France as one of several indications of a tilt by Mr. Messier away from supporting French culture.
In New York he has set up his office in the Seagram Building, and his family (he and his wife have five children) has moved into a $17.5-million Park Avenue apartment paid for by Vivendi.
Through a spokeswoman Mr. Messier declined to comment. In a statement the company said, "Vivendi Universal's philanthropic activities reflect the commitment of the company to support social missions and improve the welfare of the communities in which we live and work."
At Vivendi, Patsy Glazer, the vice president for public affairs, who handles the company's North American philanthropy and was formerly Seagram's public relations director, refused to comment.
Mr. Messier's professional difficulties in Paris seem remote on the New York cultural scene, where leaders of several organizations said they welcomed his involvement and did not focus on his current battles. He has inherited relationships that Seagram and Universal nurtured for years with various charities, and much to the liking of culturati on this side of the Atlantic he genuinely seems to like American culture.
"I'd like to think that his professed enthusiasm for things American is directly tied to his joining our board at the Museum of American Art," said Maxwell L. Anderson, director of the Whitney.
What in effect was Mr. Messier's coming-out party here took place at the World Economic Forum at the Waldorf-Astoria last January when Vivendi was the host at a concert that featured Bono and Peter Gabriel and became the hottest ticket in town.
But the seeds of his involvement in New York were planted long before. 
At a May 2000 dinner party in New York City given by Anne Cox Chambers, who serves on the Whitney's national committee -- a by-nomination-only group of patrons from across the country -- Mr. Messier met Mr. Anderson. "I had the chance to talk to him over cocktails about the Whitney," Mr. Anderson recalled. "He has an appetite for contemporary photography and modern painting." 
The two saw each other again at last July's opening of the Whitney's show, sponsored by Vivendi, on Ludwig Mies van der Rohe, who designed the Seagram Building with Philip Johnson.
Leonard A. Lauder, the cosmetics magnate, who is chairman of the Whitney, and Mr. Messier then had lunch at the Four Seasons after being introduced by Edgar Bronfman Jr., who was chairman of Seagram and its Universal media unit before they were sold to Vivendi.
Mr. Messier joined the Whitney board last February.
The unspoken expectation is that Whitney board members will contribute or raise at least $100,000 a year. Some may contribute more -- by underwriting an exhibition, donating works of art or making capital gifts, for example -- or less, depending on their means. 
Already, Mr. Messier has committed his company to a six-figure sponsorship of the museum's fall gala on Oct. 21, Mr. Anderson said, at which the Whitney hopes to raise between $1 million and $1.5 million. "He jumped in feet first," Mr. Anderson said.
At the Philharmonic Zarin Mehta, the executive director, said that his old friend Marie-Josee Kravis, wife of the financier Henry Kravis, approached Mr. Messier about joining the Philharmonic board after learning that they were coming to New York. Mr. Messier referred her to his wife, a physics teacher, and she joined the board last December. "She's been very involved," Mr. Mehta said. "She comes to all the meetings." Board members are expected to donate upward of $50,000 a year, one Lincoln Center official said.
Robert M. Batscha, president of the Museum of Television and Radio, met Mr. Messier in 1999 at an annual meeting of the museum's International Museum Council in Paris. There, the two discussed the museum's hopes of creating a new media center, now being formed, as a forum for international business leaders in media and technology. 
"He was challenged and stimulated by the idea," Mr. Batscha said. Mr. Messier is now a vice chairman of the new media center's board of governors. 
At the Public Library, Elizabeth Rohatyn, a former chairwoman, suggested Mr. Messier as an award recipient, having known him through her husband, Felix Rohatyn, who served as ambassador to France during the Clinton Administration and had worked with Mr. Messier at the investment bank Lazard.
"When new top people come to New York, everybody wants them," she said. 
After the family moved to the city, she took Ms. Messier on a tour of two of the most impressive library facilities, the Library for the Performing Arts at Lincoln Center and the Science, Business and Industry Library on 34th Street. "She was very interested in both," Ms. Rohatyn said.
The award dinner for Mr. Messier will take place on June 10.
Samuel C. Butler, chairman of the New York Public Library, said the honoree and co-chairmen are each expected to give between $50,000 to $100,000. Companies then provide the names of their friends, clients and customers to invite. "We twist their arms" to get them to buy tables, Mr. Butler said, at a price of $10,000 to $50,000.
Will Mr. Messier's award lead to a board position? "That has not been discussed," Mr. Butler said. "That's down the road."
Joseph Volpe, general manager of the Metropolitan Opera, said there had been preliminary discussions about Mr. Messier joining the Met board. Mr. Volpe said he met Mr. Messier in Italy at a dinner after Luciano Pavarotti's 40th anniversary performance at the Modena opera house last spring. "He said he was coming to New York," Mr. Volpe said. "He's been busy. My hope is someday he'll become involved." (The Met's board members contribute on average about $250,000 a year.) 
After having lunch at Daniel restaurant with Mr. Messier two days after Sept. 11, Rabbi Arthur Schneier, president of the Appeal of Conscience Foundation, invited him to receive his organization's annual award, to be given this year on Oct 1. 
"What impressed me was he is a man of faith," Mr. Schneier said (though Mr. Messier told Vanity Fair recently that he goes to Mass just a few times a year). 
People who have been approached by the foundation as potential honorees said they were asked to guarantee $300,000 to $500,000 worth of tables. But Mr. Schneier said of honorees, "You cannot buy this award."
"Had he not shown a commitment to the objectives the Appeal of Conscience stands for he would not have been considered," Mr. Schneier continued. 
Earlier this month, Mr. Messier received the annual humanitarian award from the Simon Wiesenthal Center and Museum of Tolerance in Los Angeles. Rabbi Marvin Hier, the center's founder and dean, said Mr. Messier has committed himself to help establish a New York Tolerance Center, to open in January on East 42nd Street in the old Daily News building. 
And at the award dinner Mr. Messier announced that he would also try to build a European Museum of Mutual Respect in Paris, modeled largely on the Wiesenthal Center in Los Angeles.
Mr. Hier said there was no obligation that an honoree participate financially, but he acknowledged that, of course, they have an interest in filling tables. "Honorees are smart people," Mr. Hier said. "They want the dinner to be successful."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jean-Marie Messier, the chief executive of Vivendi Universal. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. E4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); CHARITIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (76%); CORPORATE GIVING (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); BOARD CHANGES (75%); SPONSORSHIP (74%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (72%); CHARITABLE GIVING (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (60%); RELIGION (52%) CULTURE; PHILANTHROPY 

COMPANY: VIVENDI (92%); AOL INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: VIVENDI UNIVERSAL SA 

TICKER: VIV (PAR) (92%); VIV (BIT) (92%); AOL (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (60%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (60%) SIC1623 WATER; 

PERSON: MESSIER, JEAN-MARIE; POGREBIN, ROBIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2002 



687 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
First Atlantic to Sell Berry Plastics Holding
First Atlantic Capital, a New York leveraged-buyout firm, is planning to announce that it has sold its biggest holding, Berry Plastics, for $837.5 million to the private equity arm of Goldman, Sachs.
 For First Atlantic Capital and its founder, a former McKinsey & Company partner, Roberto Buaron, the sale of Berry Plastics is the end of a decade of effort to turn around and build Berry Plastics' business. Page C2. 

Hugo Boss Says Profit Will Fall
Hugo Boss, the large German apparel company, said mistakes in the way it had accounted for inventory last year at its operations in the United States would cause 2002 profit to fall short of expectations. C4.

Fiat Nears Accord With Its Banks
Fiat appeared to be inching toward an accord with its major creditor banks tonight on an injection of fresh capital as part of a plan to curb its losses and reduce debt. C4.

Lukoil Trims $100 Million in Costs
Russia's largest oil producer, Lukoil, said it will have trimmed about $100 million in costs by the end of the second quarter, reaping the first rewards from a corporate overhaul. C4.

U.S. Markets Reopen
Financial markets in the United States are open today; they were closed yesterday in observance of Memorial Day. European share prices edged higher after a surprise jump in a key German confidence index. But Asian stock markets were mostly lower amid lackluster trading. C13.

Tariffs Protest Gains Support
The European Union is pressing ahead with efforts to overturn the Bush administration's tariffs on steel imports. Japan and South Korea have said that they will join in the complaints if the tariffs are not withdrawn, and Brazil, China, New Zealand, Switzerland and Norway have taken preliminary steps to follow suit. C4.

Europe Opens New Microsoft Inquiry
The European Commission said it had begun an inquiry into Microsoft because of concerns that its .NET Passport system violated privacy rules. C4.

Securities Firms Warned in Seoul
South Korea's highest-ranking financial regulator, in a veiled warning to securities firms, called for strict guidelines on "the professionalism" of investment advisers responsible for analyzing the merits of companies. C4.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 10,104.26 down 248.82Nasdaq composite -- 1,661.49 down 79.9010-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.14% down 0.12The euro -- $0.9207 down 0.0003The dollar -- 124.67 yen down 1.11 Graph: "TODAY" shows personal income since October. Chart: "Fewer Phone Workers"As the telecommunications slump continues, the industry's layoffs represent a growing portion of job cuts in the overall economy. Graph tracks Layoffs in the telecommunications industry since 2000. Employment at the telephone companies Employees in thousands AT&T2000: 136.82001: 117.8CHANGE: -13.9 SBC2000: 220.12001: 193.4CHANGE: -12.1 Qwest2000: 67.02001: 62.0CHANGE: -7.5 Verizon2000: 260.02001: 247.0CHANGE: -5.0 BellSouth2000: 92.22001: 87.9CHANGE: -4.7 WorldCom2000: 86.12001: 85.0CHANGE: -1.3 Sprint2000: 84.12001: 83.7CHANGE: -0.5 (Sources: Challenger, Gray & Christmas; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (86%); MERCHANT BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); CHRISTMAS (65%); EUROPEAN UNION (65%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (61%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MCKINSEY & CO INC (72%); OAO LUKOIL (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); LKOH (RTS) (56%); LKOD (LSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (67%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); NORWAY (79%); BRAZIL (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2002 



688 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: Amid Concern Over Ethics, Chretien Shifts His Cabinet 

BYLINE:  By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

DATELINE: TORONTO, May 27 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Jean Chretien has shaken up his cabinet for the second time in four months in an effort to deflect growing criticism of his government's ethical standards and challenges to his leadership of the governing Liberal Party.
 Mr. Chretien, who has governed since 1993, has been coy about whether he intends to retire or lead the Liberals for a fourth parliamentary election, presumably in 2004. 
 But first he may face opposition to his party leadership at a Liberal gathering next February from Finance Minister Paul Martin, who has won high marks for reviving the economy in recent months. 
Mr. Chretien was stung two weeks ago when the Liberals lost two supposedly safe parliamentary seats in by-elections, and opposition parties have exploited the growing public perception that cronyism has crept into government contract decisions.
Mr. Chretien is known for his stubborn loyalty to aides under attack, even when he is forced to take political heat to protect them. But he moved quickly on Sunday afternoon to fire Defense Minister Art Eggleton after Mr. Eggleton appeared on a news broadcast to defend his granting of a $36,500 contract to a former girlfriend to prepare a 14-page report on post-traumatic stress disorder in the Canadian military.
Mr. Eggleton, a former mayor of Toronto and longtime Liberal leader, had come under criticism in recent months in the House of Commons. Critics said he was slow to draw up plans to revamp the Canadian military and misled the Parliament in January about details surrounding the taking of prisoners by Canadian forces fighting in Afghanistan.
"Perhaps after almost nine years, people got a bit too comfortable," Mr. Chretien told reporters. "So that will teach a lesson to all of us." He added that he told Mr. Eggleton that the credibility of the government had been hurt by his favoring of the former girlfriend, Maggie Maier, an Ottawa consultant.
Mr. Eggleton has been replaced by John McCallum, a former bank executive with little experience in military affairs. Mr. McCallum will face the challenge of reviving a military that critics and Bush administration officials say is seriously under financed and ill equipped to face international terrorist threats.
Mr. Chretien also removed Public Works Minister Don Boudria after it was revealed that he had held a family reunion at a luxury cottage owned by the president of a Montreal public relations firm that does business with the government.
Mr. Boudria was shifted to a parliamentary leadership post, and Mr. Chretien said he had not technically broken any conflict of interest rules.
But Ralph Goodale, Mr. Boudria's successor at the Public Works Ministry, made it clear that he intended to operate under stricter standards. The ministry has been a virtual revolving door over the last year because of a string of allegations of cronyism and inefficiency.
"It's very important for all government departments to conduct themselves according to the standards that Canadians expect," Mr. Goodale said. "Today we turn the page."
Opposition politicians were quick to characterize the cabinet shifts as window dressing. "It's the rules of the game, not just the players, that need to change," said Alexa McDonough, leader of the left-of-center New Democratic Party.
Similar comments have come from the government's auditor-general, who recently criticized public use of Quebec advertising firms that favor the Liberals in that province.
Mr. Chretien and his party have several strong issues running in their favor against a divided opposition. After a brief recession late last year, unemployment has eased and the Canadian dollar has rebounded strongly. Separatist currents have ebbed in Quebec Province. And Mr. Chretien has managed to keep relations with the Bush administration on an even keel despite growing disputes over trade.
But political columnists and other analysts say the perception of ethical lapses could produce more political upheaval. 
"His government is unraveling," wrote Edward Greespon in a front-page column in today's Globe and Mail. "And it is doing so on the very issue that helped propel the government to office integrity." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (92%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); BYELECTIONS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); FAMILY (70%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (69%); TERRORISM (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); WAR & CONFLICT (65%); INFRASTRUCTURE (64%) ELECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ETHICS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: JEAN CHRETIEN (93%); PAUL MARTIN (59%) KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; CHRETIEN, JEAN (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (87%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (69%) ONTARIO, CANADA (87%); QUEBEC, CANADA (69%) CANADA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) CANADA

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2002 



689 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Where's The Boom? 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; Nicholas D. Kristof is on vacation.

 BODY:
Summertime, and the living is iffy. Double-dippers -- economists who believe that the economy will turn down again -- are still a small minority. But we're no longer hearing the triumphalist predictions of roaring recovery that were so prevalent back in March.
 The funny thing is that there hasn't been much negative economic news, just an absence of the good news that we were told to expect. Above all, business investment, whose plunge led us into this slump, has yet to show any serious signs of life. 
 How did so many business economists convince themselves, and each other, that a great boom was imminent? No doubt it was the result of wishful thinking on several levels: the investment community wants to sell stocks, and it also wants to believe that Republican administrations are good for business. But I suspect that a big factor in the premature declarations of victory was a false analogy between George W. Bush and Ronald Reagan, which led people to expect that 2002 would play like 1983.
 At a superficial level, there are strong parallels between the second year of the first Reagan administration and the first year of the second Bush administration. Both men pushed through large tax cuts and big military buildups; both inveighed against evil (empire, axis, whatever). And in 1982, as in 2001, the Fed reversed a previous policy of raising interest rates to fight inflation, cutting rates dramatically to fight recession instead. So why shouldn't it be morning in America all over again?
 Because the recessions were very different. In 1982 the economy was held back by high interest rates; it was ready to surge forward as soon as the restraints were released. In 2001 the economy slowed because businesses had overreached themselves; there are no obvious sources of pent-up demand.
 Perhaps the most striking difference between the Reagan recession and the Bush recession involves housing. In 1982, thanks to several years of very high interest rates, home building was moribund: real residential investment was at a 13-year low, more than 40 percent below its previous peak. So there was a lot of demand ready to roll as soon as interest rates fell. In fact, during the first year of the Reagan recovery residential investment rose 46 percent. Basically, it was a housing-led boom. 
 This time, residential investment kept rising through the recession, thanks to the Fed's interest rate cuts. It's hard to see a dramatic further increase; if anything, housing may be in a mild bubble.
 So what will lead us into a full-fledged recovery? Beats me.
 The truth is that instead of the vigorous recovery we were supposed to have by now, our economy seems to be in a state of suspense, waiting for something to happen. Optimists think that business investment will, finally, turn up; but businesses still have lots of excess capacity, and show little inclination to go on another investment spree. Pessimists think that consumers, faced with a still-worsening job picture, will finally stop spending. But consumers have stayed doggedly optimistic, as if they really believe in the T-shirt slogan: When the going gets tough, the tough go shopping.
 There is, however, one more wild card, which is also a key contrast with the Reagan years: the attitude of foreign investors. During the Reagan recovery overseas investors, who had previously been down on America, flocked in. This time we start from a very different position. Foreigners have been wildly enthusiastic about America for years -- an attitude we have come to count on, because we need $1.2 billion in capital inflows every day to cover our foreign-trade deficit. What happens as they lose their enthusiasm?
 One of the largely unreported stories of the last few months -- in the U.S. media, anyway -- is the precipitous decline of foreign confidence in American leadership and institutions. Enron, aggressive accounting, budget deficits, steel tariffs, the farm bill, F.B.I. bungling -- all of it adds up, in European minds in particular, to what Barton Biggs of Morgan Stanley calls a "fall from grace." Foreign purchases of U.S. stocks, foreign acquisitions of U.S. companies, are way off.
 I don't want to sound like a doomsayer here. But one thing is clear: Those confident declarations, several months ago, that our troubles were over look pretty foolish now. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (62%); PAUL KRUGMAN (58%) KRUGMAN, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2002 



690 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 910 words

PERSON: Antonia Pantoja 

HEADLINE: Antonia Pantoja, Champion Of Bilingualism, Dies at 80 

BYLINE:  By STUART LAVIETES 

 BODY:
Antonia Pantoja, an advocate for New Yorkers of Puerto Rican origin whose educational organization Aspira won a landmark lawsuit in the 70's that brought bilingual education to New York City public schools, died on Friday at Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. She was 80.
 The cause was cancer, said her partner, Dr. Wilhelmina Perry. 
 Dr. Pantoja, who received the Presidential Medal of Freedom from President Bill Clinton in 1996 for her efforts to provide educational and economic opportunities for Puerto Ricans, was born in poverty in San Juan, P.R., in 1922. Wealthy neighbors helped her attend the University of Puerto Rico, where she earned a teaching certificate in 1942. She taught in a rural school for two years, then, as a member of the first wave of impoverished emigrants from the island, she moved to New York City.
At first finding wartime factory work as a welder, she won a scholarship to Hunter College, graduating with a bachelor's in sociology in 1952. She earned a master's degree from Columbia University's New York School of Social Work in 1954.
Upon graduation, Dr. Pantoja focused her attention on the grinding poverty of Puerto Ricans in New York. At the time, half the Puerto Rican families lived below the poverty line; 70 percent of those who were employed worked in the lowest-paying jobs; 50 percent of those above the age of 25 had less than an eighth-grade education; and 40 percent lived in substandard housing.
To begin addressing these problems, Dr. Pantoja founded the Puerto Rican Forum in 1957 to serve as an incubator for organizations and programs promoting economic self-sufficiency. The nonprofit organization is now known as the National Puerto Rican Forum.
Dr. Pantoja directed most of her energies, however, to improving the performance in New York schools of Puerto Rican children, children of Spanish speakers who were taught only in English. By 1961, two out of three eighth graders had fallen more than three years behind in reading; by 1963, when there were 179,000 Puerto Rican public school students, only 331 received high school academic diplomas, and only 28 went on to college. 
In response, in 1961, Dr. Pantoja established Aspira, a nonprofit organization encouraging educational attainment, self-esteem, cultural awareness and leadership development. 
Operating through clubs in city schools, Aspira used rituals and symbols to appeal to students tempted by gang culture. It had a solemn induction ceremony, based on a Taino Indian ritual, in which "aspirantes" held candles and pledged to pursue educational excellence and to dedicate their success to their community. Its symbol was the pitirre, a small tropical bird known for its agility and speed. The group taught the "Aspira process" of awareness, analysis and action.
Aspira now has offices in six states and Puerto Rico, and provides approximately 50,000 Latino students with career and college counseling, financial aid and other assistance. The program's graduates include Fernando Ferrer, the former Bronx borough president and 2001 mayoral candidate, and Anthony D. Romero, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union.
As politics changed in the United States, especially with President Lyndon B. Johnson's War on Poverty, Dr. Pantoja shifted her emphasis from self-help programs to reform of the educational system.
In 1964, she helped draw up a request by the Puerto Rican Forum for $12.5 million from the city's antipoverty council to establish bilingual prekindergarten classes, after-school programs for struggling students, parental guidance and adult education courses, and other programs.
In 1967, she served on a committee, convened by Mayor John V. Lindsay, that recommended the decentralization of the school system. That summer, after the riots that occurred in many American cities, she attended the New York constitutional convention in Albany, where she pressed for the state to assume constitutional responsibility for free higher education, adult education and "compensatory education" for the disadvantaged.
In 1972, frustrated by what Dr. Pantoja saw as the continuing failure of city schools to educate Puerto Rican students -- who still had a graduation rate of only 30 percent -- Aspira filed a civil rights suit in federal court demanding that New York City provide classroom instruction in Spanish for struggling students. The suit resulted in a 1974 ruling ordering the city to establish bilingual classes and English as a second language classes for Latino students whose English skills were in the lowest fifth. 
Dr. Pantoja was also active in higher education. In 1970, she established the Universidad Boricua and the Puerto Rican Research and Resource Center in Washington, becoming its chancellor in 1973, the same year that she earned a Ph.D. from Union Graduate School in Ohio. She joined the faculty of San Diego State University's School of Social Work in 1978, and later founded the Graduate School for Community Development.
After 1984, Dr. Pantoja devoted much of her time to work in Puerto Rico, establishing Producir, an organization that provides economic assistance to small businesses in poor rural areas, and Provivienda, which works to develop housing.
She is survived by her partner, Dr. Perry; her brother, Esteban Lopez; and her sister, Haydee Lopez. 
Her autobiography, "Memoir of a Visionary," is being published this month by Arte Publico Press. She was also working on a history of Aspira. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Antonia Pantoja. (Ed Bagwell/News Voice International, 1968) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); MULTILINGUALISM (90%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (90%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); RURAL SCHOOLS (77%); HOSPICE (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); FAMILY (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (73%); CANCER (72%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (72%); SOCIOLOGY (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%); GANGS (50%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%)

BILL CLINTON (72%) PANTOJA, ANTONIA; LAVIETES, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); PUERTO RICO (95%)

CATEGORY: Education and Schools 

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2002 



691 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: When a Rock Star Goes Political 

BYLINE:  By Ann Powers; Ann Powers, a former music critic for The Times, is a senior curator at Experience Music Project, an interactive music museum.

DATELINE: SEATTLE 

 BODY:
Bono, the Irish rock star, may look silly running around Africa with Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill, wearing those blue Romeo Gigli shades and black Prada boots, acting as if he deserved to be taken seriously. But Bono, in the midst of his fact-finding tour of Africa, has garnered good reviews for his lobbying efforts for world debt relief.
 Still, beneath that praise you can hear the surprise about how well educated he is about his cause; in the eyes of the establishment he remains a charmingly inappropriate ambassador. Despite evidence that artists can affect public policy on serious matters, there's still the lingering sense -- if not among politicians, then among media commentators -- that celebrities make gestures toward social change while real power is retained by the grownups in corporate boardrooms and government. 
 Of course Bono plays up the incongruity of his growing political role, joking about the soup stains on his unworn tie. But the idea that an artist like Bono would be an effective diplomat is far from odd. Bono has been involved in fighting African poverty for almost 20 years, since he first spent six weeks volunteering in an Ethiopian refugee camp. His political work has made him an important and vocal advocate for aid for developing nations. His work with Amnesty International, Greenpeace and antinuclear efforts in Great Britain have been substantial.
But he's not alone; he follows a long line of pop artists who have left a mark on politics. Pop artists like Bob Geldof, the organizer of the 1985 Live Aid concert for famine relief and a close Bono adviser, and Willie Nelson and the other organizers of Farm Aid have been raising money for their causes for years.
In America, entertainment and political action have never been far apart. Dr. Martin Luther King turned to an actor and singer, Harry Belafonte, to help lead landmark protests including the 1963 march on Washington. Since the 1960's, celebrity-led charities and causes have been standard forms of activism. The difference now is that celebrities like Bono are less likely to be protesting in the street and more likely to be testifying to big, rapt audiences in Congress -- a sign that activism by popular artists is taken more seriously now than ever.
Popular music can still be a forum for rebellion -- don't forget Eminem -- but older artists especially are developing more sophisticated approaches to social change. In 1994, it seemed strange that members of Pearl Jam took their struggle against Ticketmaster to the halls of Congress. More recently, Don Henley and Alanis Morissette have been prominent figures there, lobbying for artists' interests and rights on the Web. Of course, these musicians don't entirely abandon their rock 'n' roll attitudes when they talk to politicians; after all, it's fame that got them in the door. But now being cool means being able to talk policy and defy condescending expectations.
With a keen political sense, Bono is taking activism to a new place. Beyond his interest in alleviating third world poverty is perhaps another agenda: the establishment of a larger social role for popular artists. His message carries with it a variation on rock-star excess; instead of being the most drugged-out or sexed-up among us, he's the most idealistic. Rock stars are like the tricksters in mythology, born to confound categories. Bono can use celebrity to do what political figures, whether senators or street activists, can't easily do: retain a radical edge while making alliances with a conservative base.
This approach isn't surprising for the leader of a band with roots in progressive Christian activism, always with a strong dose of expressive faith. U2's shows are still the most theatrically transcendent performances on the arena-rock circuit. The actual impact of Bono's leap into global politics remains to be seen. In any case, he is taking on the role of rock star as policy wonk at the very moment when the world is ready to believe in it.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Robert Neubecker) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POP & ROCK (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); MUSIC (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FAMINE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); LOBBYING (76%); TRENDS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (74%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); REFUGEES (72%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; FOREIGN AID; MUSIC 

COMPANY: TICKETMASTER ENTERTAINMENT INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: GREENPEACE INTERNATIONAL (54%); AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: BONO (91%) POWERS, ANN; BONO (MUSICIAN); O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC); GELDOF, BOB; NELSON, WILLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2002 



692 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL; 
MEMO PAD

BYLINE:  By JOE SHARKEY 

 BODY:
Rail Initiatives Are Moving Along
The automobile and airline industries, both heavily subsidized by taxpayers, have "brainwashed" business travelers into supposing that viable intercity passenger rail service is an unlikely prospect in the United States, argues William C. Vantuono, the editor of Railway Age magazine. 
 Nevertheless, new rail initiatives, bolstered by the sharp increases in business-travel ridership on Amtrak's Northeast Corridor and on other Amtrak rail corridors in Southern California and the Pacific Northwest, are moving along. 
 One of the most important, Mr. Vantuono says, is the fledgling Midwest Regional Rail Initiative, a projected $4.1 billion system to develop high-speed corridors linking Chicago, Detroit, St. Louis, Milwaukee and other cities in nine Midwest states. Preliminary work, including some track upgrading for higher speed trains, is under way, though public-private financing formulas and multistate coordination difficulties remain big hurdles. 
Meanwhile, the Federal Railroad Administration on Friday announced a $3 million grant to the Florida High-Speed Rail Authority for studies on a high-speed rail link from Orlando to Miami.

Business Travel Booming in China
Business travel is booming in China, says American Express, which is moving aggressively there for market share. With double-digit annual growth predicted in the $4.3 billion a year business-travel market, American Express last week officially opened its joint venture in Beijing with China International Travel Service, a big leisure-travel management company. The venture will handle business travel bookings and services within China for domestic and foreign companies.
Because those business travelers need a place to stay, hotel companies are suddenly very interested in China as well. "There's a growing middle class in China, and we're seeing more and more business travel. Who would have guessed that 10 years ago?" said J. W. Marriott Jr., the chairman and chief executive of Marriott International, which now has 35 hotels in China, where it is focusing on expanding its Courtyard brand.

Teaming Up For Intelligence
Sam Spade meets Bill Gates?
Jules B. Kroll, founder and executive chairman of Kroll, the hard-charging and sometimes turbulent corporate security company, has been referred to in the past as Wall Street's top gumshoe. Now Kroll is affiliating one of its businesses with iJet Travel Intelligence, the Web and wireless travel intelligence provider for corporate travelers. 
Under a strategic partnership to be announced today, the two companies will leverage their technological and analytical operations to provide travel advisories to a combined international customer base of 170 clients.

'Cheap' Seats On the Concorde
Cheap Concorde seats? Well, by comparison with the regular fare, they're relatively cheap.
For selected travel days through Aug. 31, with a two-week advance purchase and other restrictions, says British Airways, you can fly the supersonic Concorde New York-London round trip for $6,999. That's 45 percent off the regular price.
Other options: for $3,999 you can fly the Concorde to London and make the return trip in premier economy class on another British Airways flight. Add another $1,000, and you return in Club World, the business-class cabin with the fold-down beds. For $1,000 more ($5,999), you come back in first class. 
The subsonic return-trip part of the package includes New York and 20 other cities in the United States where British Airways flies.
The Concorde flies "11 miles above the earth's surface, at 1,350 miles per hour," noted Elizabeth Weisser, the airline's vice president for marketing.
For those not in that much of a hurry, however, subsonic New York-London round-trip economy-class fares are still available for $400 to $500 on many airlines this summer. On Orbitz the other day, the cheapest was a United Airlines advance-purchase fare of $395. The flight over takes the standard 7 subsonic hours, rather than the Concorde's 3 hours and 20 minutes. And you won't eat nearly as well. JOE SHARKEY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (91%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (91%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (91%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRLINES (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TRAINS (79%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES (74%); LEISURE TRAVEL (73%); MARKET SHARE (71%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); HOTEL CHAINS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); JOINT VENTURES (65%) RAILROADS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; SUPERSONIC TRANSPORT (SST); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (82%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (58%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (57%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION (83%) AMTRAK (NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP); RAILWAY AGE (MAGAZINE); FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION; AMERICAN EXPRESS CO; CHINA INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL SERVICE; IJET TRAVEL INTELLIGENCE INC; BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC; KROLL INC 

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (82%); AXP (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (82%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (82%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (57%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (77%); J WILLARD MARRIOTT JR (50%) SHARKEY, JOE; VANTUONO, WILLIAM C 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (70%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) MIDWEST USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (87%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%) NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); CALIFORNIA; PACIFIC NORTHWESTERN STATES (US); MIDWESTERN STATES (US); CHICAGO (ILL); DETROIT (MICH); ST LOUIS (MO); MILWAUKEE (WIS); FLORIDA; ORLANDO (FLA); MIAMI (FLA); CHINA; BEIJING (CHINA)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2002 



693 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 931 words

PERSON: Sayu Bhojwani 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
A Confident Tone, and a New Business Suit

BYLINE:  By LYNDA RICHARDSON 

 BODY:
IF anyone knows about the immigrant world, it is Sayu Bhojwani, the founder and former executive director of South Asian Youth Action, a nonprofit group that helps build leadership skills in hundreds of teenagers, many of them struggling in school.
 But Ms. Bhojwani's knowledge about the inner workings of New York City government is another matter altogether, and she is the first to admit this. As Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's new commissioner of immigrant affairs, there has been a big learning curve for her. For one thing, she has had to do some shopping. 
 A month into the job, Ms. Bhojwani, 34, is adjusting to business suits instead of the jeans that she used to wear to work out of a church basement in Elmhurst, Queens, and most recently as a fellow at Columbia University's Teachers College, where she had been studying toward a doctorate in education. (She decided she did not like being a student.)
"I think my naivete about city government is actually an asset," Ms. Bhojwani said while sitting in her sparsely decorated office on Gold Street near City Hall on a recent morning. "I'm not coming in frustrated and cynical, but I'm coming in with a fresh eye, an optimism that things can change."
Ms. Bhojwani is known as even-tempered and good at building coalitions. She speaks in a confident, forceful tone. You sense a certain flair for diplomacy. It will come in handy. Her job is to work with city agencies so that immigrants are not prevented from getting services by a lack of sensitivity to cultural and language differences.
So, does she have the political juice to tackle issues like racial profiling or discrimination against Muslims in a post-Sept. 11 climate that has many immigrants fearful?
Well, not exactly. She has no power to enact specific changes. She cannot even get you a green card, though she can make referrals. She admitted it was a a bit of an awkward situation.
"I do feel a certain amount of pressure from people," she said. "There's a perception of power you don't really have."
Ms. Bhojwani has a staff of five. She has no direct budget in an agency that is part of the mayor's office. It has existed in some form since the mid-1980's, becoming part of the City Charter in last November's general election. Mr. Bloomberg appointed Ms. Bhojwani as the agency's first commissioner.
"This office is not going to do anything on its own, but there's every indication from City Hall that they would like to see this office have substance," she said.
In any case, Ms. Bhojwani is intent on not being a figurehead. "I'm young, I'm Indian and I'm the commissioner," she said, "but I'm not interested in only delivering proclamations."
She does have the power of persuasion. "We are concerned about people being able to access services: to report fires, to go to hospitals, to walk on the streets," she said. "And to the extent that anything the city is doing that might instill that fear, it's important for our office to be a part of the dialogue."
In a city that is nearly 36 percent foreign-born, immigrant-rights advocates are heartened by Ms. Bhojwani's presence in government but think she has her work cut out for her.
"Demographics have outpaced the understanding of most people in government by 10 to 15 years," said Margie McHugh, executive director of the New York Immigration Coalition. "And here she has to be the lone voice trying to get the city to update its thinking and to really, truly, come to understand who actually lives here and what that means for every area in city government."
IF anything, though, Ms. Bhojwani is willful.
She has led quite a different life than what her parents once imagined for her: marrying her off to a nice businessman with Sindhi Hindu background like their own. Her parents are prosperous store owners in Belize, where she was raised. Her family left India when she was 3 because of economic opportunities in that Central American country.
Ms. Bhojwani, who also speaks Spanish, was the first in her family to attend college. She wanted to be an English teacher. But she did not go alone when she went to the University of Miami in 1984. Her mother temporarily relocated there. A brother moved in. Her grandmother settled in, too. She moved to New York in 1987 to attend graduate school at Teachers College.
She is reticent about discussing her private life. She has been divorced for four years. She met her ex-husband at age 21 when they were editors at a literary agency. "We grew apart," she said simply. Ms. Bhojwani, who lives in Astoria, Queens, has been seeing a management consultant.
In many ways, Ms. Bhojwani's idea to create a safe haven for South Asian youths grew out of her own experience. For many years, she says, her parents had one foot in India and the other in Belize. After moving to the United States when she was 17, she said, "I didn't get engaged in the political process, and I didn't feel like I belonged."
Ms. Bhojwani, who became a United States citizen in December 2000, founded South Asian Youth Action in 1996. It initially drew teenagers wanting to shoot hoops in the church gym, but flourished through programs in leadership, the arts and career preparation. When she left last August to return to Columbia for a fellowship, the group had an annual budget of $400,000 and a staff of 11. It served about 350 teenagers.
As a commissioner, she said, she will have to figure out a new measure of success. But she sees progress in her personal journey already. "I came to this country as an immigrant," she said, "and now I'm representing the issues of immigrants in city government."

GRAPHIC: Photo: SAYU BHOJWANI (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (89%); RACE & RACISM (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); DISCRIMINATION (73%); RACIAL PROFILING (73%); ELECTIONS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); RELIGION (69%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%) OFFICE OF IMMIGRANT AFFAIRS (NYC) 

MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%) RICHARDSON, LYNDA; BHOJWANI, SAYU V 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

CATEGORY: Non-Profit Organizations 

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2002 



694 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-11

U.S. Believes Al Qaeda Is Operating in Pakistan
Virtually the entire senior leadership of Al Qaeda and the Taliban have been driven out of eastern Afghanistan and are now operating in the anarchic tribal areas of western Pakistan, the commander of American-led forces in Afghanistan said. Maj. Gen. Franklin L. Hagenbeck also said that intelligence reports indicated that they were plotting terrorist attacks to disrupt the selection of a new national government in Kabul next month. A1

Musharraf Addresses Nation
President Pervez Musharraf said in an address to his nation that Pakistan did not want a conflict with India, but that if it came to war between the nuclear-armed rivals he would "respond with full might." He urged India to take steps to ease tensions, and he laid full blame with India for the standoff between the two countries. A1

Indian officials reacted angrily to General Musharraf's speech. Members of the cabinet decided India would not comment officially until today, but senior officials said they found the Pakistani president hostile, provocative and defiant. A4

Suicide Bomber Kills 2
A Palestinian suicide bomber blew himself up at an outdoor cafe in a shopping center in Petah Tikva, Israel, near Tel Aviv, killing a baby girl and her grandmother and injuring more than 40 other people. Al-Aksa Martyrs Brigades, a militant group linked to Yasir Arafat's Fatah movement, claimed responsibility for the bombing. A1

Israeli forces were back in Bethlehem less than three weeks after the army ended a 39-day operation there. Israeli officers said that they expected to remain for some time, pursuing wanted men who had escaped the previous dragnet. A6

Bush Speaks at Normandy
President Bush marked the first Memorial Day since the Sept. 11 attacks and the war in Afghanistan with a somber speech at the seaside cemetery above Omaha Beach, where white marble markers recall what Mr. Bush called "the scale and heroism and sacrifice of the young" who gave their lives here during World War II. A10

Colombian Leader Softens Tone
President-elect Alvaro Uribe Velez held out the possibility of negotiating with guerrilla commanders of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, the country's largest and most powerful guerrilla organization, under United Nations mediation. A3

Another Shake-Up in Canada
Prime Minister Jean Chretien, in an effort to deflect growing criticism of his government's ethical standards and challenges to his leadership, fired Defense Minister Art Eggleton, who had publicly defended his granting of a $36,500 contract to a former girlfriend. A10

World Briefing A8

NATIONAL A12-17

Nurses Are the Objects Of Aggressive Recruiting
Hospitals nationwide have 126,000 nursing vacancies, 12 percent of capacity, according to the American Hospital Association. Health industry experts predict the number could triple over the next decade, and that has set off a recruiting frenzy. A1

Identity Theft
Two men are charged with finding houses owned by elderly Detroiters, assuming their identities and stripping the equity out of the houses. The tactic is just one of the more innovative types of identity theft that officials have encountered. A12

More Bodies Recovered
Workers retrieved four more bodies of people killed Sunday when a barge slammed into a bridge over the Arkansas River downstream from Webbers Falls, Okla. Up to 12 people were believed to have been killed in the accident, and seven bodies in all have now been recovered. A12

Capitol Construction
Construction is about to begin on a $335 million underground visitors complex at the Capitol in Washington. Planners say the project will enhance security at the Capitol and better the experience of tourists. But some people are alarmed at the disruption the project will cause. The idea of building the complex gained momentum after a gunman with a history of mental illness killed two police officers stationed near a public entrance to the Capitol in July 1998. A17

Details About Mars
Scientists this week are publishing more details about the discovery in March of what could be the frozen remains of large oceans on Mars. The finding, by NASA's Mars Odyssey spacecraft, lends support to theories that early in its history Mars was wet and warm -- and possibly amenable to life. A14

Girl's Case Prompts Report
Child-welfare officials agreed to enact dozens of recommendations made by a special panel that examined the case of a 5-year-old Florida girl whose disappearance was not noticed by the authorities for more than a year. The report will be given to Gov. Jeb Bush tomorrow. A17

Foster Care Shortage
Outdated services, ineffective recruiting methods, and poor or nonexistent support programs for overextended parents have led to a shortage of families willing to provide foster care. This occurs as the number of children requiring foster care grows. A17

Complaints Against Priests
The Louisville, Ky., area has been surprised to see more than 90 men bring complaints against 14 priests, a deacon and a lay parochial school teacher. The complaints cover a 25-year period that crested in the mid-1980's. A15

Fire Endangers Homes
A wildfire in the Coronado National Forest northeast of Tucson injured a firefighter and threatened 175 houses. About 100 people were evacuated as high winds hampered firefighting. A15

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Bloomberg's Pet Agency Reflects His Background
The Department of Information Technology and Telecommunications, which is earmarked to receive a $7.7 million increase next year, is one of the few city agencies that has avoided Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's budget cuts. The decision reflects the background of a mayor who made his fortune revolutionizing information technology for Wall Street professionals. B1

Eateries Wait for Rebound
New York restaurants outside Lower Manhattan are among those suffering the most from the recession and from Sept. 11. B1

SCIENCE TIMES F1-10

Cooking and Evolution
A Harvard anthropology professor proposes that the use of fire to cook food could date back almost 2 million years. He also suggests that the capacity to cook food could explain various hominid features, including a large brain and small teeth. F1

Health & Fitness F5

FASHION B8

SPORTS D1-8

Sampras Loses in France
Pete Sampras, who has won a record 13 Grand Slam tournaments, lost in the first round of the French Open. The tournament, played on clay in Paris, is the only one of the four majors that he has not won. D1

ARTS E1-10

OBITUARIES B6-7

Genichi Kawakami
Creator of the Yamaha empire, who was proponent of the delicate notes of the piano and the earsplitting roar of the motorcycle, he was 90. B6

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Steel Tariffs Challenged
The European Union has taken a significant step in the long process of challenging the Bush administration's protective tariffs on steel imports. Some 15 European Union nations are the first of the World Trade Organization's 144 members to have their tariff complaints formally considered by the organization. C4

Discrepancies Hurt Hugo Boss
Hugo Boss, the German apparel company, said that mistakes in the way it had accounted for its United States inventory last year would cause 2002 profits to fall short of expectations. The news sent Hugo Boss shares tumbling for the second day in Frankfurt. C4

Rising Shares in Europe
European share prices edged higher after a surprise jump in a German confidence index indicated a strengthening recovery in Europe's largest economy. The absence of direction from the United States markets, closed for Memorial Day, left European markets to focus on themselves. C13

The Benefits of Cutting Costs
Russia's largest oil producer, Lukoil, said it will have trimmed about $100 million in costs by the end of the second quarter, reaping the first rewards from a corporate overhaul. C4

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Paralysis in health care; an iron fist in war-weary Colombia; Connecticut's budget antics; Steven R. Weisman on walls.

Columns: Paul Krugman.

Crossword B4
TV Listings E9
Public Lives B2
Weather A16

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (90%); TALIBAN (90%); TERRORISM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); AL FATAH (76%); WORLD WAR II (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (60%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (50%); ETHICS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (93%); AL-AQSA MARTYRS BRIGADES (54%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); ALVARO URIBE (55%); JEAN CHRETIEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); INDIA (94%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2002 



695 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 174 words

HEADLINE: Visions of Downtown 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Marginal Role for Architecture at Ground Zero," by Herbert Muschamp (Arts pages, May 23), would seemingly have us renounce rational urban planning in favor of an unrealistic approach to city design in which an architecture of narcissism trumps all other considerations of program, use, context and public interest.
 The firm Beyer Blinder Belle has been properly charged with defining a plan that incorporates complex and often contradictory considerations of memorialization, underground and surface transportation, flexibility for yet-to-be-determined users and tenants, and its relationship to the waterfront, the fabric of Lower Manhattan and the skyline of the city. 
 The firm has enough on its plate without demands for a premature architectural solution bearing no resemblance to reality -- a bold risk, perhaps, but with no potential for return, a true waste of public time and money.

ERNEST W. HUTTON JR.
New York, May 23, 2002

The writer, an urban designer, is chairman of the communications committee, New York New Visions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); CITY LIFE (88%); LAND USE PLANNING (88%); HIJACKING (85%); TERRORISM (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; TERRORISM; HIJACKING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); ARCHITECTURE 

COMPANY: BEYER BLINDER BELLE (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BEYER BLINDER BELLE 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (57%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: HUTTON, ERNEST W JR; MUSCHAMP, HERBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2002 



696 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES; 
Despite All, Vietnam Still Likes Americans

BYLINE:  By ROBERT MANN; Robert Mann is the author of "A Grand Delusion: America's Descent Into Vietnam."

 BODY:
VIETNAM, NOW
A Reporter Returns
By David Lamb
Illustrated. 274 pages. PublicAffairs. $26.
Three million Vietnamese died in the Vietnam War.
 It is that remarkable statistic, cited by David Lamb in his book "Vietnam, Now: A Reporter Returns," that puts the American role in Vietnam into a much needed perspective. 
 Another way to consider Vietnam's war dead: had the United States suffered the same percentage of losses in this period, American deaths would have been 13 million, not 58,000.
Despite Vietnam's staggering losses, Mr. Lamb depicts a nation of courageous, forgiving people largely dedicated to the work of renewal and reconciliation.
Mr. Lamb was the only American newspaper correspondent from the war to live in peacetime Hanoi. He reported for United Press International in the late 1960's and returned to Vietnam in 1997 to create a Southeast Asia bureau for The Los Angeles Times. He has since returned to the United States and continues to report for that newspaper.
Mr. Lamb's engaging book is, in equal parts, a travelogue, a political, cultural and economic analysis and a collection of poignant profiles of average Vietnamese citizens who, despite the devastation visited upon their country by the United States, simply love Americans.
In describing the country that has transformed itself in the quarter century since his first departure, Mr. Lamb interprets the evolving state of United States-Vietnamese relations, the declining influence of the Communist Party, the country's growing appreciation of capitalism, the enormous impact of the Viet Kieu, or overseas Vietnamese, and the still strong political and social divisions between the people of northern and southern Vietnam.
At the center of this story are the indomitable Vietnamese people, whom Mr. Lamb rightly admires for their cheerful perseverance. In fact, the people he describes are so industrious, so optimistic, so indefatigable that one is left with the feeling that they were destined to prevail over the United States simply because they cannot tolerate the notion of defeat.
Mr. Lamb presents a complex nation nearly destroyed by war but whose dauntless citizens find little time for wallowing in self-pity or bitterness. Almost every male over 45 that he encountered in Hanoi had been a soldier during the war, and most recounted "fearful tales of battles and bombings along the Ho Chi Minh Trail." However, he marvels that "no one gave the vaguest hint of considering me or the United States an adversary."
Indeed, the Vietnamese people Mr. Lamb encountered not only loved Americans but had also "put the war behind them in a way that many Americans hadn't."
The reasons? Mr. Lamb speculates that despite millions of casualties, "the Vietnamese of the North weren't haunted by the war because they had won it."
And he notes that as Vietnam's economy has gradually improved, "the lingering animosity toward the United States faded." He adds, "It was replaced by a sense of relief that life was on the mend. Hating took energy -- energy the Vietnamese wanted to expend in more productive pursuits."
Dr. Nguyen Xuan Nghien, the director of an orthopedic clinic at Hanoi's largest hospital and a Communist Party member, gives Mr. Lamb a telling example of Vietnamese affection for Americans. Demonstrating an impressive (if not entirely accurate) understanding of the complexity of American politics during the war, Dr. Nghien told Mr. Lamb: "It was the American leaders who set out to destroy us, not the people." The American people, he said, had opposed the war. "They were of service to Vietnam. . . . Your people were an important force in stopping the war. So were the reporters. They were the social conscience of a country."
Mr. Lamb doesn't dispute Dr. Nghien's analysis, but he notes the paradox involved in such a statement by a professed Communist. "What Dr. Nghien so admired in the United States -- the right to dissent, to freely challenge the policy of elected leaders -- was precisely what his own government denied him," Mr. Lamb writes.
It is this perplexing dichotomy -- Vietnam's instinctive embrace of capitalism and Western democracy mixed with toleration of moderately repressive Communism -- that Mr. Lamb explains so skillfully.
Vietnam is one of the world's poorest countries. Some farm families earn only $5 a month. The per capita income is $1 a day, and skilled professionals do not earn much more.
But a capitalist spirit thrives throughout the country, especially in Ho Chi Minh City (formerly Saigon), a vibrant and flashy metropolis of entrepreneurs that, to Mr. Lamb, best captures the country's growing embrace of free enterprise.
"The Old Guard Communist leadership of the North can bury its head in the sands of Marxist economic theory all it wants," Mr. Lamb observes, "but its constituency wants the model that Saigon symbolized -- an economy that rewards initiative, encourages private enterprise, values liberal ideas and frees itself from rigid government control."
Another dichotomy Mr. Lamb explores is the ubiquity of the Communist Party and its simultaneous irrelevance to most Vietnamese. Despite its sometimes lethargic efforts to limit free speech, the Vietnam Mr. Lamb describes is a relatively open society -- a smaller version of free-market China without the political and social repression.
As hard as the Communist leaders might try, however, Mr. Lamb believes that they cannot control what average Vietnamese citizens learn about the world, and they have essentially quit trying. Mr. Lamb observes that party leaders "have given up their attempt to stamp out Internet cafes, and scores of shops in the cities are jammed with young Vietnamese hunched over computers, the Web sites of the world at their fingertips."
The party does try to control the economy, Mr. Lamb says, but has failed to steer Vietnam into the prosperity that so many had expected in the early 1990's. "Vietnam was like a racehorse," he writes, "whose jockey kept yanking on the reins rather than giving the animal its head to find full stride."
Despite his concerns, Mr. Lamb left Hanoi in the spring of 2001 full of optimism about the country's potential. The nation, he concludes, "is inspiring because a proud, industrious people endured terrible times, both during and after the war, and were strong enough to bury the past, to capitalize on the peace and to reach out to people like me who were once their enemy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Lamb (Sandy Northrop/PublicAffairs) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); BOMBINGS (73%); LITERATURE (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (69%); UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%)

PERSON: MANN, ROBERT; LAMB, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (96%); VIETNAM (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%)

TITLE: VIETNAM NOW, A REPORTER RETURNS (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2002 



697 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: City College Film Festival Peers Inside Many Cultures 

BYLINE:  By DINITIA SMITH 

 BODY:
There will be no films here about rich-kid romantic angst, no lighthearted comedies, no expensive visual pyrotechnics and production values.
 These are the films of the City College graduate program in media arts production. And just like the program's students, they are very different from the film school norm. Ten of the movies will be shown today and tomorrow in the Cityvisions Film Festival at the Clearview 59th Street Cinema, on 59th Street between Second and Third Avenues in Manhattan. 
 Many of the films, which are mostly about a half-hour long, derive from the immigrant experiences of the filmmakers. In "Sensitive," by Gustavo Mercado, a 35-year-old student born in Uruguay, a woman working in an immigration lawyer's office in Jackson Heights, Queens, is besieged by desperate people seeking visas. The woman takes pity on a small Latino boy handing out flyers on the street during school hours. Then she inadvertently brings about the arrest and deportation of the boy's mother, who lacks proper immigration papers. 
"I Am," by Yuka Okura, 28, a Japanese student, has the austere elegance of an Ozu movie. In it a young Japanese-American couple live out their marriage in parallel silence while the wife obediently attends to her husband's needs. One day she quietly rebels and forces him to take notice.
"These are stories that want to come out," said David Davidson, who runs the master's program and directed and produced "Into the Light: The Birth of the American Film Industry," an Emmy Award-winning 1995 film. "Most of the film industry is so derivative," he said. "We see the same things again and again. This program makes the tools of storytelling available to so many people who would normally be denied them because of the expense." 
The City College media arts production program could be one of New York's best-kept secrets. Tuition for the two-year master's program is $2,175 a semester for New York State residents and $3,800 for those who live elsewhere. In contrast, tuition in the graduate program of the Tisch School of the Arts at New York University, which has one of the nation's most highly praised film programs, is at least six times as much: $14,621 a semester for a three-year program. At both institutions, students must also put up some of their own money for production expenses.
Amo (he uses only one name), 32, a Nigerian-born student in the City College program who works by day as an admissions counselor for the college, had to come up with $5,000 for equipment and food for his film crew. Although the college provides equipment, Amo said he wanted to buy his own because he also earns money producing wedding videos. His film "Kemi" is a drama about a young Nigerian woman from a small village who is taken to an American suburb as a baby sitter for the child of an African man and his African-American wife. 
The man rapes the girl, and she is destroyed. She runs away, but is forced to return. Amo said it was not an uncommon situation among young African women who come to the United States to work. "Men sleep with the baby sitters," he said. "She's vulnerable. She has no place to go and nobody to talk to." 
The media arts production program has its genesis in City College's original film studies department, one of the first such departments in the United States, and in the college's history as a haven for refugees. It can be traced to 1941, when the experimental filmmaker Hans Richter, who had fled Hitler's Germany, became director of the college's Institute of Film Techniques.
City College says the institute was the first comprehensive film program in the country. Initially, its students were members of the military, and others training for the war effort. After the war ended and Richter returned to Europe, the film program was split among different departments. In its current incarnation, the graduate media arts production program began in 1997.
Graduates of the various City College film programs include Julie Dash, who directed "Daughters of the Dust" (1991), one of the first features by an African-American woman to be released nationally. Another alumnus, Joseph B. Vasquez, whose career was cut short when he died of AIDS in 1995, directed the highly praised "Hangin' With the Homeboys" (1991), which starred John Leguizamo in a story about four friends from the Bronx.
The aesthetic for most of the student films is determined by economic necessity. Some of the films are shot in synchronized sound, that is, with the sound recorded simultaneously. But this technique is quite expensive, so they are notably lacking in dialogue. Typically, with synchronized sound, "if you have a sound problem, a noise in the background, you have to rerecord and reshoot," Mr. Mercado, the director of "Sensitive," said. 
The films have a visual density, since much of their meaning depends on the photography and subtle changes in the actors' expressions. The college has up-to-date 16-millimeter cameras and digital editing equipment, which are available to students.
The program has benefited greatly from digital technology. "You can shoot digital video for pennies on the dollar, compared to 16-millimeter film," Mr. Davidson said, "which helps our documentary students immensely, because of the amount of footage they have to shoot." Most of the documentaries, like "La Lucha Se Hace" ("The Struggle Is Made"), by Deanna Davis, are shot directly on digital video. Ms. Davis describes her film, about Mexican wrestling, as a metaphor for power relations in Mexican society. In Spanish with English subtitles, it is sprinkled with quotations from the French literary theorist Roland Barthes.
Most of the narrative projects are shot on 16-millimeter film, which offers superior image quality, rather than on video. Such movies are also inherently less costly because they are planned in advance in a script. The finished films are then transferred to video, which is digitized, saving further expense. (It is cheaper to edit the film after it has been transferred to video.) The program does not require students to pay the extra laboratory cost of having their final prints on film.
For almost all the students, producing films has involved financial sacrifice. Norma Castillo, 40, has taken out loans and sold her house in Nicaragua to make "Zumbi." This film is about a 60-year-old former prostitute in Managua, who witnesses a murder that awakens memories of her own journey from the countryside to the city. It is set against a background of four decades of political turmoil. "She travels to the city in order to survive," Ms. Castillo said. "But the city defeats her."
Proceeds from the Cityvisions Film Festival's $5 admission charge will go to the graduate scholarship fund of the media arts production program. The films will be shown tonight and tomorrow night from 6 to 10; the information number is (212) 650-7235. Peter Bogdanovich, the director most recently of "The Cat's Meow," is to be the keynote speaker tonight.

GRAPHIC: Photos: From left, Gustavo Mercado, Deanna Davis, Yuka Okura, Amo and Norma Castillo, students in City College's graduate program in media arts production. Their movies will be shown tonight and tomorrow in the Cityvisions Film Festival. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. E4); Gustavo Mercado's "Sensitive," top, about illegal aliens; Norma Castillo's "Zumbi," about a Nicaraguan prostitute. (pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); FILM (92%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TUITION FEES (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); FILM SCHOOLS (89%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (76%); ASIAN AMERICANS (75%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (75%); WOMEN WORKERS (74%); WOMEN (74%); MARRIAGE (71%); DEPORTATION (70%); REFUGEES (70%); LAWYERS (54%) MOTION PICTURES; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; FESTIVALS 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COLLEGE (CCNY) 

PERSON: SMITH, DINITIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); URUGUAY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2002 



698 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Six Wars And Counting 

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
It's clear now that the Israeli-Palestinian clashes that erupted in the spring of 2002 qualify as the sixth Arab-Israeli war -- going down in history with the 1948, 1956, 1967, 1973 and 1982 wars. The 2002 war doesn't have a proper name yet (the Suicide War?). But like all previous Arab-Israeli wars, it is having a proper aftermath -- shaking up Arab, Israeli and Palestinian politics as much as the five previous wars did.
 Let's start with the Palestinians. Well before this war there was already bubbling Palestinian criticism that their "al-Aqsa intifada" had no clearly defined goals and that Yasir Arafat, instead of developing them, was just surfing on his people's anger and trying to direct it away from his own misrule. Yes, Mr. Arafat is still the most nimble survivor of his own mistakes. But this time he has really hurt the Palestinian cause, and Palestinians know it. 
 First, by provoking Israel with repeated suicide bombings, Mr. Arafat triggered an Israeli retaliation that didn't just destroy Arab cities -- as he did in Amman in 1970 and Beirut in 1982. This time he provoked the destruction of Palestinian cities: Ramallah, Nablus, Jenin and Bethlehem. Second, by encouraging this Suicide War -- after rejecting a clear-cut U.S. plan for a Palestinian state -- Mr. Arafat has badly damaged Palestinian ties with America. President Bill Clinton met with Mr. Arafat more times than with any other foreign leader. Today Mr. Arafat couldn't get to see President Bush if he signed up for a White House tour. 
Third, this Suicide War has badly alienated the only party that can deliver the Palestinians a state -- the Israeli silent majority. The whole history of the peace process can be reduced to one simple point: If the Palestinians persuade the Israeli center that they are ready to live side by side in peace, they will get a state; if they don't, they won't. Everything else is just commentary.
The aftermath of the Suicide War on Israeli politics has been equally profound. "It has ended the deep political debate between the left and the right that has dominated Israeli politics since 1967," said Moshe Halbertal, a Hebrew University philosophy professor and fellow of the Hartman Institute. "The two big ideas that have dominated Israeli politics have both collapsed."
Indeed, the idea of the Jewish right that Israel could maintain a colonial occupation of the West Bank, and continue to seize Palestinian land for more settlements, and that the Palestinians would just roll over and take it, has been exploded. But the idea of the Israeli left that Mr. Arafat, if returned to the West Bank, would build a decent government and civil society that would end the conflict with Israel on the basis of a two-state solution has also been undermined. 
As a result, Israel today, instead of being divided around two ideas, is united around two ideas: A clear majority of Israelis are ready to smash the Palestinians as long as they persist in suicide bombings, and an equally clear majority of Israelis are ready to consider the Saudi peace initiative -- full withdrawal in return for normal relations -- as the basis for a settlement if the Palestinians ever persuade them that they are ready to end the violence.
The big impact on Arab leaders is their realization that the explosion of Arab satellite TV stations and the Internet means they can no longer control public opinion. The tabloid Arab media have inflamed the Arab street with images of the West Bank fighting. No, this inflamed street won't topple any leaders soon. But popular discontent over the Arabs' weakness in the face of Israel is melding with popular discontent about the weakness of Arab economies and dictatorial regimes, in ways that are worrying moderate Arab leaders and making them eager to get this Palestinian show off the air. 
Bottom line: The region is more ripe than ever for a big U.S. initiative. Unfortunately, none of the leaders -- American, Israeli or Palestinian -- seem willing to step up to what's needed. That is, to create a transition structure in the West Bank and Gaza -- a new mandate under U.S. or NATO supervision -- that would oversee the gradual building of a responsible Palestinian Authority and the gradual unbuilding of settlements. If we shirk that task we'll just be setting the stage for the seventh Arab-Israeli war.
In my May 15 column I referred to Eric Rouleau as the Middle East correspondent for Le Monde. Although he served in that role for many years, Mr. Rouleau is no longer associated with Le Monde. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIOTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (90%); POLITICS (89%); BOMBINGS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); PEACE PROCESS (65%); PHILOSOPHY (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2002 



699 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; 
A Little Something for the Philadelphia Skyline

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
Willard G. Rouse III, the chairman of Liberty Property Trust, has spent millions of his investors' dollars on his plan to build a skyscraper here in the heart of the downtown business district. For nearly a year, his deputy, John S. Gattuso, has been leading potential tenants through a visually stunning presentation of the building's attributes, replete with projected images, dioramas, a film and panoramic displays of the view from each nonexistent floor, photographed from a helicopter.
 Thirteen blocks away, a man Mr. Gattuso says is not his competitor is also showing off renderings. Gerard H. Sweeney, the chief executive of Brandywine Realty Trust, proposed earlier this month to build an office tower attached to the 30th Street Amtrak station. 
 Real estate analysts here say that one but not both of these companies stands a chance of finding a large tenant to justify starting construction, but that chance alone has roused brokers who have not had a new skyscraper to fill for nearly a decade.
"It does immediately create an interest and excitement in our community," said Karen A. Daly, executive managing director of the Philadelphia office of Insignia ESG, the real estate services company. "And to have two REIT's battling it out, we like to be here to watch."
The challenges to both plans are readily evident. The primary source of potential tenants for the developers of both buildings is a batch of Philadelphia employers whose leases expire in 2005 and 2006, including the drug maker GlaxoSmithKline, the consulting firm Towers Perrin, the insurer Cigna, the reinsurer ACE Group and the Sunoco petroleum company. But sublease space is already at an all-time high, according to the real estate services firm Cushman & Wakefield, and office vacancy rates have risen to 13.5 percent in the central business district from 7.8 percent a year ago.
And Philadelphia developers have never had an easy time bringing outside business to town. The city's wage taxes of more than 3 percent have helped create a thriving biotechnology industry outside the city limits in the Delaware Valley.
Both developers said they wanted to have about half of their buildings preleased before starting construction, but both also said that they could finance their projects from their own balance sheets. Several real estate analysts said that although they saw no short-term need for more office space, they would not be surprised to see construction begin on at least one of these proposed developments.
"Often, real estate is built as long as the funding is there, even if it looks like it will increase vacancy rates across the city, and these absolutely will," said Susan Wachter, a professor of real estate and finance at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania.
Both developers say they will get around the impediment of rising vacancy rates in Class A office space -- a term used for the most modern, well-equipped buildings in the best locations -- by constructing what they call Class AA office space.
To that end, Mr. Rouse commissioned the architect Robert A. M. Stern to design a $360 million 746-foot-tall edifice of golden Kasota stone and long windows. Called 1 Pennsylvania Plaza, the building would have 1.23 million square feet of rentable space and be positioned atop an envisioned plaza across the street from the Penn Center Suburban Station.
"For the project to be Class AA, it had to be bigger in scale," said Mr. Gattuso, a senior vice president of Liberty Property Trust.
Mr. Sweeney, of Brandywine, paid Amtrak a nominal fee for development rights on its property -- if the project goes forward the companies will enter into complicated long-term lease agreements -- and hired Cesar Pelli to design a 435-foot tall 735,000-square-foot light-glass tower called Cira Centre that appears to recede from the sky beside the long-distance rail station.
"We didn't need to rise to a significant height to create the scale," he said.
Each developer has to make his case to many of the same potential tenants, and each has his selling points. Because of the way Philadelphia developed, the 13 blocks between Mr. Rouse's vacant lot and the elevated parking lot that Mr. Sweeney wants to demolish might as well be far longer. In fact, the distance is the factor that Mr. Gattuso, the Liberty executive, cited in asserting that the two developers are not in competition for the same sort of tenants.
At the start of the 20th century, law firms and banks moved into developments around City Hall, near the remaining residential space in what remains the heart of downtown. In 1936 the Philadelphia Savings Fund Society building at Market Street and 12th Street became the first modern office tower, anchoring the center of Philadelphia around North Broad Street and 15th Street as the city's economy shifted from a manufacturing base to a service industry base. Developers were finally allowed to build higher than the statue of William Penn atop City Hall in 1986, and there was a rapid spate of tall construction in this small area that came to a halt in 1992.
Mr. Rouse bought his plot of land at 17th Street from Equitable Life for $25 million in 2000. It sits right in this city center, two blocks from City Hall, and a location amidst the bustle is a primary marketing point. The walk to the Amtrak station, where Mr. Sweeney's company hopes to build, is short in distance only. Along the way, there is little to speak of but the shuttered Philadelphia Carpet Company, as well as an outfit that is open for business and promises "Two XXX Adult Hits."
Mr. Sweeney, however, has the advantage of Amtrak's agreement to pay for a new parking lot, and he hopes to secure a tenant company whose employees routinely shuttle off to Washington and New York. He also has a Keystone Opportunity Expansion Zone, where he can offer potential tenants the powerful inducement of no state or local taxes for about a decade.
Both development firms own substantial property in the Philadelphia suburbs, and both have remained in that niche until now. Mr. Rouse directed development of both the Philadelphia Convention Center and the recently opened Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts, and he has told business associates for years that he desires a last great signature office tower project downtown. Mr. Sweeney has a relatively low profile inside the city. He said that he saw an opportunity in Amtrak's request for proposals to build a sort of bridge between downtown and the university neighborhoods west of the Schuylkill River.
"One of these guys is going to make it work," said Scott Janzen, a principal in charge of the Philadelphia office of Lend Lease Real Estate Investments, a commercial real estate services firm. "It may not be good for the market because its going to pull tenants out of other buildings, but they'll get it done."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Left, a rendering of the proposed Cira Centre by Cesar Pelli, and right, a rendering of 1 Pennsylvania Plaza by Robert A. M. Stern. (Tom Schaller) Map of Philadelphia highlighting areas surrounding business district: Business district office vacancy rates have risen in the last year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (92%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (78%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (69%); REINSURANCE (64%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (50%) REAL ESTATE AND DEVELOPMENT; PHILADELPHIA (PA) 

COMPANY: GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (66%); CIGNA CORP (58%); LIBERTY PROPERTY TRUST (58%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); BRANDYWINE REALTY TRUST (57%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (56%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBERTY PROPERTY TRUST (LRY) 

TICKER: GSK (NYSE) (66%); GSK (LSE) (66%); BIOC (EGX) (66%); CI (NYSE) (58%); LRY (NYSE) (58%); BDN (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (66%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (58%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (56%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (56%) SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS; 

PERSON: ROUSE, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2002 



700 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Expectations Ebb; Other EconomicGauges Rise 

BYLINE:  By Reuters

 BODY:
Consumer confidence edged higher in May, but the expectations of Americans fell for a second month, a business research report said yesterday, providing further suggestions that the recovery is likely to slow in coming months. 
 The Commerce Department, in a separate report, said that consumer spending rose for a fifth consecutive month in April. 
And the National Association of Realtors reported that the sales of existing homes surged 7 percent in April. 
Over all, economists said, the reports suggested that consumers were likely to keep supporting the economy until businesses begin investing and hiring again.
"The bottom line is that consumers still see economic conditions getting better, but the degree of improvement is less than they saw earlier in the year," said Mark Vitner, senior economist at Wachovia Securities in Charlotte, N.C. 
The research group, the Conference Board, said its index of consumer confidence rose to 109.8 in May from 108.5 in April, which had been revised downward. The index was mostly in line with forecasts of a slight increase to 109.0, but below the 110.7 in March.
Confidence edged up, the board said, as Americans expressed optimism about the economy's recovery and the labor market.
But it was the decline in the expectations index, a gauge of consumers' outlook for the next six months, that some economists focused on. The expectations index fell for a second month, to 109.4 in May from 109.6 in April. "This mediocre showing for the view of the future is somewhat disturbing" said Drew Matus, an economist at Lehman Brothers, "as it suggests that the consumer may be tiring and that the current rate of consumption is being inflated by low interest rates."
In its report, the Commerce Department said that consumer spending rose 0.5 percent in April, to a $7.32 trillion annual pace, after gaining 0.3 percent in March. Spending on durable goods -- items intended to last three years or more, like cars and appliances -- rose 1.4 percent. 
Consumer spending is expected to remain close to the 3.2 percent pace of growth posted in the first quarter, giving businesses leeway to start to increase their capital investment, some economists said. 
Personal income grew 0.3 percent in April, matching analysts' expectations, compared with a 0.4 percent increase in March. 
The National Association of Realtors said that sales of existing homes surged 7 percent last month, to a seasonally adjusted annual pace of 5.79 million units from a revised 5.41 million units in March.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Personal Income"Total personal income in trillions of dollars, before taxes, at seasonally adjusted annual rates. Graph tracks income figures from November 2000 to April 2002. Personal Income and SpendingBillions of dollars, seasonally adjustedannual rates. AprilIncome: $8,938.7Consumption: 6,618.3 Change from MarchIncome: +0.3%Consumption: +0.5(Source: Commerce Department) Chart: "Consumer Confidence"Index measuring attitudes toward the economy, based on 1985 = 100. May: 109.8April: 108.5March: 110.7 Graph tracks figures from December 2000 through May 2002.(Sources: Conference Board, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (79%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); EXISTING HOME SALES (77%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); INTEREST RATES (63%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2002 



701 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE: NEW JERSEY; 
After a False Start, a Big Building Awaits Its Tenant

BYLINE:  By RACHELLE GARBARINE

 BODY:
A big industrial building in North Bergen, N.J., that sat unused for two years after it was outfitted with $35 million worth of high-technology equipment that was never used is to become the headquarters of a fast-growing retailing chain.
 It will be the home of Vitamin Shoppe, the discount retailer, which has leased 231,718 square feet of the 350,000-square-foot building. The space had been equipped, but never opened, as a distribution center for Webvan, the Internet-based grocery company that closed last year. 
 Vitamin Shoppe will set up its corporate headquarters and distribution center by next March in the building, at 2101 91st Street in this Hudson County town, close to Manhattan. The retailer is consolidating and expanding from 91,000 square feet in four buildings, one in Secaucus and the others elsewhere in North Bergen. 
It will occupy the space formerly leased by Webvan, which had turned the inside of the 15-year-old structure into a distribution center that was crisscrossed with conveyor belts and relied on a computerized system to pack customers' orders. There were also storage and preparation areas, a training room and offices.
Many of the specialty rooms were dismantled, and much of the equipment and furniture were auctioned as part of a bankruptcy court settlement with the building's owner, Hartz Mountain Industries of Secaucus, one of the larger property owners in the 32-square-mile Meadowlands.
Dot-com casualties did not hit northern New Jersey as hard as other parts of the nation, said Frank Lopriore, a managing director at the Saddle Brook, N.J. office of Insignia/ ESG, the national real estate services company. In the Meadowlands, Mr. Lopriore said, e-commerce companies held six leases for just over 500,000 square feet. Much of that has been vacated by the dot-com tenants.
Webvan's space was the largest. But Emanuel Stern, president of Hartz, said, "Although Webvan never operated out of the building, it paid its rent until its bankruptcy, and with our security deposit and the building's asset, we came out whole."
The overall amount of empty dot-com space is a fraction of the 5.74 million square feet of industrial space vacant in the Meadowlands as of the first quarter of this year, putting the vacancy rate at 10 percent, up from 6 percent a year ago. The average rent being asked rose to $6.55 from $6.39 a square foot a year, Mr. Lopriore said, although some landlords are offering concessions, like two to four months of free rent, as inducements to sign leases.
Despite the higher vacancy rate, Mr. Lopriore said, the Meadowlands remains a stable market because it is close to Manhattan and transportation and has access to labor. The available space, he said, will be leased as expanding companies, waiting for the economy to improve, make deals.
When Webvan went bankrupt, said Mr. Stern of Hartz, "we wanted our asset back and fast-tracked our settlement." He said, however, that many of the improvements in the building had been removed because most prospective tenants could not use them. 
That did not matter to Vitamin Shoppe, which has 100 stores and plans to open 50 more in the next 18 months.
"We were bursting at the seams," said Thomas Tolworthy, president of Vitamin Shoppe, discussing the reasons for the move. "Being able to consolidate operations under one roof would increase efficiency."
Jonathan Schultz, president of the Schultz Organization/TCN Worldwide, a real estate services firm in Woodbridge, N.J., said, "Large discounters and small providers of essential goods, like food and even vitamins, are among the few retailers growing because they are recession-proof."
The 25-year-old Vitamin Shoppe spent nine months searching for a new home before selecting the North Bergen building. Mr. Tolworthy said the fact that the new headquarters were about two miles from the company's current locations is expected to help meet the main goal of retaining its 280 employees. 
Vitamin Shoppe is also able to take advantage of the improvements still in the building, like the new ceiling, floor and lighting, said Jared L. Horowitz, a broker at the Manhattan office of Cushman & Wakefield, the real estate services firm that represented the retailer in the lease. He said Vitamin Shoppe would expand the office space to 40,000 square feet, upgrade the building's exterior and perhaps create a 3,000- to 5,000-square-foot store. Mr. Horowitz is the son of Vitamin Shoppe's founder, Jeffrey J. Horowitz.
Executives involved with the transaction would not disclose the rent. But Mr. Tolworthy said the value of the 15-year lease, including the planned improvements, was slightly more than $20 million.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Data Update"Value of residential construction contracts, seasonally adjusted annual rate through April. Graph tracks regional figures (south, west, midwest, and northeast), measured in billions, from 2000 through 2002. NATIONAL (IN BILLIONS) APRIL '01$208.5 FEB. '02249.2 MARCH '02228.2 APRIL '02232.0(Source: F. W. Dodge/McGraw-Hill Construction)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); RETAILERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (65%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (50%) REAL ESTATE AND DEVELOPMENT; NEW JERSEY; CONSTRUCTION AND BUILDING MATERIALS 

COMPANY: VITAMIN SHOPPE INC (58%); HARTZ MOUNTAIN INDUSTRIES INC (54%)

TICKER: VSI (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (59%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2002 



702 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: Budget Gap Puts Pressure On Legislators In New Jersey 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD LEZIN JONES 

 BODY:
New Jersey's projected budget deficit has grown by more than half a billion dollars, the state treasurer announced yesterday, leaving legislators scrambling even further to close an already yawning shortfall.
 Lower-than-expected state tax revenues in April have created an additional budget gap of $589 million, said John E. McCormac, the state treasurer. 
 That comes on top of a budget gap that had already been estimated at $2.9 billion for the fiscal year that ends on June 30. The New Jersey Constitution requires that the state end each fiscal year with a balanced budget. 
Although yesterday's revised figures would put the combined shortfall at $3.4 billion, Mr. McCormac said budget-cutting measures that Gov. James E. McGreevey has put before the Legislature would reduce that figure to $125 million. 
But Mr. McCormac said that more cuts would have to be made, stressing the importance of "immediate intervention" by the governor.
The state's 2002 budget "cannot recover in the five weeks that remain in the fiscal year," Mr. McCormac said in a statement.
The newest projected shortfall is the third revised estimate this year.
Tax collections in New Jersey were $233.3 million below revised estimates in recent weeks and are more than $750 million below projections when the budget was adopted by the Legislature last June.
The recent revisions were most likely the result of overly optimistic estimates of how much the state would take in versus how much it spends.
Even before yesterday's announcement, the state had already identified $64 million in budget savings, which were primarily achieved by freezing spending during the next month. Mr. McCormac said that the administration was considering other measures, such as borrowing $125 million in excess money that would have been used for unemployment insurance.
Diverting that unemployment insurance, or U.I. money, would require the approval of the Legislature.
"We will immediately initiate discussions with legislative leaders over options concerning the diversion of additional U.I. funds," Mr. McCormac said. "It is unfortunate that we find it necessary to revisit payments to the U.I. fund as a budget solution, but we have few choices."
One choice, Mr. McCormac said, was using the bulk of the state's half-billion-dollar reserve fund to help cover the gap.
In February, when Mr. McGreevey outlined a plan to narrow the shortfall, he took great pains to preserve that fund. 
The state's fiscal condition has become so perilous, Mr. McCormac said, that the state would use about $400 million of the reserve -- leaving $100 million -- to address the budget.
Even with those measures, the administration estimated that the gap still stands at $125 million, which would be filled with the redirected U.I. money.
Last week, the McGreevey administration shelved a plan under which the state would have taken out a $1 billion loan to cover expenses until June 30. But the loan, which would have been repaid with next year's projected revenue, had been opposed by some in Trenton who argued that it was unconstitutional. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (96%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); APPROVALS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%) BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: MCCORMAC, JOHN E (TREASURER); MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (GOV); JONES, RICHARD LEZIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2002 



703 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: NATO and Russia Shake Hands, but Will They Come Out Sparring? 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL WINES

DATELINE: MOSCOW, May 28 

 BODY:
Anyone who doubted that today's formation of a new NATO-Russia Council was something of a diplomatic triumph needed only to listen to leader after leader calling it historic.
 Anyone who doubts that moving from diplomatic triumph to real NATO-Russia cooperation will be more difficult need only listen to Dmitri Trenin, who just returned from the NATO Defense College, a few miles from where the accord was signed today. 
 Mr. Trenin, an expert on Russian foreign and military policies, lectured to Azerbaijanis, Uzbeks, Albanians and Macedonians, among others. But not to Russians: the only Russian to enroll in a senior course came in 1997, and he left early. 
"I had a course of people from 31 nations, and not a single Russian," Mr. Trenin said. Officials at the college "have been complaining and writing letters," he said. "And yet there's no response."
It is a small but sobering indicator of the grunt work that awaits the bureaucrats and military officers on both sides of the East-West divide who are supposed to translate soaring pronouncements into real trust.
Their leaders may have embalmed and buried the cold war, but the cold truth, many experts say, is that too many veterans of that era on both sides still neither like nor trust one another very much.
The new NATO-Russia Council is the first organization to give the Kremlin a say, though not a veto, in the actual deliberations of the Western alliance. The previous effort to bind Russia and NATO was an abject failure in both sides' eyes. A host of mutual suspicions dogged the two sides' contacts, and the effort was doomed by Russian outrage over NATO's war in 1999 against Yugoslavia, then Russia's ally.
"The atmosphere is significantly better this time than it was in '97," a senior Bush administration official said. "But it is really going to take a commitment on all sides to do the tough work necessary to move this process forward."
Russians and Westerners alike say the new alliance faces potential pitfalls.
One is that neither NATO nor the Kremlin will display the political will to make the new council work. The range of issues now open to Russian influence is potentially sweeping, from counterterrorism to the spread of weapons to peacekeeping. But so are the loopholes: under the new rules, any NATO member can take an issue off the NATO-Russia discussion agenda for any reason.
Among some experts, that sounds like an open invitation to some of NATO's more Russophobic members -- mostly former eastern European satellites of the Soviet Union -- to filibuster the new relationship to an early death.
As for Russia, experts on both sides say their greatest fear is that the Kremlin lacks the experienced and Western-savvy bureaucrats essential to the council's success.
Few doubt that Mr. Putin is committed to making the new arrangement work. But his control of the bureaucracy is limited at best, and many of the bureaucracy's best and brightest left long ago for lucrative private-sector jobs. Their departure left large parts of the military and foreign policy establishment in the hands of career officials schooled in the ideologies of the 1970's and 1980's.
"One of the fears on our side is that the Russians are going to staff this mission with the same sort of people they staffed it with over the past several years: people who largely look at this as an intelligence-gathering operation, not as an opportunity for genuine cooperation," the Bush administration official said.
Even if high-level cooperation on the council succeeds, some fear that the two sides' militaries will be too hamstrung by cold war enmity to execute NATO-Russia political decisions.
Western officials say cultural exchange efforts like stints at the NATO Defense College have stagnated since the mid-1990's, picking up only recently. 
While East-West military contacts continue, Russian military participation in NATO exercises is rare, grudging and often cast as "observation" of the alliance's maneuvers instead of true involvement.
That will probably not be important in the near future, because the new council does not contemplate any quick melding of Western and Russian military capacity, said Vladimir Z. Dvorkin, a retired major general now at the PIR Center, a Russian policy research organization. "But in the future," he said, "everything will depend on the technology of this cooperation, and on how deep it will penetrate the armed forces."
Mr. Dvorkin said Russia and NATO, whose militaries keep the peace side by side in the Balkans, needed to broaden military cooperation on real-world problems -- say, a joint exercise against a hypothetical terrorist enemy -- and to step up exchanges of military officials.
Finally, both sides worry that the best of intentions will still be torpedoed by a Yugoslavia-style military crisis that sours relations once more. The prime candidate is Iraq, a Russian friend and economic partner.
Ordinary Russians' suspicion of NATO already runs high, according to a poll by the Mosocw-based Public Opinion Foundation.
"You can use this new council to learn more about NATO from the inside, or you can use it to raise obstacles from inside to any alternative course of action you think wil damage your interests," said Mr. Trenin, the deputy director of the Moscow Center of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. "Or you can be forward looking and use the council as a vehicle for Russia's security and integration with the West.
"The first two are unworkable. The third is, well, too much to hope for." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); COLD WAR (78%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); COUNTERTERRORISM (50%); TERRORISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); EUROPE (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); ALBANIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2002 



704 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: Bay Area Real Estate Prices Too Hot forSome to Touch 

BYLINE:  By MATT RICHTEL

DATELINE: SARATOGA, Calif. 

 BODY:
The ranch-style house, on a corner lot in this Silicon Valley suburb, was listed for sale at $1.1 million. It was a fixer-upper that needed a lot of work, assuming it would not be torn down. But within three days the house had 18 offers, most from buyers eager to pay cash. It sold for $1.45 million.
 The sale sounds like something that took place two years ago, when the dot-com economy was soaring. But it occurred earlier this month, amid a regional downturn in which unemployment is up markedly and individual net worth has plunged in lock step with the Nasdaq stock market. 
 Despite tough economic times, the real estate market in the San Francisco Bay Area, after a very brief cooling off period, is sizzling again. But instead of celebrating the boom in housing, as much of the country has been doing lately, Valley residents are raising alarms. Housing in this region, some of the most expensive in the country, was already unaffordable to many and the problem is growing worse as wages and employment weaken. 
 Across the country, sales of existing homes rose sharply last month, the National Association of Realtors reported on Tuesday, and prices have continued to increase, with the median home price of $153,300 up 7.1 percent from a year earlier. 
The phenomenon in Silicon Valley, however, is somewhat different from that elsewhere, where lower mortgage interest rates have easily outweighed the recession's effect on home sales. Here, an extreme shortage of housing and land is combining with leftover wealth from the technology boom and pent-up demand from buyers who feel the real estate market is a safer place to be than the stock market. And many people who did not try to buy real estate during the boom, figuring they could not afford it, have come off the sidelines and started making offers on property even if their incomes do not justify it.
"It's really the paradox of Silicon Valley," said Stephen Levy, director of the Center for the Continuing Study of the California Economy, based in Palo Alto. "If we're doing this during a recession, imagine what's going to happen when the economy heats up."
Mr. Levy said that the problem, fundamentally, was a shortage of housing across all levels from the extremely affluent to the service worker. While the collapse of technology stocks wiped out a lot of wealth, he and others who follow this market say that it did not clean people out completely, and it also left many determined not to go overboard on stocks again.
"Housing prices are continuing to go up, and the stock market is continuing to go down," said John K. McIlwain, a senior fellow for housing for the Urban Land Institute, a nonprofit research center. "Where do you want your money?"
Nationally, Mr. McIlwain said, the growth in the number of potential home buyers continues apace, with the biggest impacts being felt in the South and West.
During the 1990's, he said, the country grew by 32 million people, exceeding growth in the 1950's of 28 million, the explosion that yielded the term baby boomers. And he said the country was poised to add another 30 million in each of the next two decades, with 70 percent to 80 percent coming internally, not from immigration.
The nine-county Bay Area is expected to grow by a million people in the next 20 years, according to the Bay Area Council, a regional public policy group. But the council said only 401,570 housing units were planned -- 264,000 short of the number necessary to balance housing with that growth. 
The disconnect between supply and demand suggests to some economists that this market is less of a real estate bubble than was the case the last time a serious recession here coincided with rising housing prices, in the late 1980's. Then, Mr. Levy said, there was more speculative buying of property in hopes of reselling it at a profit.
But there may be a bubble of a different kind -- a debt bubble -- said Ken Rosen, a professor at the Haas School of Business at the University of California at Berkeley, who studies real estate trends. He said that people who were anxious to buy homes on the theory that prices would only continue to rise were borrowing as never before, sometimes putting themselves in precarious positions of spending 40 percent to 50 percent of monthly income on mortgages. Prices are "so far out of line with incomes," Mr. Rosen said.
The contrast between stronger demand and weaker incomes is particularly pronounced in Silicon Valley. Mr. Levy noted that regional unemployment is around 6.4 percent, up from 2 percent in December 2000, and that there are 100,000 to 150,000 fewer jobs here than there were a year ago.
The housing market in Silicon Valley tapered off last year, but it rebounded quickly after Sept. 11, said Harry Murray, manager of Alain Pinel Realtors, based in Saratoga. "It's been just crazy since October," he said.
The median home price in the Bay Area, composed of nine counties including and surrounding San Francisco, rose to a record $402,000 in April, according to figures released this month by DataQuick Information Systems. That is up from $378,000 a year ago.
The California Association of Realtors estimated this month that there was a 2.6-month supply of homes on the market, meaning that if no other homes were added to the inventory, the existing supply would be sold out in that time. That compares with an inventory of 3.8 months a year ago.
The association's seven-county survey found that in April in the Bay Area, only 23 percent of people could afford the median home price, which the realtors group estimated at $530,000, up from slightly more than $507,000 in March and by far the highest in the country. (The median figures are higher than the DataQuick figures in part because they include only single-family homes, not condominiums, and do not measure Napa and Sonoma Counties.)
During the dot-com boom, affordability dipped to 18 percent, but economists were less concerned then because they assumed that housing prices were being temporarily driven up by the stock bubble, and that they would come back down again. 
Even those who can afford to own a home are concerned about the circumstances -- and baffled about how a struggling local economy can fit with red-hot real estate.
"It begs the question: why should it run up this much?" said Chuck Jones, a financial analyst whose own circumstances in some ways illustrate the complexities of the issue and the seeming dichotomies. Mr. Jones was laid off last July from Solomon Smith Barney, where he had worked for almost five years. He spent five months out of work before getting a new job at a smaller firm, Stein Roe, and for a lower salary.
But despite the tumult, his current residence in Menlo Park -- which he shares with his wife, Aaron, and two daughters -- rose in value by several hundred thousand dollars and is now worth $1 million to $1.5 million. That's the good news.
The bad news is that the family had hoped to upgrade to a larger home, but the prices of homes they have looked at have gone up, too -- beyond the point they can afford. One home they looked at, since sold, was priced at $1.9 million, dipped to $1.6 million right after Sept. 11, but is probably worth $2 million now. 
"It gets you to think about remodeling," Mr. Jones said.
The phenomenon is hardly just affecting current homeowners, or the already affluent. Mr. Levy said the problem was taking a growing toll on "nurses, teachers and firefighters" as well as others who serve communities where they can no longer afford to live. He said that it was not merely the low-wage workers who were frozen out of home ownership. "This is a poverty problem, but it's not just that. It's an everybody problem," he said. "This is threatening the fabric of the state's ability to compete."
Mr. Rosen from Berkeley said one obvious solution in the Bay Area would be denser housing. But there are tough hurdles for developers looking to get permits to build, chief among them the lingering impact of Proposition 13, the 1979 tax-revolt law. Mr. Rosen said that under the law, property taxes cannot exceed 1 percent of the value of the home; many communities are afraid that new developments they allow to be built will not generate sufficient tax revenue to pay for support services.
Nationally, inventories are down, too, according to the National Association of Realtors, which found that there was a 4.3-months supply of homes on the market in March. "We have historic lows in inventory," said Walter Molony, a spokesman for the Realtors association.
The area with the biggest increase in home prices was Long Island, where the median price during the first quarter rose to $287,500, up 26.5 percent from a year before.

GRAPHIC: Photos: This three-bedroom, two-bath home in Redwood City, Calif., was listed for $669,000 and sold for $705,000 after it had three offers above the asking price. (Thor Swift for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Doug Gonzalez, a real estate agent in Menlo Park, Calif., where home prices have soared along with the rest of the San Francisco Bay Area. (Thor Swift for The New York Times)(pg. C7) Chart: "A Resilient Market"Despite a downturn in the local economy, the housing market in the San Francisco Bay area has bounced back and prices are heading up again. Graph tracks monthly totals of all homes sold in the San Francisco Bay area from 1995 through 2002. Graph tracks median price of all homes sold, measured monthly, from 1995 through 2002.(Source: DataQuick Information Systems)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); RECESSION (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TRENDS (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); EXISTING HOME SALES (75%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); HOUSING STARTS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (66%); INTEREST RATES (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%) REAL ESTATE AND DEVELOPMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (55%)

TICKER: NDAQ (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2002 



705 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 168 words

HEADLINE: Rock Star With a Cause 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Commenting on the higher wages of workers for an American insurance company in Ghana (Accra Journal, May 22), Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill said, "It is not a difficult question whether you want to have people paid $1 a day or $1 an hour." 
 In fact, the issue is whether workers are being paid a living wage, meaning wages enough to meet the basic needs of the worker and her or his family, plus some discretionary income. 
This varies widely from one country or region to another, as it is based on local prices for the market basket and consumption needs. 
 In Ghana, as in other places (including New York City), the current minimum wage does not constitute a living wage. In addition to debt relief and development aid, alleviating Africa's poverty includes legislation, codes of conduct and collective bargaining agreements that guarantee workers a living wage.

ELENA ARENGO
New York, May 22, 2002

The writer is worker training program coordinator, Social Accountability International.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); LIVING WAGE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); WRITERS (73%); TRENDS (73%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); DISCRETIONARY INCOME (69%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INSURANCE CO OF TEXAS (58%)

PERSON: ARENGO, ELENA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (86%) GHANA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (90%) AFRICA

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2002 



706 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: Vintner to America? Think Warehouse 

BYLINE:  By AMANDA HESSER

DATELINE: GAIOLE IN CHIANTI, Italy 

 BODY:
Alois Lageder, a renowned winemaker from Alto Adige in northern Italy, stood at the front of a tasting room, glancing from side to side as a group of American buyers tasted his wines. Elegantly dressed in a camel-colored check coat, he had traveled more than 200 miles to Tuscany for a 20-minute presentation. It was his chance to impress the buyers.
 Most of all, it was Mr. Lageder's chance to kiss the ring of the group's leader, one of the country's most powerful wine czars: David Andrew. 
 Mr. Andrew, 39, does not work for Sherry-Lehmann, the prestigious wine purveyor on Madison Avenue in Manhattan, or for Zachys, the big wine seller in Scarsdale, N.Y., or even for the Wine Club, the California chain. He's the global wine director for Costco, which now claims to be America's largest wine retailer. These days, getting a wine into Costco has become the winemaker's equivalent of getting a book on the Oprah Book Club list. 
Since Mr. Andrew, a former literary agent and model turned wine expert, arrived at Costco in 1998, the national warehouse club, which sells everything from bulk diapers to meat at deeply discounted prices, has zoomed into the ranks of the nation's wine elite. Wooing buyers with lower profit margins, Costco's sales of wine ballooned to more than half a billion dollars in 2001, in what the Wine Institute says is a $19.8 billion business, including retail and restaurant sales. 
It isn't jug wine. Costco has become one of America's largest retailers of Veuve Clicquot Yellow Label Champagne and of Dom Perignon, probably the most famous name in Champagne. Alongside its best-selling Kendall-Jackson chardonnay ($8.95), Costco carries top-ranked Bordeaux, noteworthy Antinori wines from Italy and $115 Opus One from Napa Valley.
"If you look at the landscape maybe 10 years ago for a large national retailer, you might find Taylor, Gallo and Almaden," said Erle Martin, the president of Niebaum-Coppola Estate Winery in the Napa Valley. "They've identified a changing trend in wine buying. They're offering top-quality wines and changing the choices people make."
Winemakers everywhere have taken note. "For the general public, in Italy or France, it's not a familiar name," said Piero Antinori, the president of Antinori in Tuscany.
"But for us, we know that they are extremely important in the wine sector," he said.
While other large chain retailers like Sam's Club, a division of Wal-Mart Stores, have moved into the wine business, none have given wines the kind of reverence and dedication that Costco has. None have wine experts of Mr. Andrew's stature, and they are certainly not frolicking around Tuscany tasting wines, as Mr. Andrew did earlier this month when he brought a team of Costco buyers, with previous experience in the nuances of retailing, say, televisions or dog food, for training in the intricacies of wine.
When Mr. Andrew came in, Costco's focus was on the typical assortment of American wines found in run-of-the-mill stores. But he concluded that among Costco customers -- whose average age is 48 and whose median household income is $74,000, according to a study by Hebert Research Inc. -- there must be wine drinkers with potential for more sophistication and much deeper pockets.
"Wine has just become increasingly normal, and Costco is in the business of selling normalcy," said Matt Kramer, a columnist at Wine Spectator, a consumer magazine. A recent Deutsche Bank study found that Costco, with wine in about 230 of its 285 stores nationwide, was the fastest-growing outlet for wine among clubs.
At Costco, where members pay a $45 annual fee, no wine is marked up more than 14 percent, and some barely at all; wine stores customarily mark up as much as 50 percent.
As a result, wine retailers around the country are scrambling, with some taking desperate measures. When a regular customer at Angelbeck's, a small wine store in Upper Montclair, N.J., wanted to buy five cases of Dom Perignon, the store sent its own delivery truck to Costco to buy it for the customer, who saved about $1,000.
Costco and other chain stores are limited by wine laws that vary from state to state. They currently do not sell wine in New York state or Connecticut but do sell it at two locations in New Jersey.
The fact that Costco hired Mr. Andrew in the first place seems unusual. In a corporate culture more Coors Light than Chianti Classico, Mr. Andrew is preparing to take his exam for the Master of Wine certification, a degree held by fewer than 20 people in America. He writes a bimonthly column on wine in The Costco Connection, a magazine that is sent to 3.5 million of its members, listing brands sold at the stores.
Sam's Club, another large chain retailer, with more than 300 outlets selling wine, has no trained oenologist on its staff, and has a much different philosophy. "You can't be subjective," said Michael Rouse of Sam's Club, which does not report its sales figures. "You need to be objective. It's more understanding what your members want to drink than telling them what they should be drinking." 
Mr. Andrew, who is from Scotland, is an unlikely wine czar. Though he began his career selling wine in London, he detoured to France, where he taught English for a year, spent several years as a model in London and Milan, and then he became a literary agent in Los Angeles. 
After deciding to return to the wine business, he began studying with the Institute of Masters of Wine, a London organization where future sommeliers acquire the most intimidating bits of esoteric knowledge, and soon began ruminating over job opportunities. Through a friend who worked at Costco, he learned that the company did not have a wine expert and proposed the position.
"Why would you want to be a wine waiter when you can work at a Fortune 500 company?" he asked. "You have the benefit of having a great company with all of these stores, all of these warehouses all over the place, where you can really do something."
Mr. Andrew, who speaks French and Italian, spends much of the year on the road, seeking new wines and counseling his eight regional buyers on what to stock. Mr. Andrew serves as a sort of youthful Nestor to them. "David is our wine school," said Tim Rose, the senior vice president of food and fresh foods. "We used to be really Napa Valley oriented, so our buyers knew Napa Valley. They really didn't think much outside the box."
That is one reason Mr. Andrew took them to Tuscany this spring to learn about Italian wines. He was introducing them to the subtleties in a Chianti Classico and the beauty in a pinot nero, showing them the earth they come from, and establishing relationships with the winemakers from Antinori to Badia a Coltibuono. During the trip, some buyers tasted Orvieto Classicos for the first time, while others peppered him with questions about fruit and tannins.
"That's got some nice acidity, doesn't it?" Lance Wright, the regional buyer for Texas, said, swirling a 2001 bianco from the Avignonesi winery in Tuscany.
"Yes," Mr. Andrew said crisply in a clipped Scottish accent, "but good acidity, you see. It's well-balanced."
One night after a long day of tasting, back at their rented villa, Mr. Andrew said over a glass of Scotch: "I've given these guys seminars for years and nothing sticks. But to come to the place where it's made is so much different. Then they have a wine, a meal, a feeling to hang it on."
Mr. Andrew also travels every spring to Bordeaux to taste the latest vintage and buy futures, a common practice among retailers that allows them to buy the wine at a reduced cost, betting on its success several years before it's delivered. Unlike most independent retailers, like P. J. Wines in Manhattan that requires customers to put down money ahead of time, Costco does not.
Small retailers cannot afford the narrow profit margins that Costco can. Costco in Wayne, N.J., charges $28.69 for Veuve Clicquot Yellow Label Champagne, which has a wholesale price of $28. At Astor Wines and Spirits in Greenwich Village, a large retailer, it's $29.99. But at Angelbeck's, in Upper Montclair, the price is $39.99. 
"They're pretty brutal on price," Mr. Krauter, the owner of Angelbeck's, said.
But, he quickly added: "Our basement is 57 degrees. Their warehouse is not 57 degrees. When you look at the condition of the fine wine you're buying, it's not a commodity that's easily broken down to price." 
Costco still has a way to go to match the fine wine stores, which have staffs handy to answer questions. Costco's customers are largely left to pore through the selection on their own. "They're not building wine cellars for their customers," Mr. Krauter said. "Come and get me Costco!" he added.
If Mr. Andrew has his way with it, it just may. Costco, he said, is planning to open 30 more stores selling wine this year.

GRAPHIC: Photos: David Andrew, left, is the wine director for Costco. He is preparing to take his exam for the Master of Wine certification, a degree held by fewer than 20 people in America. At right, the Costco in Wayne, N.J. (Sandro Michahelles for The New York Times); (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. C13) Chart: "An Aggressive Little Wine Price"A look at how wine prices in Costco compare with other retailers in the region. BOTTLE OF WINE: 2000 Silverado Vineyards ChardonnayCostco* (Wayne, N.J.): $15.99Angelbeck's (Montclair, N.J.): Does not carryP.J. Wines (Manhattan): 19.99Astor Wines (Manhattan): 18.99Zachys Wine (Scarsdale, N.Y.): $19.99 BOTTLE OF WINE: 1998 Villa Antinori Chianti Classico RiservaCostco* (Wayne, N.J.): 15.99Angelbeck's (Montclair, N.J.): 16.99P.J. Wines (Manhattan): 18.99Astor Wines (Manhattan): 18.99Zachys Wine (Scarsdale, N.Y.): 19.00 BOTTLE OF WINE: Veuve Clicquot Yellow LabelCostco* (Wayne, N.J.): 28.69Angelbeck's (Montclair, N.J.): 39.99P.J. Wines (Manhattan): 29.99Astor Wines (Manhattan): 29.99Zachys Wine (Scarsdale, N.Y.): 35.99 BOTTLE OF WINE: 1998 Robert Mondavi Cabernet Sauvignon ReserveCostco* (Wayne, N.J.): 86.99Angelbeck's (Montclair, N.J.): Does not carryP.J. Wines (Manhattan): Does not carryAstor Wines (Manhattan): 99.00Zachys Wine (Scarsdale, N.Y.): 90.00 BOTTLE OF WINE: 1999 Chateau Palmer BordeauxCostco* (Wayne, N.J.): 67.49Angelbeck's (Montclair, N.J.): 69.99P.J. Wines (Manhattan): 89.99Astor Wines (Manhattan): Does not carryZachys Wine (Scarsdale, N.Y.): 79.00 *Costco prices vary region to region but are generally higher in New Jersey. (pg. C13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINERIES (91%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); WINE (90%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); TRENDS (86%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); RETAIL SALES (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); LITERATURE (67%); LITERARY AGENTS (67%); COMPANY PROFITS (65%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (65%); RANKINGS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP (95%); SAM'S CLUB (60%); WAL-MART STORES INC (56%); VEUVE CLICQUOT PONSARDIN SA (53%)

ORGANIZATION: WINE INSTITUTE (54%)

TICKER: COST (NASDAQ) (95%); WMT (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (95%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (95%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (53%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); ITALY (92%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2002 



707 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 121 words

HEADLINE: Technology Briefing Telecommunications:Telekom Cuts Jobs 

BYLINE:  By Edmund L. Andrews (NYT) (Compiled by Harvey Dickson)

 BODY:
 With its share price beneath the level of its initial public offering nearly six years ago, Deutsche Telekom said it would cut 30,000 jobs, or about 12 percent of its work force, by the end of 2004. Facing angry investors at the company's annual shareholders' meeting, Telekom's chief executive, Ron Sommer, promised to cut costs about $9 billion a year and return the company to a solid financial footing. 
Deutsche Telekom suffered a first-quarter net loss of 1.8 billion euros, or about $1.6 billion, stemming from declining sales in its fixed-line business and costs from its huge investment in wireless networks in Europe and the United States. The company has more than $60 billion in debt. Edmund L. Andrews (NYT)

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the daily closing price of Deutsche Telekom shares, measured in euros, for the week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (88%); SHAREHOLDERS (88%); LABOR FORCE (88%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (82%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (72%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (70%); COMPANY LOSSES (70%); EXECUTIVES (55%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (51%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (84%)

ORGANIZATION: DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG 

TICKER: DTE (FRA) (84%); DTE (BIT) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (84%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2002 



708 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Phone Industry Slump Hurts Canadian Banks 

BYLINE:  By BERNARD SIMON

DATELINE: TORONTO, May 28 

 BODY:
The slump in the telephone business is taking a heavy toll on Canada's banks. Three of the industry's five leaders have reported sharply lower profits in the latest quarter, with big hits from their exposure to troubled borrowers in the North American telecommunications sector.
 The Bank of Montreal said today that its net income in the three months ended April 30 had halved, to 301 million Canadian dollars ($196 million). The bank raised its provisions for loan losses 47 percent, to $209 million, with the bulk of the increase stemming from a $91 million write-off of nearly all its loans to Teleglobe, the intercontinental voice and data carrier owned by BCE of Montreal. Teleglobe, based in Reston, Va., sought protection from its creditors earlier this month, with debts totaling almost $4 billion. 
 According to Heather Wolf, an analyst at Goldman, Sachs in New York, two of the Bank of Montreal's big rivals, the Toronto-Dominion Bank and the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, known as CIBC, have the heaviest exposure to the telecommunications sector relative to their size of any banks in North America, with the industry accounting for 4 to 5 percent of the two banks' loan books. In Toronto-Dominion's case, loans to telecommunications and cable TV companies are equal to about 35 percent of shareholders' equity, or $3.2 billion in all.
They both took a beating in the latest quarterly earnings. Toronto-Dominion reported on May 16 that its earnings fell 63 percent, to 132 million Canadian dollars ($86 million), while CIBC said on May 21 that its profit had halved, to 235 million Canadian dollars ($153 million).
Noting that Canadian banks had been enthusiastic participants in large multibank loans to American telecommunications companies, Jacek Dzierwa, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney in Toronto, said that "the majority of the problems of Canadian banks come from syndicated lending in the United States."
The Bank of Montreal leads a 19-bank syndicate that is owed $1.27 billion by Teleglobe. And CIBC has had a close relationship with Global Crossing, the troubled fiber optic network operator, with outstanding loans of $386 million.
Demonstrating the extent of the telecommunications drag, the two big banks here with more limited exposure to the industry, the Royal Bank of Canada and the Bank of Nova Scotia, both reported higher second-quarter earnings.
Royal, whose earnings rose 14 percent, to 710 million Canadian dollars ($463 million), is Canada's biggest bank but does the least lending to phone companies relative to its size. 
Royal, which reported earnings May 22, was the slowest to expand in the United States, but several acquisitions there over the last year turned positive for the bank in the latest quarter. For example, Centura Banks, based in Rocky Mount, N.C., increased its profit contribution tenfold from the previous quarter.
The Bank of Nova Scotia reported today that its second-quarter earnings improved as well, by 11 percent, to 598 million Canadian dollars ($390 million). Alone among the big five, it made no new loan provisions. In part, that was because the bank had much of its bad news out of the way last quarter, when it wrote off nearly all its investment in Argentina, where it owns the 12th-biggest bank.
Still, Peter Godsoe, the bank's chairman and chief executive, today singled out "the uneven credit conditions in certain sectors created by the economic slowdown" as a major challenge for all banks.
Mr. Dzierwa said that all five banks' performance had suffered from rising Canadian interest rates, including a quarter-point rise in Canadian interest rates last month by the country's central bank, the Bank of Canada, which was intended to keep the robust domestic economy from overheating.
Royal, for instance, reported that its net interest margin, or the difference between what it pays on deposits and gets on loans, dipped to 1.9 percent in the second quarter, from 2.01 percent in the previous three months and 1.97 percent a year ago.
Analysts expect another quarter-point rise in interest rates when the Bank of Canada meets on June 4.
Canadian bank stocks, which are often compared with those of American regional banks, reached peaks earlier this year, but have weakened in the last month, especially those with heavy phone exposure. The Bank of Montreal's share price fell about 1 percent today, to 36.60 Canadian dollars ($23.88), about 10 percent off its recent high. Toronto-Dominion has lost about 15 percent of its value since mid-April, though it gained slightly today.
By contrast, Bank of Nova Scotia rose 3 percent today and is now only slightly off its April peak.
Ms. Wolf at Goldman, Sachs said the Canadian banks also depended more heavily on capital-market activities like securities trading and underwriting, where volumes had recently shrunk. She said she was "not particularly optimistic on the short-term outlook" for the Canadians relative to American banks.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Repercussions"Exposure to the telecommunications industry has hurt profits at many Canadian banks. Figures are for the banks' second fiscal quarter, which ended April 30. BANK: Bank of MontrealCHANGE IN PROFIT FROM A YEAR EARLIER: -50%MAJOR FACTOR: Exposure to Teleglobe bankruptcy BANK: Bank of Nova ScotiaCHANGE IN PROFIT FROM A YEAR EARLIER: +11MAJOR FACTOR: Strong housing market BANK: Toronto DominionCHANGE IN PROFIT FROM A YEAR EARLIER: -63MAJOR FACTOR: Exposure to Teleglobe bankruptcy BANK: Canadian Imperial Bank of CommerceCHANGE IN PROFIT FROM A YEAR EARLIER: -50MAJOR FACTOR: Exposure to Teleglobe bankruptcy BANK: Royal Bank of CanadaCHANGE IN PROFIT FROM A YEAR EARLIER: +14MAJOR FACTOR: American acquisitions are paying off(Source: Bank reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); TRENDS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); FIBER OPTICS (72%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); SYNDICATED LOANS (58%) BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES; CANADA; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: BANK OF MONTREAL (95%); CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF COMMERCE (95%); BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA (84%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (84%); TD BANK FINANCIAL GROUP (69%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%)

TICKER: BMO (TSX) (95%); BMO (NYSE) (95%); CM (TSX) (95%); CM (NYSE) (95%); BNS (TSX) (84%); BNS (NYSE) (84%); RY (TSX) (84%); RY (SWX) (84%); RY (NYSE) (84%); TD (TSX) (69%); TD (NYSE) (69%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (95%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (95%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (84%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (84%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (58%); ROCKY MOUNT, NC, USA (50%) ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (58%); QUEBEC, CANADA (58%) CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2002 



709 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Former I.B.M. Executive Named Xerox Finance Chief
Xerox has hired Lawrence A. Zimmerman, a former I.B.M. finance executive, as its chief financial officer. He was considered an unsung architect of I.B.M.'s restructuring in the 1990's. Xerox has also been engaged in an overhaul.
 Mr. Zimmerman succeeds Barry D. Romeril, one of five former Xerox executives who have been notified that they may be sued as part of a federal investigation into accounting practices. Page C4. 

Combative Witness in Audit Trial
Under cross-examination by prosecutors, a partner with Arthur Andersen testified that the firm destroyed extraneous documents in part so the records could be not used against the firm in litigation. The testimony could damage Andersen's contention that documents destroyed in the Enron case were largely irrelevant. C13.

Vodafone Reports $24 Billion Loss
The wireless telecommunications company Vodafone Group has reported a net loss of almost $24 billion in the year ended in March, largely because of write-downs in the value of the same deals and takeovers that once fueled its growth. World Business, Section W.

An Intriguing Omission by Intel
Intel's release on its second-generation Itanium microprocessor goes to great lengths to compare the chip with its previous Itanium and to a chip from a rival. Missing is any reference to the Intel's own Pentium family of microchips. The omission is intriguing because recent versions of Pentium have shown drastic increases in performance. C4.

Court Broadens Patent Protection
The Supreme Court has given inventors more power to sue rivals for modifying patented products. The patent ruling may prove to be the most significant in two decades. C4.

Costco as a Wine Steward
These days, getting a wine onto the shelves of Costco, the national warehouse club, has become the winemaker's equivalent of getting a book on the Oprah Book Club list. Costco now claims to be America's largest wine retailer with half a billion dollars in sales in 2001. A1.

Crucial Decisions for Vivendi Board
At a board meeting today, directors of Vivendi Universal are expected to reject a plan to schedule another shareholder meeting this year, deciding instead to let two important resolutions die, at least for now. In addition, the company's embattled chairman, Jean-Marie Messier, above, is expected to present options on the disposition of Vivendi's water unit. C6.

Broker Is Sentenced in Stock Fraud
Victor Wang, the former chairman of the Duke & Company, has been sentenced for using his brokerage firm to manipulate share prices and defraud investors. C6.

Consumer Confidence Moves Higher
The Conference Board said its index of consumer confidence edged higher in May, rising to 109.8 from 108.5 in April. Separately, consumer spending increased in April. C7.

The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 122.68 points, at 9,981.58. The Nasdaq slid 9.32 points, to 1,652.17. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 9.27 points, to 1,074.55. C8.

Banks Agree to Help Struggling Fiat
The Italian conglomerate Fiat and its banks have reached agreement on a major financial plan. World Business, Section W.

Competing Towers for Philadelphia
Two developers are both working to build office towers in downtown Philadelphia. But sublease space downtown is at an all-time high, and vacancy rates for office space have also risen. Commercial Real Estate. C6.

Two Trading Charts Omitted
Because of technical difficulties, charts for daily trading in index and stock options do not appear today.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,981.58 down 122.68Nasdaq composite -- 1,652.17 down 9.3210-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.13% down 0.01The euro -- $0.9291 up 0.0084The dollar -- 124.47 yen down 0.20 Graph tracks the daily closing price of Xerox shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); WITNESSES (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PATENT LAW (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (86%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (86%); PATENTS (86%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); SENTENCING (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); AUDITS (75%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); TAKEOVERS (73%); SALES FIGURES (73%); MICROPROCESSORS (71%); COMPUTER CHIPS (71%); ACCOUNTING (70%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (68%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (68%); BOOK CLUBS (67%); CONSUMER SPENDING (66%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (66%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (63%); WINERIES (63%); RETAILERS (61%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (55%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (94%); XEROX CORP (93%); VIVENDI (82%); VODAFONE GROUP PLC (70%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (94%); XRX (NYSE) (93%); VIV (PAR) (82%); VIV (BIT) (82%); VOD (NASDAQ) (70%); VOD (LSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (82%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (70%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%) SIC7373 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2002 



710 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Generational Shift: Brokaw Announces He'll Retire in '04

BYLINE:  By JIM RUTENBERG and BILL CARTER

 BODY:
Signaling the start of a generational change among the television networks' news anchors, NBC yesterday named Brian Williams, the 43-year-old cable newscaster, to succeed Tom Brokaw at the end of 2004 as the anchor of its nightly news broadcast.
 Mr. Brokaw, 62, who led NBC to dominance among the nightly newscasts, became the first of the three current network anchors to announce his departure. Dan Rather, 70, of CBS and Peter Jennings, 63, of ABC are negotiating new contracts. 
 Mr. Williams said he had been dreaming of becoming an anchor since he was a boy. Page C1. 
The anchor job has become one of the most stable postings in television. NBC is the first network in nearly two decades to announce a successor to its main anchor -- a position that some say has diminished in influence over the years with the growth of cable news but that still holds tremendous importance, especially at times of crisis. That was reaffirmed when the three anchors were praised for providing a calming presence in the coverage of the Sept. 11 attacks.
Mr. Brokaw, who began anchoring the newscast in 1982 with Roger Mudd and became the sole anchor a year later, said he would continue to contribute to NBC News after he steps down, probably with a variety of larger-scale projects.
The changing of the guard has long been expected, accompanied by questions about whether the new anchors will be able to hold the nation's attention as have Mr. Brokaw, Mr. Jennings and Mr. Rather.
Mr. Williams, who is the anchor of a cable newscast that is shown on both MSNBC and CNBC, could face a difficult time filling the shoes of Mr. Brokaw. Mr. Williams has drawn mediocre ratings on cable television and does not have the level of hard news or international experience in the field that Mr. Brokaw and the other network anchors had when they took over their positions.
Mr. Rather covered the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, the Vietnam War and the resignation of President Richard M. Nixon; Mr. Jennings has extensive experience in Europe and the Mideast. He gave up-to-the-minute dispatches from Munich during the 1972 Olympic hostage crisis and served seven years in Beirut. Mr. Brokaw covered Watergate, the assassinations of Robert F. Kennedy and Anwar el-Sadat, and the collapse of the Soviet Union.
On the other hand, Mr. Williams, whose new deal with NBC is for seven years, has spent most of his time behind an anchor desk, including the last six on cable. He started his career in local news before working for two years in the NBC Washington bureau. His level of experience -- much of it spanning the biggest economic boom in United States history and President Bill Clinton's relationship with Monica S. Lewinsky -- is similar to that of his contemporaries at the other networks.
As if to answer questions about whether Mr. Williams has the proper reporting credentials, NBC executives said that he would spend the next two years working on in-depth journalism, conducting one-on-one interviews and reporting abroad, as well as filling in for Mr. Brokaw when the anchor goes on assignment. Financial terms of his new deal were not disclosed.
NBC executives and Mr. Brokaw said Mr. Williams was the best candidate for the job. The executives said Mr. Williams was part of a new generation of anchors who could not possibly have had the same level of experience as the people they will succeed.
"Brian came of age in the go-go 90's," said Neal Shapiro, the president of NBC News. "The big stories were not Vietnam and civil rights. There weren't those kind of continual stories of upheaval and revolt. In the last nine years, the big story was the booming economy."
What Mr. Williams does have, Mr. Shapiro said, is a gift for live coverage and a high number of hours in the anchor chair -- more than Mr. Brokaw, Mr. Jennings and Mr. Rather had when they became evening anchors. He has been the anchor on MSNBC during several major news events, including the crash of TWA Flight 800 near Long Island in 1996 and the September attacks.
"He's had the experience of anchoring nonstop, around the clock, unscripted," Mr. Shapiro said. "You've had to have been at a cable network to have that kind of experience."
Mr. Williams said he felt well prepared for the job. Asked about his foreign experience, he said he had made 21 international trips while covering President Clinton.
For some time, there has appeared to be a dearth of obvious candidates for the main anchor jobs, which forced NBC to perform a delicate balancing act in its negotiations with Mr. Brokaw and Mr. Williams. Mr. Brokaw had not firmly decided to continue as anchor. 
Knowing that Mr. Brokaw's departure would probably cause its newscast to fall to second place behind ABC's "World News Tonight," NBC wanted him to remain in his position. Yet NBC was anxious not to lose Mr. Williams, who had been waiting to move up, to a competing network. In fact, CBS was said to have its eye on Mr. Williams. That prompted NBC to solidify its succession plans.
With Mr. Williams now out of the picture, CBS News has two potential internal successors to Mr. Rather in the correspondents Scott Pelley, 44, and John Roberts, 45.
At ABC, if Mr. Jennings were to leave tomorrow, which is not expected, ABC could put the anchor Charles Gibson in his job. But at 59, Mr. Gibson is not much younger than Mr. Jennings, and is not necessarily in a position to remain the "World News Tonight" anchor for very long. Like CBS, ABC will probably have to pick from a younger group of candidates who have had nowhere near the experience of Mr. Jennings. David Westin, the president of ABC News, said that did not concern him..
"Everybody says, 'Oh, no, it will never be the same again,' " Mr. Westin said. "And then we evolve and a new generation grows up with a new group of people."
Mr. Brokaw agreed. "When Dan took over, when Peter took over, and when I took over, these same questions were raised about whether we were worthy successors," Mr. Brokaw said yesterday during a news conference. "We're still a very important, indeed, viable component in the news and information sector."
Mr. Brokaw, who now makes more than $7 million a year, has long been considered the one most likely to leave the evening news game first because of his robust life outside NBC. He is an avid outdoorsman who keeps a ranch in Montana.
Last year, he toyed with the idea of stepping down. His decision to take a 10-week vacation in the summer prompted wide speculation that he would indeed depart.
He said yesterday that he did "go through my own personal decision- making process about how I wanted to live the rest of my life."
But the events of Sept. 11, he said, caused him to think harder about staying. He said he had decided to continue as NBC's main anchor through the 2004 election to see how the terrorist attacks will affect the political process.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tom Brokaw during a news conference yesterday in New York where NBC announced that he would step down as its main news anchor.; Tom Brokaw, left, interviewing George W. Bush in July 2000. (Associated Press)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (85%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); RESIGNATIONS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (75%); HOSTAGE TAKING (70%); ASSASSINATION (68%); TERRORISM (67%); OLYMPICS (60%); VIETNAM WAR (50%) ADVERTISING AND MARKETING 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (94%) SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING; 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (64%); BILL CLINTON (52%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%); RICHARD NIXON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); LEBANON (79%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (72%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2002 



711 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: The True Purpose of Welfare Reform 

BYLINE:  By Peter Edelman; Peter Edelman, a professor of law at Georgetown University Law Center, resigned his post as an assistant secretary at the Department of Health and Human Services in protest against the 1996 welfare law.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The welfare measure signed into law by President Bill Clinton in 1996 expires this year, so a new law is needed to extend or modify it. The House of Representatives, acting mainly along party lines, has passed a bill that is pretty much what President Bush asked for; it will soon be taken up by the Senate.
 How have Americans been doing under the 1996 law? Federal welfare money is given to states as a block grant, so each state is different. Nonetheless, the broad story of families who left welfare has two major variants. One story is of the women who found jobs -- the great majority of welfare payments go to single mothers -- and the other is about those who are worse off. The latter are a remarkably large group; on any given day, something like 40 percent of former welfare recipients, or well over a million women, have no job, an indication of the 1996 law's failure as policy. The women who found work are the basis for the claim that the 1996 law is a huge success, but even there, one has to ask whether their families have escaped from poverty and what will happen to them if the current recession lasts. 
 The 1996 law got some women to look for work who might otherwise not have done so, and it got the numbers down by pushing people off the welfare rolls or not letting them on. But the big post-1996 fact was the increase in the number of jobs -- many areas had unemployment rates below 3 percent.
Employment of never-married mothers shot up, although that did not necessarily mean they escaped from poverty. (Today they make an average of just under $8 an hour working about 35 hours a week, which would add up to around $14,000 annually.) The earned-income tax credit helped a lot, adding about $4,000 to the income of a minimum-wage worker with two children. But averages are deceiving. If your job was, for example, a 20-hour position as a school crossing guard for $107 a week, or if you kept cycling in and out of jobs, you and your children were still threatened with homelessness and hunger. The main lesson of the 1996 law is that having a job and earning a livable income are two different things.
The Bush administration and its Congressional allies chose to ignore this fact and instead are going the get-tough route. Perhaps hoping to create a wedge issue by making the Democrats appear soft on the work issue, they looked at the fewer than two million parents still on welfare (down from nearly five million in the early 90's) and said, in effect: "These loafers are still on the rolls. We have to get after them."
They proposed even tougher work requirements that had nothing to do with actually helping people find a job. Sad to say, they were abetted by a few Senate Democrats, led by Senators Evan Bayh and Thomas Carper, who have made a similar proposal the centerpiece of their own bill.
Who are the two million adults still on the rolls? Many are there temporarily while they look for work and need no push to do anything. The remainder are the hard cases -- the ones who have less education, less work experience and more personal problems. Rigid requirements are the exact opposite of the individualized approach they need.
The House bill would effectively require states to spend large amounts of precious welfare funds on make-work jobs programs. (Such programs were not adopted by a single state on a statewide basis, as was possible under the 1996 law -- probably because workfare is expensive and does not prepare people to find real jobs.) The pittance added for child care by the House is laughable -- $2 billion over five years. If the Bush work proposals become law, states will be able to comply only by dismantling child care and other supports now in place.
The Senate should reject the Bush proposals and adopt more sensible reforms. Low-wage workers would be greatly helped, for example, if the use of federal funds by states to supplement the incomes of those who have left welfare to work were not subject to time limits. Welfare rules should be rewritten so they do not hinder people from attending community college. Financing for child care and other supports should be substantially increased. All benefits for legal immigrants should be fully restored. And responsible fatherhood could be encouraged if the federal government promoted ways to help young, less educated African-American men, who were left out during the economic expansion of the past decade, find work. A set of proposals developed by Senators Edward Kennedy, Paul Wellstone and Jon Corzine includes many of these suggestions.
The repoliticized welfare debate, put in play by the White House, ignores the purpose of welfare policy, which should be to help the poorest families earn enough to lift more children above the poverty line. The further tragedy is that it diverts attention from the broader issue: the millions of Americans whose earnings from work, while not technically placing them in poverty, leave them struggling daily to make ends meet. 
I just returned from a visit to Britain, where Prime Minister Tony Blair has committed himself to eradicating child poverty. The major weapons his government is using are a series of income supplements that are more sophisticated versions of our earned-income tax credit. I wish the common ground he and President Bush have found in fighting terrorism would extend to ending poverty. It would be a refreshing change from the rhetoric we heard on the House floor during the recent welfare debate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); WOMEN (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); LIVING WAGE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); TAX LAW (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (71%); MINIMUM WAGE (70%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); MARRIAGE (70%); SINGLE PARENTS (69%); HOMELESSNESS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2002 



712 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: Bismarck's Lessons for Bush 

BYLINE:  By Josef Joffe; Josef Joffe is editor of the German weekly Die Zeit and an associate at the Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard.

DATELINE: HAMBURG, Germany 

 BODY:
Europeans love to reach for the imagery of the B-movie Western when criticizing a new American president -- especially if he is a Republican from Texas. Accordingly, President Bush is portrayed as a dolt on a stallion, emptying his six-shooter every which way, mainly at peace and global understanding.
 Never mind that in Hollywood Westerns the cowboy almost always protects the weak and punishes the willful, thus upholding the European knight's code of chivalry. What the caricature obscures is Mr. Bush's skill in designing a post-cold war diplomacy for the last remaining superpower. His strategy, in fact, owes much to the hub-and-spokes approach pioneered more than a century ago by one of Europe's greatest diplomats, Chancellor Otto von Bismarck of Germany. 
 What is the critical strategic problem for the United States, a nation that dwarfs all others in terms of "hard" (military) and "soft" (cultural-economic) power? It is how to prevent the rest of the world from unifying against No. 1. After unification in 1871, Bismarck's Germany found itself in a similar position in Europe: more powerful than any other country, yet threatened by the resentments of all.
The United States is Bismarck's Germany on a global scale. Its power is more overwhelming than that of any previous hegemon since the Roman Empire. For example, the entire world spends about $800 billion on defense; the United States accounts for about $380 billion of the total, more than the spending of the next 14 nations combined. Its "soft" power is also unmatched; in industries as diverse as movies and airplanes, its products dominate the world, as do its universities.
In 1877, Bismarck decreed an "iron rule" for German foreign policy: to work out a "political situation in which all the powers need us and are kept as much as possible from forming coalitions against us." What is Mr. Bush doing? No pontificator he, but look at how his diplomacy is unfolding.
Start with Russia, where Mr. Bush celebrated his new friendship with President Vladimir Putin last weekend. For 40 years, Moscow and Washington haggled over every nuclear missile in their silos. Now, they are slashing their nuclear arsenals by almost two-thirds -- with a stroke of the pen. Still more important is the symbolism: Here is Mr. Bush pinning the badge of equal superpower status on Mr. Putin. Since Sept. 11, the United States and Russia have formed a close partnership.
The appropriate metaphor is that of the United States as the hub and all the other major players as spokes converging on Washington. President Bush is now assiduously polishing these spokes.
He has turned Russia into a key ally. He has edged India into the American orbit even as he enlists the aid of Pakistan in America's war on terrorism. He has toned down the rhetoric against China -- with the result that Beijing is no longer throwing wrenches into the American works. Ditching an earlier policy of neglect, Washington has offered itself as indispensable mediator in the Middle East. Finally, Mr. Bush has begun mending fences with Europe by flattering France and Germany, the key players in the European Union, with well-choreographed visits to Berlin and Paris last week.
The name of this game is to have better relations with the spokes than they have with one another. Of course many of these countries have formed alliances of their own; the European Union is an example, as is Asean. But they have not allied themselves against the United States, nor has Russia or China created such an alliance.
What's missing in this strategy is a sense that the prescription is more than just self-serving. When Europeans berate Mr. Bush for his unilateralism, they are really asking the United States to become more responsive to their needs and concerns -- to be more a seeker of consensus than a builder of coalitions. Indeed, when they listen to Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld proclaim that the mission determines the coalition, and not the other way around, they hear: "Don't call us, we'll call you." This riles their souls, and rightly so.
So the Bush administration might think about adding a bit of Franklin Roosevelt, Truman and Eisenhower to its Bismarck formula. These three presided over the golden era of United States diplomacy. They took care of American interests by taking care of the interests of others. Above all, they built international institutions -- like the United Nations, NATO, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund -- that embedded America's welfare in the well-being of the rest of the world. Today, however, the United States is more likely to rend than to mend the international fabric.
For example, the United States recently imposed punitive tariffs on steel imports for transparent domestic reasons. It also increased government farm subsidies by two-thirds over the next decade. Neither measure is good for international trade, but what's even more puzzling about both of them is that they run against the self-interest of the United States, the world's largest exporter.
So the best rule for an unchallenged No. 1 is this: Do good for the rest of the world in order to do well for yourself. This is not the counsel of woolly-headed sensitivity training, but of hard-nosed realism. Bismarck would undoubtedly approve.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tim Grajek) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); POLITICS (78%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2002 



713 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: City Seeks To Close Gap By Using Disaster Aid 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
The Bloomberg administration wants to use some of the federal aid that has been earmarked to help New York recover from the attack on the World Trade Center to close the city's roughly $5 billion budget gap, officials said yesterday.
 Mark Page, the director of the city's Office of Management and Budget, told a City Council hearing that administration officials were seeking permission from the White House and Congress to use some of the $21 billion in promised federal disaster relief to help the city balance its budget in the fiscal year beginning July 1. 
 "I would love to get my hands on some amount of the money being spent or proposed to be spent in Lower Manhattan to balance New York City's operating budget in the near term," Mr. Page said. He said in an interview later that the city was seeking $650 million, of which it hoped to use about $200 million as budget relief. 
It represents a change in course for the administration, which until recently took pains to make the point that the federal disaster aid would be used only to reimburse the city for expenses stemming from the attack and to help rebuild Lower Manhattan -- expenses outside the city's year-to-year operating budget. And as recently as February, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg scoffed at the idea that the federal government would give the city money to help it close the budget gap, calling it "relatively unlikely." 
The city is using a two-pronged argument in its negotiations with Washington. 
Officials say the city spent roughly $650 million in costs associated with Sept. 11 that are not eligible for reimbursement from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, like the base salaries of police officers and firefighters and other city workers who responded to the attack and the subsequent recovery operation and cleanup. 
And it is arguing that the city lost several billion dollars in tax revenues, at least $650 million of which is directly attributable to the attack: $220 million in lost property taxes from the buildings that were damaged or destroyed, $281 million in lost taxes from the closing of businesses in Lower Manhattan, and $149 million in lost hotel taxes and sales taxes and lower hotel property values stemming from the decline in tourism.
Daniel L. Doctoroff, the city's deputy mayor for economic development and rebuilding, wrote a letter to the Federal Emergency Management Agency last week in which he said that aside from the initial $1.5 billion in overtime and equipment costs stemming directly from the attack and the cleanup, "New York City's most immediate need is $650 million to compensate for lost revenues." 
Amy Call, a spokeswoman for the federal Office of Management and Budget, said that the emergency management agency did not reimburse localities for lost revenue. But she said that the agency was working to find ways to reimburse the city for expenses it incurred as a result of Sept. 11. 
"We are working with New York, and FEMA has been very flexible with the city and will work with city and state and Congressional leaders to ensure that the president's commitment to New York is fulfilled," she said.
If the $650 million were counted as a disaster-related expense, it could be allocated administratively. If it were to be considered compensation for lost revenue, Congress might have to get involved, which could make it less likely to happen. 
To balance the budget, Mr. Bloomberg is relying in part on $400 million in aid or savings that requires state actions, $400 million that requires federal actions and $500 million that requires actions from the city's unions. 
Mr. Page said yesterday that not all of that $1.3 billion will be in place by next week, when the City Council plans to pass a budget. But while the city looks likely to get all the state aid, he said, only about half of the federal aid is in place so far: $150 million from an agreement to let the city refinance its debt, and $50 million in greater flexibility in how the city spends community development grant money and welfare funds. He said he hoped the city could use $200 million of the federal disaster relief to make up the difference.
As for the $500 million in savings being sought from the city unions, Mr. Page said that none of it was in place yet. "We're hopeful that it will happen," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); MAYORS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PROPERTY TAX (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (77%); SALES TAX (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CITIES (77%); TAX LAW (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (75%); TERRORISM (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (65%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TERRORISM; TAXATION 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (58%) FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%) COOPER, MICHAEL; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2002 



714 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 150 words

HEADLINE: Rock Star With a Cause 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "No Mosh Pit, This, but Some Enthusiasm for Aid" (Accra Journal, May 22):
 I have never been particularly impressed with rock stars taking up various causes, but I must give Bono of U2 his due. 
He has singlehandedly cast a spotlight on debt forgiveness -- as well as AIDS prevention and increased trade -- for the poorest of the world's countries, a subject that has received scant attention here in the United States before his crusade began nearly three years ago. After all, who in Congress or the Bush administration was really committed to this subject before Bono began badgering people? 
 While it may not be fashionable for pop stars to mingle with politicians, even the coldest cynic has got to be impressed with a man who has been able to build coalitions with both the Clinton and Bush administrations and has gotten results.

JAMES P. FREEMAN
Stamford, Conn., May 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POP & ROCK (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TRENDS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); AIDS & HIV (55%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: BONO (88%) FREEMAN, JAMES P; BONO (MUSICIAN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (91%); GHANA (91%) AFRICA

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2002 



715 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: JUSTICES EXPAND STATES' IMMUNITY IN FEDERALISM CASE 

BYLINE:  By LINDA GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 28 

 BODY:
The Supreme Court, its justices as bitterly divided as ever over where to draw the line between federal and state authority, today expanded the concept of state sovereignty to shield states from having to answer private complaints before federal agencies.
 The 5-to-4 decision came in the term's most important federalism case, a dispute between the Federal Maritime Commission, which enforces the federal Shipping Act, and the state-owned Port of Charleston, S.C. A cruise line went to the commission to complain that the port had wrongfully denied a berth to one of its ships. 
 In ruling that the port was constitutionally immune from having to defend itself before the commission, the court significantly enlarged the scope of the 11th Amendment, which grants immunity to states from private lawsuits. The Supreme Court had never before applied the 11th Amendment, which limits "the judicial power of the United States," beyond the courtroom to immunize states from the actions of executive branch agencies. 
As have other federalism rulings during the last seven years, this decision revealed a deep disagreement among the justices about the nature and source of governmental authority in the United States.
The lineup was a familiar one. Justice Clarence Thomas wrote the majority opinion, which was joined by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justices Sandra Day O'Connor, Antonin Scalia and Anthony M. Kennedy. The dissenters were Justices Stephen G. Breyer, John Paul Stevens, David H. Souter and Ruth Bader Ginsburg.
Justice Thomas began his analysis with this statement: "Dual sovereignty is a defining feature of our nation's constitutional blueprint." The states "did not consent to become mere appendages of the federal government" when they joined the union, he said. Excerpts, Page A18. 
Justice Thomas said the fact that the Federal Maritime Commission "does not exercise the judicial power of the United States" -- and so did not appear as a textual matter to come under the terms of the 11th Amendment -- was irrelevant to the deeper question of "whether the sovereign immunity embedded in our constitutional structure and retained by the states when they joined the Union" extended to proceedings before federal agencies.
In holding that it did, Justice Thomas found that "the pre-eminent purpose of state sovereign immunity is to accord states the dignity that is consistent with their status as sovereign entities." 
Federal agency proceedings, which are conducted by a special cadre of administrative law judges, share "strong similarities" with federal court proceedings, he said, adding that in any event the Constitution's framers, "who envisioned a limited federal government, could not have anticipated the vast growth of the administrative state."
In his dissent, Justice Breyer said the majority had adopted a rule that "lacks any firm anchor in the Constitution's text" or in the framers' understanding of the kind of system they were creating. 
Whether the framers anticipated the rise of the administrative state, Justice Breyer wrote, "they did write a Constitution designed to provide a framework for government across the centuries, a framework that is flexible enough to meet modern needs."
Justice Breyer said the decision and the court's other recent federalism rulings "set loose an interpretive principle that restricts far too severely the authority of the federal government to regulate innumerable relationships between state and citizen." He said the majority had rejected the "basic understanding" reached during the New Deal era that the constitutional system requires "structural flexibility sufficient to adapt substantive laws and institutions to rapidly changing social, economic and technological conditions."
The three other dissenters signed Justice Breyer's opinion, which he took the unusual step of reading from the bench this morning. The dissenters took what amounted to a public pledge to remain unreconciled to the majority's course.
"Today's decision reaffirms the need for continued dissent," Justice Breyer said, "unless the consequences of the court's approach prove anodyne, as I hope, rather than randomly destructive, as I fear."
The immediate consequences of the ruling, Federal Maritime Commission v. South Carolina Ports Authority, No. 01-46, are likely to be well short of drastic, as Justice Thomas noted. The principle the court announced applies only to administrative actions initiated against states on the basis of complaints brought by private parties. The commission itself could still begin an investigation, reach a judgment and go to court in the name of the federal government to get the judgment enforced. 
While not disputing that analysis, Justice Breyer said the removal of private parties from administrative actions against states would require a compensatory "forced growth of unnecessary federal bureaucracy," which he said "undermines the very constitutional objectives the court's decision claims to serve."
In fact, the case found justices on both sides arguing from positions where, apart from the issue of federalism, they are rarely found. Those in today's majority usually insist on tying constitutional rulings to the document's text or to historical tradition. But in this instance, the 11th Amendment appeared with its reference to the "judicial power" to look in the opposite direction, and Justice Thomas conceded that "in truth, the relevant history does not provide direct guidance for our inquiry."
That left the dissenters free to complain that such terms as "constitutional design" and "system of federalism," found throughout the majority opinion, "do not actually appear anywhere in the Constitution," as Justice Breyer noted.
In fact, the same majority moved away from constitutional text earlier in this sequence of federalism decisions, in a 1999 ruling called Alden v. Maine that extended the states' sovereign immunity from suit beyond the federal courts -- the only courts referred to in the 11th Amendment -- to include state courts as well. The Alden decision held that state workers, already barred from federal court by earlier rulings, could not go to state court to sue their state employers for violations of federal labor law, either.
The court has also ruled that states are immune from suit by their employees under the Americans With Disabilities Act and the Age Discrimination in Employment Act. In a new case, the State of Nevada recently asked the court to decide whether states are immune from suit under the Family and Medical Leave Act. The justices will decide shortly whether to hear that case, Nevada Department of Human Resources v. Hibbs, No. 01-1368.
As it did in the case decided today, the Bush administration is defending the application of federal law to the states.
The decision today upheld a ruling last year by the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, in Richmond, Va. That court said that a proceeding before the Federal Maritime Commission "walks, talks and squawks very much like a lawsuit" and should be treated as one for 11th Amendment purposes.
While many of the nation's ports are run by state agencies, New York's is not. The court ruled last year that because the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey is the product of an interstate compact, it is not an agency of either state and so is not eligible for immunity under the 11th Amendment.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A complaint by the Tropic Sea's owners has resulted in an important Supreme Court ruling on federalism. (Alan Hawes/The Post and Courier)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMUNITY (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); ADMIRALTY LAW (90%); SOVEREIGN IMMUNITY (89%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (77%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (76%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (76%); JUDGES (73%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (73%); CRUISES (71%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL MARITIME COMMISSION (57%)

PERSON: CLARENCE THOMAS (79%); DAVID SOUTER (58%); STEPHEN BREYER (58%); RUTH BADER GINSBURG (58%); ANTHONY KENNEDY (58%); ANTONIN SCALIA (58%); JOHN PAUL STEVENS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2002 



716 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 29, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1497 words

HEADLINE: NATO Formally Welcomes Russia as a Partner 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: ROME, May 28 

 BODY:
NATO formally welcomed Russia today as a participant but not a full-fledged member -- in the organization created 53 years ago to contain Soviet power and expansion. The agreement signed here today at an extraordinary meeting of the leaders of NATO's 19 member nations marked what the Bush administration hopes is another major step in its effort to lock in Moscow's shift toward the West.
 The accord, a capstone to President Bush's six-day tour of Europe and Russia, will for the first time give Moscow a role from the outset in NATO discussions about a fixed variety of topics, including nonproliferation, crisis management, missile defense and counterterrorism. 
 But in an indication that the North Atlantic Treaty Organization's members are still not fully convinced that Russia has fully renounced aggression and cast its lot with Europe, Moscow will not be a member of the alliance or be bound by its collective defense pact, in which all members pledge to come to each other's defense if necessary.
Nor will Russia have a veto over NATO decisions or a vote in the expansion of its membership, including NATO's plans to invite in new nations -- almost all of them once part of the Soviet bloc -- at a meeting in Prague in November. As an indication of how far Moscow has traveled away from its past, it appears to have dropped objections to admitting even former Soviet Baltic republics. 
Mr. Bush, attending the session at a NATO air base under extraordinary security before heading to the Vatican to meet the ailing Pope John Paul II, said today that "Two former foes are now joined as partners, overcoming 50 years of division and a decade of uncertainty."
Mr. Bush said today's formal agreement to create a NATO-Russia Council reflected the calculation that cooperation with the world's second largest nuclear power is "more likely to be achieved by welcoming Russia west."
The new council does not replace the North Atlantic Council, the body where NATO usually makes its decisions. If no consensus is reached in the new 20-nation council on the specific issues it is allowed to address, then NATO's 19 members reserve the right to withdraw the contentious topic from discussion.
Russia's president, Vladimir V. Putin, fresh from President Bush's three-day visit to Moscow and St. Petersburg, clearly reveled in the speed at which he had been able to negotiate both nuclear reductions and a position of respect in NATO's councils. 
"The significance of this meeting is difficult to overestimate," said Mr. Putin, noting that a few years ago, the idea of Russia sitting at NATO councils "would have been, simply, unthinkable."
But Mr. Putin, who at his first meeting with Mr. Bush a year ago publicly raised the possibility of full Russian membership in NATO, also injected a note of caution. 
"Being realists, we must remember that relations between Russia and the North Atlantic alliance have been historically far from straightforward," he said. Although Russia was not admitted as a full member -- and may never be -- Mr. Putin said that "we must understand this Rome Declaration represents only a beginning."
Some NATO officials have voiced concern that the new council is not substantive enough for Mr. Putin, and are now expressing relief that he has not only accepted it, but is also selling it hard to a still-skeptical Russian military and security apparatus. But the same NATO officials say that the more the alliance becomes a political talking shop instead of a military alliance, the better it could be for Moscow.
The new arrangement between Russia and the alliance replaces a 1997 accord, negotiated during the Clinton administration, that allowed Russia to participate in discussions with NATO only after all of the alliance's members had reached agreement on a common position.
Russia complained that the arrangement was a sham, because it made it appear that Moscow went along with policies it did not agree with and in fact had had no voice in shaping. The most contentious of these was the 1999 war with Yugoslavia over Kosovo, which prompted Russia to suspend its participation in discussions with NATO.
The 19 members of the organization concluded that the arrangement did too little to reflect both Russia's concerns and its influence.
Meeting with reporters this afternoon, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell agreed that while Russia and the United States were reducing their nuclear arsenals drastically, and cooperating in NATO, each country was maintaining "a hedge."
"We'll always have a hedge against uncertainty in the future, in our military forces in the nuclear weapons that the United States will continue to retain," he said. "It's a hedge against the future, because there are other nations that possess nuclear weapons or might come to possess nuclear weapons."
But Secretary Powell said that neither Russia nor NATO was now "looking for conflict."
"I don't think we're going to see a rerun of this movie," he said, referring to the cold war. "The movie didn't play well the first time, and I see no reason why any future Russian leader with a state that is only roughly 55 percent of the size of the old Soviet Union would find it in its interests in any way to try to act in an aggressive manner."
In fact, NATO's secretary general, Lord Robertson, was first among the parade of leaders to bury the cold war yet again, saying that "what's happening today turned completely on its head everything we've lived with up to now, because here is the Russian president as a equal." 
Gerhard Schroder, the chancellor of Germany, said here today, "On the basis of our vast joint interests, we can conduct policies that guarantee security on the one hand and economic prosperity on the other."
That is clearly not the unanimous view in Moscow, where some of Mr. Putin's critics, mostly hard-liners, believe he is capitulating to the former enemy of the Warsaw Pact. They said as much in some conservative publications today, while the daily Kommersant gave voice to a view gaining some currency also in Washington that "Despite all of NATO's activity, the need for its existence prompts more and more doubt."
While Mr. Bush was in Russia, Mr. Putin made his calculations quite clear. The Russian leader does not want to talk endlessly about defense or nuclear weapons or arms control; he wants to talk about Russia's entry into the World Trade Organization, exporting Russian airplanes and making its broken, low-tech industries globally competitive. 
"The president of Russia has to want to be a member of the W.T.O.," Mr. Putin said on Saturday when he and Mr. Bush fielded questions from students at St. Petersburg State University for an hour. But, catching himself with the recognition that opening up Russia's markets would put some Russians out of a job, he added, "on conditions acceptable to Russia."
Still, Mr. Putin has surprised many in Washington -- including Secretary Powell and Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser -- with his willingness to allow the West the kind of military latitude that would have been unthinkable a few years ago. After the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, Mr. Putin allowed the United States to use military bases in former Soviet republics in Central Asia, and to train troops in Georgia to move against Chechen rebels based in the north of that former Soviet republic.
"This is a different Putin," Ms. Rice said the other day in a brief interview, after she had been invited along with the president to Mr. Putin's dinner at his home, and on a dinner cruise on the Neva River. "It's been very warm. This has not been your ordinary summit."
The new NATO-Russia Council was designed in part to allay Russian fears not only about alliance activities, but also its expansion. 
"You can't surround the Russians with more and more NATO members and do nothing to ease the pain," one senior administration official said.
Secretary Powell said today that Russia would not be involved in "collective security arrangements," but that it would focus on "becoming a more active member of the Euro-Atlantic community." The arms control agreement signed by Mr. Bush and Mr. Putin on Friday in the Kremlin and today's accord should alleviate concerns in Moscow, Secretary Powell suggested. 
Before he left the summit to see the pope this afternoon, Mr. Bush said: "I will tell him that I am concerned about the Catholic Church in America, I'm concerned about its standing. And I say that because the Catholic Church is an incredibly important institution in our country." Mr. Bush said he would also tell the pope that he appreciated his "leadership in trying to strengthen the Catholic Church in America."
Mr. Bush and the pope met for 20 minutes in private with no aides and no translators.
Later, Mr. Bush introduced the pope to several of his staff members, including Karl Rove, his political adviser; Ari Fleischer, his press secretary; Ms. Rice; and Secretary Powell. When Mr. Bush rose to leave, the pope said, "God bless America."

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia before signing the NATO accord. (Reuters)(pg. A1); The leaders who placed their signatures on the accord between the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and Russia, shown below right, celebrated yesterday at the end of a group photo session at their meeting. In the top row, from left, were Prime Minister Costas Simitis of Greece, Prime Minister Peter Medgyessy of Hungary, Prime Minister David Oddsson of Iceland, Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker of Luxembourg, Prime Minister Wim Kok of the Netherlands, Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik of Norway, Prime Minister Jose Durao Barroso of Portugal and Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar of Spain. In the bottom row, from left, were President Aleksandr Kwasniewski of Poland, President Vaclav Havel of the Czech Republic, Lord Robertson, the NATO secretary general; Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy; President Jacques Chirac of France; President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia; President Bush; and Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain. (Photographs by Associated Press); With a smile, Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy, center, signaled yesterday that it was time for President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, left, and President Bush to stop shaking hands at the meeting in Rome of Russia and the member nations of NATO. (Agence France-Presse); After the NATO-Russia meeting yesterday, President Bush and Pope John Paul II met privately at the Vatican without aides or translators. (Pool photo)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (93%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (79%); VETO (79%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (69%); RELIGION (64%); COUNTERTERRORISM (54%); TERRORISM (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (89%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (70%); TONY BLAIR (59%); DAVID ODDSSON (59%); JACQUES CHIRAC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); ROME, ITALY (92%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); ITALY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); HOLY SEE (90%); ICELAND (79%); GREECE (79%); NORWAY (79%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); HUNGARY (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); POLAND (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); NETHERLANDS (59%)

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2002 



717 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 117 words

HEADLINE: CURRENTS: WHO KNEW?; 
Custom-Made Sofas, Soft on Your Wallet

BYLINE:  By MARIANNE ROHRLICH; Information on sales and secret sources may be sent to rohrlich@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
 Looking for an economically priced traditional sofa? In Brooklyn, Nova Zembla offers custom-made sofas by Cisco Brothers, a Los Angeles manufacturer, at 30 percent less than at many stores. 
There are 60 styles of frames to choose from. The sofas can be upholstered or slip-covered, drawing on more than 2,000 fabrics, including wools, cottons, chenilles and leathers. There are three choices of cushion fillings. Prices vary, but expect a 60-inch love seat to start at $970 and an 84-inch sofa at $1,200. Many are available as sofa beds. All floor samples are on sale at a further 10 percent to 40 percent off. Nova Zembla is at 117 Atlantic Avenue (Henry Street); (718) 222-5705. MARIANNE ROHRLICH

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FURNITURE 

ORGANIZATION: NOVA ZEMBLA (BROOKLYN STORE) 

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002 



718 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 149 words

HEADLINE: Relief for Sept. 11 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Senate Panel Votes to Include More People in Sept. 11 Relief" (news article, May 23): 
 Providing mortgage and rental assistance to those financially hurt by the attacks with the limitation that 75 percent of the applicant's income must come from business conducted in Manhattan will do nothing to alleviate the financial crisis experienced by an airport worker in Queens, a construction worker in the Bronx or a storage company in Brooklyn. 
This type of Manhattan-centric aid is missing the point. There was a ripple effect after Sept. 11 extending deep into all boroughs that has affected working-class people. The fact is that the most vulnerable New Yorkers -- low-wage workers, immigrant workers and their families -- are those most in need as a direct result of the attacks.

SABA WAHEED
New York, May 23, 2002

The writer is a policy analyst at the Urban Justice Center.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); HIJACKING (88%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TERRORISM (73%); WRITERS (73%); FOREIGN LABOR (70%); AIRLINES (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (55%); IMMIGRATION (52%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

PERSON: WAHEED, SABA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002 



719 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 2; Circuits; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1520 words

HEADLINE: Youth Will Be Served, Wirelessly 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER 8. LEE 

DATELINE: KIRKLAND, Wash. 

 BODY:
JOSH BUESSELER, an industrial designer with spiked hair and half-inch-wide ear piercings, stood before a room filled with teenagers and flipped through a series of his sketches. 
 He held up a drawing of a cellphone holder designed like a garter belt. 
 The teenagers grimaced. 
"Is a guy supposed to wear that?" one of them asked. 
"It looks like something for a prostitute," another chimed in. 
Every word was caught by a video camera and fed to a television in a nearby room, where Mr. Buesseler's colleagues, executives from a small cellphone company based here called Wildseed, parsed and diced the responses. 
"Oh, did you see that?" said Eric Hull, the leader of Wildseed's user interface team, who was watching the teenagers as they rated various shades of blue plastic. "She was going to vote for B until the other girl made a cutting comment." (The D shade of blue won out; B, the teenagers said, was too pastel.) 
Analyzing teenagers' attitudes and desires has long been a crucial strategy of the fashion and entertainment industries. Get it wrong and your product can fall out of favor, like Levi's jeans. Get it right, like the clothing chain Hot Topic, and you can build a successful company on teenagers' buying power. 
Now, as Wildseed's focus-group session demonstrates, cellphone manufacturers are maneuvering in that same tricky terrain, with the goal of making cellphones that are designed expressly for teenagers. Some companies are retooling existing phone models, adding features and looks that appeal to young users. Others, like Wildseed, are designing phones for teenagers from the ground up. 
The companies have their sights set on young people for good reason: since only 38 percent of American teenagers have cellphones, the market has plenty of room for growth. 
Yet with product development cycles of up to two years, designing a phone for the rapidly changing tastes of American teenagers can be as tricky as doing a kickflip on a moving skateboard. 
There are three basic concerns: what the phones look like, what they do and what they cost. But design issues are often more nuanced, because for teenagers, more than for most adults, a cellphone is not just a means of communication. It is an accessory, a fashion statement, an instant messenger, a toy, a social prop. It is a symbol of independence second only to the car, many teenagers say, and an extension of their personality. 
"Individuality is really important with phones," said Kyle Fox, 17, a high school student who was chatting with friends outside a Seattle mall. "I don't want the same phone as everyone else." 
Nokia has a line of what it calls "expression" phones, which have spawned secondary products like customized faceplates, add-on lights and downloadable ringer tones. 
While Nokia has something of a head start in the teenage phone market, other companies are quickly catching up, both in fashion and in function. Motorola's v120 cellphone comes with a built-in FM radio, and Wildseed is also planning to offer a phone with a radio and headset. One of Samsung's phones has AOL Instant Messenger. Other companies offer phones that allow the user to compose ringer tones, and Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications has phones with cameras and multimedia messaging. 
Wildseed is planning to customize its phones around popular fashion themes. The phones will have "smart skins" -- replaceable taco-shell-shaped faceplates with computer chips that allow teenagers to change functions as well as the phone's appearance. There are graffiti-splattered faceplates for skateboarders, for example, that come with edgy urban ringer tones and gritty icons. (The phones are expected to be introduced later this year by different carriers, among them, Leap Wireless, a company that has focused on marketing to teenagers.) 
Wildseed says its research shows that for teenagers, a desirable cellphone is not about smaller, lighter, sleeker. What teenagers say they want from a cellphone ranges from the concrete (music, messaging and games) to the abstract (style, personality and individuality). 
Teenagers have also shown concern about cost -- both of phones and calling plans. But as the popularity of high-priced athletic footwear demonstrates, teenagers will spend money on things they really want. The nation's 34 million teenagers spent an average of $104 a week -- their own money, or their parents', or a combination -- last year, according to Teenage Research Unlimited, a company that tracks teenagers' spending habits. Cellphone companies want to increase their share of that spending. 
Equipped with video cameras, computers and questionnaires, sociologists and marketers are trying to figure out how teenagers live and how cellphones fit into that life. 
What do they talk about in their instant messages? How do they listen to music? What kind of emoticons do they use? How do girls with long fingernails dial on their cellphones? Do teenagers sleep with their phones? 
Wildseed has boiled down teenage existence into a Venn diagram with three circles: entertainment, relationships and fashion. Eric Engstrom, the company's chief executive, pointed to where the three circles overlap. "Any product that can position itself here will be successful with teens," he said. "That's where cellphones have to be." 
Cellphone companies see teenagers as potential allies. One reason is that teenagers eagerly embrace and understand new technologies. They can help redefine the cellphone in a way that the business market cannot. The companies are looking for the mobile equivalent of the Princess phone, the popular light-up pastel phones from the 1960's. 
While adults adopt new technologies largely for convenience, teenagers adopt new technologies largely for socializing, said Michael Wood, a vice president at Teenage Research Unlimited. As an example, he cited the explosive success of instant messaging, which is only now making inroads into the corporate environment. 
Understanding how cellphones have become a social prop for teenagers is crucial in designing a phone for them. Teenagers will play games to occupy their time, or talk even if they have no one to talk to. Nicole Zupan, 16, another teenager at the Seattle mall, said she sometimes pretended to talk on a cellphone. "People don't know you're not talking to anyone," she said. "You say things like: 'Yeah, I'll meet you tonight. What time?' " 
Responding to the desire of teenagers to be seen (and not just heard) on their cellphones, Wildseed has designed its phone to be a showpiece with buttons that flash in time with the music on a built-in radio. This becomes a visual way for teenagers to demonstrate to others that they are engaged. 
Wildseed says that it has developed these and other features by listening to teenagers. For the last two years, the company has regularly summoned teenagers to focus groups where they are paid $20 to lounge around, eat pizza, play Xbox video games and give their thumbs up and down on various proposals. 
A cellphone that used Morse code messaging, for example, drew blank stares from teenagers. But another feature, "airtexting," drew enthusiastic endorsements. To airtext, teenagers can type a text phrase like "call me" into their phone and wave it back and forth in the air. As the phone moves, a row of blinking red lights on one end leaves the phrase trailing behind it. Some teenagers said that the airtext feature would be great to use in nightclubs. "That's tight," was one girl's endorsement. 
The company has also learned that too much customization risks alienating teenagers, Mr. Hull of Wildseed said. For example, ringer-tone composers are interesting but do not appeal widely to teenagers. "That puts too much pressure on kids to be artists," Mr. Hull said. "They don't want to be artists. They don't want to be completely unique." 
In other words, the formula for appealing to teenagers is prepackaged individuality. 
Despite the flurry around new cellphones, experts say that the key to attracting a teenage market may ultimately center less on the devices than on economics. 
Teenage cellphone use in the United States lags far behind the 80 percent penetration of some European and Asian countries in large part because of the six-month and one-year contracts that American carriers insist on for the best rate plans. Many parents are reluctant to allow teenagers to sign up for cellphone contracts because they fear that they will run up big phone bills. 
Plans that do not require contracts are expensive. Prepaid plans, which are popular in Europe, often cost about 50 cents a minute in the United States. For month-to-month plans, many cellphone carriers require a $1,000 or $1,500 deposit. 
"Teens see cellphone technology as empowering," said Nalini P. Kotamraju, a doctoral candidate in sociology at the University of California at Berkeley who has done research at the University of Surrey in England comparing cellphone use by American and European teenagers. "But in the U.S. in order for teenagers to get cellphones, they need to have a parent sign a one-year contract. There is nothing empowering about that." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: TEEN SPIRIT -- Teenagers try Wildseed cellphone prototypes at a focus group session. One prototype, right, includes a game screen. Below, Sony Ericsson's combined phone and camera. (Above, Peter Yates for The New York Times; lower right, Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. G6); CHILD'S PLAY -- Cellphone makers are designing features to attract teenagers, including "airtext" flashing messages, from Wildseed. (pg. G1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (86%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (72%); CHILDREN (67%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (66%); FOCUS GROUPS (65%); PROSTITUTION (56%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; PUBLIC OPINION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: WILDSEED (CO) 

PERSON: LEE, JENNIFER 8 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002 



720 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 848 words

PERSON: Carol Willis 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
Putting Skyscrapers Back Into the Bigger Picture

BYLINE:  By JOYCE WADLER

 BODY:
DARN those news people. 
 Carol Willis, founder, director and curator of the Skyscraper Museum, has been hearing from them constantly since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, and they want the same thing: a sound bite, as Ms. Willis seems to explain it, though she does not use the words. They are too short and sweet, one suspects, for Ms. Willis. She is of the academic tradition, a student of history. She takes the long view. Also the long answer. But let us go back to those annoying reporters. 
 "They all ask the same questions: 'What did they represent?' " Ms. Willis says, talking a mile a minute and referring, of course, to the trade center towers. "They want to hear, 'icon of capitalism.' That's too simplistic, too empty a description. They were not commercial. They were not speculative office buildings. Most skyscrapers are built by private investors; these were built by government. They want to hear about height, the hubris of height. The World Trade Centers were only briefly the tallest buildings in the world, though it was, by far, the world's largest office building." 
It will take a while longer to get to this news reporter's query, and as we wait you might want to check out the view from Ms. Willis's temporary 13th-floor office near Wall Street. Not much of a view and not much of an office: two little rooms.
Or perhaps you might contemplate Ms. Willis. Age 53. Face seemingly free of makeup. Blond hair pulled back with two clips, giving her the look of a schoolgirl who can't be bothered with fuss. A fuchsia blouse, suggesting somewhere in this serious architectural historian and author ("Form Follows Finance: Skyscrapers and Skylines in New York and Chicago") there is a sense of fun.
But wait, what is this, a verbal space opening up ahead?
In we zoom with our query: is there a future for skyscrapers given the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center? As a student of skyscrapers whose organization co-sponsored a talk on the World Trade Center earlier this spring, does Ms. Willis feel such buildings are safe?
"If you tried to build a building that could withstand that, I think the reports from FEMA and others are showing this, nothing could have," Ms. Willis says. "It's not the skyscrapers' fault for being there. What if the attacks had been on the Super Bowl stadium on Sunday? Would we say, 'How can we get together in public spaces again?' "
Into the theme song, and you better believe it is a positive one, of the Skyscraper Museum.
"We shouldn't ban or blame skyscrapers. They make sense as an urban building type. They're part of the culture, the lore of New York -- its density, its diversity, the energy that attracts us here. When people around the world picture New York, it's the skyline." 
Were you even aware that there was a Skyscraper Museum in New York?
Do not be ashamed if you were not. Ms. Willis herself admits the majority of visitors have been tourists who have stumbled upon it. The Skyscraper Museum, for the six years of its existence, has not had a permanent home. It has depended on the kindness of landlords; bouncing, rent-free, from 44 Wall Street to 16 Wall Street to 110 Maiden Lane. The stipulation with rent-free, Ms. Willis explains, is having to vacate within 30 days.
There is also another problem: the attacks of Sept. 11 have left the Skyscraper Museum homeless. It will, finally, have a permanent home at the end of this year, on the ground floor of the 38-story Ritz-Carlton hotel and condominium apartment tower, at Battery Park City. This will also be rent-free.
Ms. Willis must write a heck of a proposal, she is told.
She breaks into a grin.
"I think what I'm good at is not selling people who just aren't interested, but people who have a little glimmer in their eye. Those people I can do it within zero to 60, to use drag-racing terms."
Does Ms. Willis race cars? "No, but I'm from the Midwest."
Ms. Willis grew up in the small town of Bratenahl, Ohio, on the outskirts of Cleveland. Her father was a graphic designer, her mother a dress designer. They divorced when Ms. Willis was small, and Ms. Willis does not like to recall this part of her life. She does remember seeing her first skyscraper, Terminal Tower, in downtown Cleveland, and her pleasure in urban life. She majored in art history at Boston University, working her way through college. She had kind of an interesting job, Ms. Willis blurts out, as a go-go dancer. There is immediate post-blurt regret. It paid better than waitressing, she says. She was modestly dressed. That is to say, she wore the same short skirts everybody wore then. 
TODAY, Ms. Willis and her husband, Mark Willis, a banker, live in a skyscraper with a view of the Empire State Building.
Does she believe there is now fear about skyscrapers?
Anecdotal evidence suggests some skittishness, Ms. Willis says, but she thinks vacancies have to do with the economy and a surplus of office space. And in time, she says, there will be less nervousness. San Francisco, after all, was "leveled" in the earthquake of 1906. People rebuilt. 
In history, you take the long view.

GRAPHIC: Photo: CAROL WILLIS (Ruby Washington/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); HISTORY (89%); TERRORISM (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (73%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (73%); WRITERS (70%); OFFICE PROPERTY (68%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002 



721 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Shortage of Nurses Hurts Patient Care, Study Finds 

BYLINE:  By DENISE GRADY 

 BODY:
In hospitals with low numbers of registered nurses, patients are more likely to suffer complications like urinary infections and pneumonia, to stay in the hospital longer and to die from treatable conditions like shock or gastrointestinal bleeding, researchers report today.
 "I estimate that hundreds or, perhaps, thousands of deaths each year are due to low staffing," said Dr. Jack Needleman, an economist at the Harvard School of Public Health and the lead author of a study on staffing published today in The New England Journal of Medicine. 
 The nation has a serious nursing shortage, with 126,000 jobs unfilled, 12 percent of capacity, says the American Hospital Association. The shortage is a result of hospital mergers, layoffs and heavy workloads. Many hospital nurses shifted to other work. The average salary, $46,000 a year, has not increased much in a decade. Even though hospitals are trying to hire again, nurses are no longer available. 
The new study, paid mostly by the government, is one of the largest to look at care in relation to staffing. The findings were based on a computer analysis of the discharge records of more than six million patients at 799 hospitals in 11 states in 1997. Five million had medical problems. One million had surgery.
The research sought to find out whether there was a correlation between how patients fared and the levels of registered nurses and two other types of workers with less training, licensed practical nurses and aides. 
Registered nurses receive several years of training and usually hold associate's or bachelor's degrees. Practical nurses usually have high school diplomas and a year of training. Aides have less training. 
The researchers found that for some aspects of care registered nurses made a difference. In hospitals with higher nurse staffing, stays were 3 to 5 percent shorter, and complication rates 2 to 9 percent lower than in hospitals with lower staffing. No relation was found between patients' well-being or length of stay and the levels of aides or practical nurses.
Registered nurses, Dr. Needleman said, are "the eyes and ears of the hospital" for judging whether a patient is recovering normally. 
"If something is going wrong," he said, "they can catch the signs early, before the problem gets worse." 
But problems cannot be spotted early, he added, if nurses do not have time to observe their patients.
The president of the American Nurses Association, Mary E. Foley, said, "We're very pleased that another large set of research data has validated what the American Nurses Association has been saying since the mid-90's, that there is a direct effect on the outcome of patient care when you have enough nurses."
As an example, Ms. Foley said, pneumonia and blood clots in hospitalized patients often result from immobility, and nurses help prevent such complications by turning and repositioning bedridden patients, encouraging them to exercise and cough and helping others to get up and walk around. Even if nurses themselves do not do those things for patients, they have the training and experience to know when such help is needed and to ensure it is provided. 
A senior vice president for policy at the American Hospital Association, Carmela Coyle, said: "The study suggests that registered nurses are key and critical to insuring good patient care. This is something that hospitals and patients have known for some time."
Ms. Coyle said she feared that the study would lead some people to assume that health care problems could be solved by laws that require specific staffing ratios, a move that hospital trade groups have long resisted. She called such a reaction overly simplistic.
"What you really need to look at," Ms. Coyle said, "is much more than the number of nurses and the number of patients. How many of the nurses have 20 years of experience or more, and how many are right out of school? What technology is there to support them? How sick are the patients?"
Dr. Needleman said his group made its study because the government sought to fill a large research gap on the connection between nurse staffing and quality of care. In the early 1990's, nurses testified to Congress that patients in some hospitals were endangered by managed-care companies that were trying to save money by replacing registered nurses with less skilled and lower paid workers. Congress asked the Institute of Medicine to study the issue. In a report in 1996, the institute said there was not enough data to draw conclusions and called on the government to finance studies.
Dr. Needleman's is one of those. It measured staffing two ways, by the proportion of nursing hours provided by each type of worker and by the number of hours a day the types of workers devoted to each patient. 
For registered nurses, the average number of hours a day per patient came to eight. The hours included not only time at the bedside, but also time spent preparing medication, writing chart reports and consulting colleagues or family members.
The averages include intensive care units, with one nurse for every one or two patients around the clock.
"There were some hospitals, that if I were going to them as a patient, I would be very concerned," Dr. Needleman said. "The hospitals at the very low end of our sample had as little as two hours, and some at the high end had 16 hours."
When the study compared the hospitals in the top quarter with those in the bottom quarter on the proportion of nursing time from registered nurses, it found that the medical patients, as opposed to surgical patients, in the bottom quarter had stays 3.5 percent longer, 9 percent more urinary infections, 5.1 percent more gastrointestinal bleeding, 6.4 percent more pneumonia and 9.4 percent more shock or cardiac arrest. 
In addition, the death rate was 2.5 percent higher for "failure to rescue," meaning that the patients died from conditions that might have been reversed if they had been treated in time. Those conditions include pneumonia, shock or cardiac arrest, upper gastrointestinal bleeding, sepsis or a blood clot. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NURSES & NURSING (96%); HOSPITALS (92%); LABOR SHORTAGES (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (89%); PNEUMONIA (89%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (78%); BLOOD DISORDERS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (72%); WRITERS (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; NURSING AND NURSES 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (57%); AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (57%) NEEDLEMAN, JACK (DR); HARVARD SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH 

PERSON: GRADY, DENISE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002 



722 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: Bosnia Tries to Stitch Its Unwieldy Fabric Back Together 

BYLINE:  By DANIEL SIMPSON 

DATELINE: NOVI SEHER, Bosnia and Herzegovina, May 26 

 BODY:
When classes break at the two elementary schools in this ethnically mixed village in central Bosnia, children from both schools play on the same strip of gravel. But not with each other.
 Ten years ago, before Bosnia's brutal war set neighbors at each other's throats, they would have shared the same classrooms. Now, Novi Seher's schoolhouse has been split in half -- one building for Croatian children, another for Muslims -- and there is no immediate prospect of reuniting it. 
 "What has happened here is a tragedy," said Mehmet Meckic, principal of the Muslim school, whose pupils come from families that have returned to the village after fleeing Croatian militiamen in 1993. "I don't know how to resolve it. It's going to be very difficult and very slow."
The rest of Bosnia has not fared much better since the peace accords brokered in Dayton, Ohio, in 1995 divided the Balkan country of about 3.6 million down wartime front lines, creating a Muslim-Croatian federation and a separate Serbian republic.
That the Serbian part was carved out by systematic killings and the eviction of its Muslim inhabitants has made cooperation between the two entities virtually unthinkable so far. The search for compromise is further burdened by Serbian and Croatian intransigence born of the feeling that they, too, were victims of "ethnic cleansing," though in far fewer numbers.
Yet despite the prevailing gloom among many impoverished Bosnians, there are at last signs of progress in the vast Western project to forge a multiethnic democracy from the failed state sustained since 1995 by a drip-feed of $5 billion in foreign aid and tens of thousands of NATO-led peacekeepers.
"In three or four years this country should be able stand on its own feet," said Wolfgang Petritsch, the Austrian diplomat who spent three years administering Bosnia as high representative. His successor, the British politician Paddy Ashdown, assumed the job on Monday. 
The progress is slower than many, particularly the United States, would like. But Mr. Petritsch, who under the Dayton accords has sweeping powers to enact laws and remove officials, has begun to build the institutions needed to keep a state going.
He has cajoled Western-backed coalitions that won elections in 2000 in both the Bosnian-Croatian Federation and the Bosnian Serb Republic into passing reforms that were unfeasible under the rule of nationalists, who fomented and fed off Bosnia's ethnic divisions for a decade as Yugoslavia was ripped apart.
Under considerable pressure, all parties have backed constitutional changes designed to guarantee equal rights, and public sector job opportunities, for all three ethnic groups in both parts of the country.
In the short term, the need to represent Serbs, Croats and Muslims proportionately in each layer of government will bloat Bosnia's already unwieldy political structure.
But diplomats stress that the mere act of persuading sworn enemies to cooperate could generate momentum -- provided the politicians credited with showing initiative are not punished in elections next October for failing to bring down the unemployment rate, which is 40 percent in the federation, and even higher in the Bosnian Serb Republic.
A crackdown by Mr. Petritsch on the main Croat nationalist party, the H.D.Z., has stripped it of funds and influence. But the process has not been mirrored in the Bosnian Serb Republic. The S.D.S. party of Radovan Karadzic, the former Bosnian Serb leader who remains on the run after being indicted for war crimes, is popular among disillusioned Bosnian Serbs.
The S.D.S. is likely to regain power this fall, and although the downfall of Slobodan Milosevic, the former Yugoslav leader, has deprived it of support from Belgrade for folding part of Bosnia into a Greater Serbia, it could still have a destabilizing effect.
"We could be back to square one or worse come October," warned Mark Wheeler of the International Crisis Group, an influential private research institute based in Brussels.
The risk of election violence means that NATO's plans to cut its Stabilization Force of 19,000 foreign soldiers by a third will not be carried out until later this year. Their number has fallen steadily from the 60,000 sent in to police the peace that NATO powers brought about by force.
Patrols have helped restore freedom of movement, making possible the return of considerable numbers of the two million refugees created by a war that claimed 200,000 lives.
Some 200,000 people have returned to areas where they are an ethnic minority, although few Muslims have settled in the hostile mountains of eastern the Bosnian Serb Republic, whose lush slopes are littered with abandoned fire-bombed houses. Refugees often reclaim such homes only to resell them.
There are occasional surprises, however. In Srebrenica, synonymous with the worst massacre in Europe since World War II, a 12-year-old named Dzeneta said she was happy in her school even though she is the only Muslim there. "I love my friends here and they love me," she said.
But efforts to restore multiethnicity to this corner of Bosnia have come at a price.
Years after bullets and shrapnel tore holes in many of Srebrenica's buildings, repair work has barely begun; in part because international officials withheld reconstruction aid until the municipality did more to encourage Muslims to return. Resentment runs deep among many of its Serbian inhabitants, who question why anyone would want to.
"I wouldn't come back here if I had the choice," said Drago Tesic, a 52-year-old Serb who works for the local council. "People here are scavenging through garbage bins, no matter what their origin. I've seen it with my own eyes."
Jobs are what is needed most to persuade people to return from the cities and to give those who live in outlying areas a sense of future.
To create them in an economy still recovering from Communism and war, Bosnia needs foreign investment. But it will have to work hard to attract it.
Mindful of this, and the objective of using eventual European Union membership for Bosnia as the new tool of international influence, Mr. Ashdown has made strengthening the rule of law and attacking organized crime his priorities.
If all goes according to plan, he will be the last foreigner to administer Bosnia before handing power to its citizens. But that would still not spell an end to the West's engagement here.
"For Bosnia, as a classic weak state for quite some time to come, we should talk more about an entry strategy into European integration processes rather than an exit strategy for us," Mr. Petritsch said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At left, Bosnian Muslims at a ceremony in Visegrad last week honoring thousands of Muslims killed there in 1992. Above, construction work continues on a mosque in the Serb-controlled town of Srebrenica. Years after the war and 1995 peace accord, signs of an easing of ethnic tensions are finally appearing. (Photographs by Associated Press) Map of Bosnia and Herzegovina highlighting Novi Seher: Muslims and Croats uneasily share the village of Novi Seher.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); FAMILY (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); RELIGION (76%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (74%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (68%); POLITICS (66%); ETHNICITY (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (64%); CIVIL RIGHTS (62%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%) CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS 

PERSON: SIMPSON, DANIEL; PETRITSCH, WOLFGANG 

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (70%) OHIO, USA (79%) BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); CROATIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); SERBIA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (58%); AUSTRIA (53%) BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002 



723 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: The G.O.P. Is Confident, Maybe Too Confident, About the Race 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

 BODY:
The consensus among Republicans as they wrapped up their convention yesterday is that George E. Pataki is a juggernaut on course to become the fourth New York governor in a century to win a third term. His approval ratings are higher than ever, even among Democrats, and his war chest is brimming with at least $16 million, twice what either of his two Democratic opponents has raised.
 But the race this year differs greatly from the contests he won in 1994 and 1998. Even his most confident supporters acknowledge that the governor can take nothing for granted in a state where registered Democrats outnumber Republicans five million to three million. 
 Not only has the state grown even more Democratic in the last eight years, but also the economy, particularly upstate, has not rebounded and continues to limp along, giving his opponents a fat target. Democrats also hope the governor might be vulnerable in the city's suburbs, where school property taxes are expected to rise significantly this fall, in part because of a drop in state aid.
In 1994, Mr. Pataki won because of a recession and public fatigue with former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, polls showed. A huge turnout upstate among Republican conservatives and an apathetic showing from New York City liberals gave him a narrow victory. By 1998, the governor was riding one of the greatest economic booms in history and faced a weak candidate from the Democrats. He won with 54 percent of the vote.
This year, though, the two Democrats seeking to oppose Mr. Pataki are attractive candidates -- state comptroller H. Carl McCall, the first black man to hold statewide office, and a former federal housing secretary, Andrew M. Cuomo, the son of the former governor and a sharp-elbowed campaigner.
What's more, the state economy has just begun to come back from a recession that started last year and worsened after the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11. State revenue has shriveled. The governor and Legislature patched together a budget that only averted deep cuts by spending $3 billion in savings and one-time revenue, money that will not be there next year.
Against that backdrop, G.O.P. politicians and consultants at the Republic State Convention yesterday, while cocky, were not crowing about victory yet. "It's the third inning of a baseball game, so we can't say we are going to win," one of the governor's advisers said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. "But you can say we are winning 13 to 1."
Democratic strategists, on the other hand, say Mr. Pataki's position is not as secure as it seems. They maintain that recent college polls giving the governor sky-high approval ratings and saying he would trounce either Democrat by a 2-to-1 ratio do not reckon whether those polled are likely to vote. More sophisticated surveys of likely voters would show a tighter race, they say.
In addition, like most elected officials, Mr. Pataki has enjoyed a bounce in popularity since the terrorist attacks, as New Yorkers have rallied around their elected leaders. That effect may fade as voters start to focus on issues closer to home, among them property taxes, the poor performance of some schools and a lack of well-paid jobs.
"Elections are not decided in May," said a spokesman for Mr. McCall, Steven Greenberg. "Voters don't start paying attention to the election until it gets closer."
For the Democratic candidate, there are two key questions: how big will the Democratic margin be in the five boroughs, where the party has a five-to-one advantage, and how badly will they lose in the suburbs? The Democrats need to pull as many urban voters out to the polls as possible and hold their own in Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester and Rockland Counties. They also need to break even in Buffalo and Erie County.
For Mr. Pataki, the task is not only to get upstate Republicans to come out in great numbers once again, but also to persuade Democrats in the city to cross over and support him. His strategists believe that if he can capture a third of the vote in the city, he will win overall. "What you always had to do as a Republican in this state is compete for Democratic votes," an adviser to Mr. Pataki said.
The governor has labored hard to do that in the last year, courting Spanish-speaking voters of New York City and securing the support of several important Democratic labor leaders. On the stump, he talks as much about providing health insurance to the poor and revamping harsh drug laws as he does about cutting taxes and welfare rolls. "He's come more to the center," said Robert Davis, the Erie County Republican chairman. "That plays well in urban communities."
In addressing the convention yesterday, Mr. Pataki avoided any blatantly partisan attacks and emphasized the "unity" that has characterized politics since the terrorist attacks. After his speech, the governor said, "I think people who have not, in the past, traditionally, been willing to look at Republican candidates are now taking a look." 
Mr. Pataki runs a slight risk of losing the conservative wing of his party. Gun enthusiasts are angry with him for passing a ban on assault rifles. Fiscal conservatives say he has borrowed too much and allowed government spending to grow faster than inflation. Those voters might choose to stay home or cast a protest vote for a third-party candidate.
Still, the leaders of the Conservative Party are likely to give Mr. Pataki their endorsement at their convention next week. The party chairman, Mike Long, said, "There are more things we agree with than we disagree with him on." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); EDUCATION FUNDING (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); PROPERTY TAX (67%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (63%); TERRORISM (62%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (62%); BASEBALL (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002 



724 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Hispanic networks hone an edge in a race for TV ad dollars.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
AS advertisers begin deciding where to spend more than $7 billion for commercial time ahead of the fall television season, some networks are feeling less anxious than their competitors, and not because they have prescriptions for extra-strength Xanax.
 Executives from the two big networks that cater to Spanish-speaking viewers -- Telemundo and Univision -- say they think that new demographic data and a revamping of how the Latino TV audience is measured will help them outperform their English-language counterparts in what is known as the upfront market. 
 Wall Street analysts estimate that the two networks could sell $800 million to $900 million in commercial time before the 2002-03 season starts, far above the estimated $700 million to $725 million they sold during last year's upfront. That would equal the estimates for upfront ad sales for the two smallest mainstream broadcast networks, UPN and WB. The expected increase -- between 12 and 28 percent -- would significantly outperform the increases of 3 percent to 6 percent anticipated by the English-language broadcast networks, which also include ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC. 
"Some may still continue to ignore the market, but there are enough who could stand to spend more on advertising to Hispanics: retailers in larger markets, makers of packaged goods, companies that sell to younger families," said Michael J. Russell Jr., an analyst at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in New York who follows the advertising and broadcasting industries.
"Hispanics have a tendency to be more brand loyal," he added, referring to research findings, "so advertising to them could be more effective." That is an important consideration in tough times, when ad dollars are scarce.
Marketers are increasingly getting the message about Hispanic purchasing power.
"We have been, I guess you could say, a little bit slow to the gate, but our goal is to build a long-term relationship with this consumer," said Michelle Fedurek, vice president for media services at Wendy's International in Dublin, Ohio. For the first time, Wendy's is devoting part of its national ad budget to campaigns in Spanish.
"We are involved in the upfront as we speak," Ms. Fedurek added. "Conversations have begun with both the big networks."
Previously, Wendy's advertised to Hispanic consumers by running ads in 27 local markets. Now, the company is spending an estimated $10 million on national television and radio commercials as well as on ads in stores, all created by the Vidal Partnership in New York.
Wendy's is sponsoring two campaigns for the Hispanic market. One serves "to introduce our brand to this consumer," Ms. Fedurek said, "because research showed us Hispanics don't really know who Wendy's is, but once they do they're willing to try us, and like us." The other campaign is centered on the 2002 World Cup and the matches to be broadcast by Univision.
Telemundo and Univision, however, still face formidable obstacles in grabbing a larger share of ad dollars. Many mainstream national advertisers remain reluctant to speak directly to a market that they perceive as linguistically and culturally complicated. And the overall upfront market, which will begin in earnest as soon as this week, could prove to be a sluggish one for all networks as they worry whether the uneven economy will discourage marketers from spending more than they did last season.
This year, the Spanish-language networks have three new negotiating chips. The 2000 census has provided their sales forces with detailed analyses of demographic data elaborating on the rapid growth of the Hispanic population, which increased to 12.5 percent of the total from 9 percent in 1990.
In addition, the company that measures TV ratings, Nielsen Media Research, is putting in place methods that are meant to measure the Latino viewership more effectively. The hope among executives at Telemundo and Univision is that the refinements will increase ratings for their shows, making them more desirable to advertisers.
Finally, the recent acquisition of Telemundo by NBC, which is part of General Electric, is expected to stimulate interest among advertisers that until now confined their pitches to English-language networks.
"There is still a need for learning about what the market is," said Steve Mandala, executive vice president for sales at Telemundo in New York, because "the only way our market gets percentage and dollar-volume growth is through that educational effort being successful."
"There are no guarantees," he added, "but we feel very confident" about the fall season.
NBC is seeking to interest its client roster in Telemundo with cross-network ad packages and promotions. For instance, Maria Celeste Arraras, a well-known personality on Hispanic television, was hired as the anchor of a new newsmagazine show on Telemundo, "Al Rojo Vivo," and is being asked to contribute to NBC News programs like "Dateline."
Ms. Arraras and her show are "a focal point" of the Telemundo upfront sales initiatives, Mr. Mandala said.
Joe Mandese, the editor of Media Buyer's Daily in New York, a newsletter published by Primedia, said: "The Hispanic market is still somewhat of its own market, but it is making a bridge into the general marketplace." That shift would substantially help Telemundo and Univision, he added.
"Agencies were not used to buying this because they didn't know how to evaluate Spanish-language television alongside 'Anglo' television," Mr. Mandese said. "But the Hispanic networks have done a great job marketing themselves by saying, 'These are the demographics who buy your clients' products, and in some instances they're more important than the general market' " because many Latino families tend to be younger and larger than other American families.
Univision, which is the leader in both ratings and revenue in the Latino TV market, is intensifying its efforts to counter Telemundo's aggressive game, aiming at categories like computers, financial services and prescription drugs that have spent relatively little for Hispanic television.
"Our job is to deliver the information, to prove what we're saying," said Tom McGarrity, co-president for Univision network sales in New York for Univision's owner, Univision Communications. 
"We've had upfronts in the last four or five years where we've been able to outperform our English-language counterparts," he added. "We don't see any reason why we won't be able to do that this coming year."
In addition to the Univision network, Univision Communications also owns a smaller broadcast network, TeleFutura, and a cable network, Galavision. The company also operates online media and a music division, the Univision Music Group, which "we may be putting into our upfront deals," Mr. McGarrity said.
One sign of the growth in the Spanish-speaking consumer market is that 5 of the 30 pages in this week's issue of the trade publication Brandweek carry articles describing Hispanic campaigns by marketers like American Honda Motor, the California Milk Processor Board, Coca-Cola, PepsiCo and Wal-Mart.
"The Hispanic consumer is important for all of us going forward," Ms. Fedurek at Wendy's said. "Now that we have begun this relationship on a national basis, we're looking to continue."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wendy's is one of the companies turning to ads on Spanish-language networks in the hope of reaching the growing Hispanic population. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (91%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (89%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); RETAILERS (74%); RADIO ADVERTISING (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); PACKAGED GOODS (70%); BRAND EQUITY (64%) TELEVISION; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (54%); VIDAL PARTNERSHIP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: TELEMUNDO; UNIVISION 

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (51%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (51%)

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%); OHIO, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (88%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING 

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002 



725 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: Down to Raucous Wire, Osbournes in MTV Deal 

BYLINE:  By BILL CARTER 

 BODY:
The Osbournes, stars of the most surprising success on television this year, agreed to terms of a new contract with MTV yesterday that will extend for at least 20 more episodes the real-life adventures of the raucous, crude-talking family headed by the longtime rocker Ozzy Osbourne.
 But the deal did not come easily. In fact, the negotiations over "The Osbournes," MTV's biggest hit series ever, turned out to be every bit as bizarre as the series itself, featuring such plot developments as demands by the Osbournes for a new house and lifetime psychotherapy for the family's herd of cats and dogs; promises by the Osbournes to sign the contracts in blood; and offers from competing networks looking to steal the show away from MTV. 
 In the end, the deal, the biggest for a series in MTV's history, is being valued at $5 million to $7 million by MTV and more than $20 million by agents representing the Osbournes. It left all parties satisfied that they will be able to cash in on the latest reality television show to redefine what success means for a television network. The new episodes will begin in the fall. 
Over several months of negotiations, the Osbournes and their representatives played a game of hardball -- combined with elements of three-card monte -- that MTV executives said no one at the network had seen before, even with MTV's long experience dealing with unconventional talent.
MTV executives said the Osbourne camp changed the terms of the deal almost daily. Different representatives appeared on several occasions, all claiming to speak for the Osbournes. "We had three different sets of negotiations going on at various times," one senior MTV executive said.
The network's executives were so exasperated at some points that even the show's spectacular success seemed to have a downside.
A month ago, at a lunch meeting of MTV executives in Miami, an aide delivered the best ratings news of the show's first year. More than eight million viewers had seen the eighth episode of "The Osbournes," the biggest audience for a cable show this year. But when the eye-popping figures were placed in front of one senior MTV executive, he responded with a single word: "Ugh."
Thrilled as they were with the show's success, the executives knew that the huge ratings would only create more leverage for the Osbournes.
The battle for leverage led MTV to respond in some unusual ways, at one point blocking the show from beginning its run on MTV's outlet in Britain and thus preventing Mr. Osbourne from gaining publicity when he was about to embark on a concert tour there. MTV insisted later that until a new deal was signed, it would not begin playing a music video by the Osbournes' teenage daughter, Kelly, in which she sings a slickly produced version of the Madonna song "Papa Don't Preach."
The ban on the video was meant to send a message to Sharon Osbourne, the family matriarch and business manager, who had set a goal of creating a music career for Kelly. The message, as explained by one MTV executive, was: "She has to sign the deal."
Indeed, securing a signature from Ms. Osbourne, by all accounts a master of unpredictable brinkmanship -- and extraordinary chutzpah -- throughout the negotiations, became an almost quixotic quest for MTV executives. The reason was understandable: MTV relied on what it called an agreement but never actually had a signed deal with the Osbournes for the first season, leaving the network open to bigger demands during the recent negotiations because of the show's unanticipated success.
Almost daily, Ms. Osbourne promised to sign a deal for next season but repeatedly put off doing so. "I don't think she's ever going to sign," one executive said last week.
Van Toffler, the president of MTV, made it clear that she would have to. "I told her: 'Sharon, I love you, but we're not doing handshakes anymore,' " he said.
He added that when he pressed Ms. Osbourne, she playfully replied that she would indeed come through. "She told me she was going to sign in blood," Mr. Toffler said.
Several executives said they thought for a time that there might not be a second season of "The Osbournes."
One executive said of the talks, "I did fear the world would not see any more episodes because it would just at some point self-destruct."
MTV faced a changing roster of Osbourne representatives. Creative Artists Agency, which had handled the Osbournes in the first season, began the negotiations for the second season.
In the midst of those talks, Ms. Osbourne told MTV she was sending in Colin Newman, her longtime British accountant. Then things changed again as the family's lawyers took over.
Finally, Ariel Emanuel, the head of the Endeavor Agency in Hollywood, called MTV to say that he was taking over the deal.
Mr. Toffler said before the deal was finished: "It was confusing because of the bevy of representatives who were all declaring that they knew what Sharon wanted. At this point we don't know which end is up."
Mr. Emanuel, one of the most aggressive agents in Hollywood, said that Ms. Osbourne had called him and that he told her he could make a "precedent-setting deal."
A short time later, MTV got word that the next season of "The Osbournes" was being shopped around to the broadcast networks. "We contacted every network," Mr. Emanuel said. "They were all interested."
At least two broadcast networks were interested enough to commission extensive research into how "The Osbournes" would play as a weekly prime-time series. One network was convinced. "It would have been huge," a senior executive there said. "We were definitely bidding on it. We were led to believe it was available. We had a real plan for how we would put it on."
One plan the Osbourne side suggested would have allowed MTV to run episodes after they had first run on a network.
Infuriated, MTV's lawyers responded with a letter to the networks saying it held the legal rights to the show and would sue to keep them if the networks persisted. MTV agreed that the ultimate card the Osbournes held was to stop production on the series; according to the initial agreement, they always had the right to do that, if, for example, the family thought that the children were being upset in some way.
But no one really wanted the show to stop production, not with MTV getting its biggest price ever from advertisers on the show and the Osbournes looking at what some people were telling them was an opportunity to become "the MTV version of the Cosby family."
Mr. Emanuel said he intended to create a new economic model, with the Osbournes becoming the equivalent of a studio in controlling all rights to their show. He called for MTV to allow the show to go up for sale in syndication almost immediately, years before a television series normally would.
In fact, the deal struck yesterday will permit the Osbournes to begin selling episodes to local stations for first use in the fall of 2004. But the show made only 10 episodes last season and only 20 more are guaranteed so far for the next. Syndication typically requires 88 to 100 episodes.
The Osbourne camp won the novel right, however, to carve out new episodes from outtakes. MTV agreed to that arrangement, convinced that the real value of the show is in the initial broadcast of the episodes. Reality shows typically do not do well in syndication because the intense interest in them wears out quickly.
Even with the syndication issue mostly resolved, the deal was still hung up for weeks as new wrinkles emerged. Earlier, the network had turned down the demand for pet therapy. But the Osbournes suddenly asked to be able to appear three times a year on shows on other networks. MTV resisted because any show in which the Osbournes appeared as themselves would compete with the MTV show.
Mr. Toffler admitted to be being "at wits' end" on several of these occasions. Still, he never lost his affection for the woman at the center of the talks.
"You've got to love Sharon," he said. "There's something very lovable about her. She has several sides of her brain going at once."
Lovable to an extent. Last week, in negotiations over breakfast at the St. Regis Hotel in Manhattan, Ms. Osbourne, who is no fan of delicate language, unleashed enough colorful and loud invective that she drove all other patrons out of the restaurant, one customer said.
Ms. Osbourne was in England yesterday and her press representative did not respond to requests to speak with her. In her official comment on the settlement as quoted in a MTV release, Ms. Osbourne said, "It's been absolutely bleeping amazing."
And she did in fact finally sign the new deal, Mr. Toffler said, along with the other members of the family, including Ozzy, who used his real name, John Michael Osbourne.
"But it's a faxed copy of the deal," Mr. Toffler said. "So I can't tell if it's signed in blood."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stars of the surprising television success: Ozzy Osbourne and his wife, Sharon, with their daughter Kelly and son, Jack. (Reuters); Van Toffler, the president of MTV, said he was "at wits' end" on several occasions while negotiating a deal for a second season of "The Osbournes. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. C1); Ozzy and Sharon Osbourne at the White House Correspondents Dinner this month. Their new MTV contract involved bizarre negotiations. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); MUSIC (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); DOGS (69%) TELEVISION 

PERSON: CARTER, BILL; OSBOURNE, OZZY; OSBOURNE, SHARON; OSBOURNE, KELLY; OSBOURNE, JACK; TOFFLER, VAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: OSBOURNES, THE (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002 



726 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 296 words

HEADLINE: Oil Prices Drop as Gasoline Supplies Swell 

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Oil prices in the United States fell late yesterday after an industry supply report showed another jump in spare gasoline supplies at the outset of the summer driving season.
 July crude oil futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange jumped 49 cents, to $25.76 a barrel, in the regular session, ending a five-day losing run that had taken prices $4 below the eight-month highs struck earlier in May. 
 Prices then slid more than 60 cents in after-hours trading after the American Petroleum Institute reported that national gasoline stocks rose 3 million barrels, to 218.4 million, in the week ended Friday.
Gasoline stocks are 6 percent higher than this time last year, providing ample supplies to meet the summer holiday driving demand, which was due to hit full stride over last weekend's Memorial Day holiday.
After peaking just below $30 two weeks ago, oil prices have drifted lower as fears ease that simmering violence between Israel and the Palestinians could disrupt supplies from the Middle East, which pumps a third of world oil.
Gasoline futures prices have fallen around 14 percent since early April as strong imports from Europe and sluggish demand for other fuels in a fragile economy have created a large surplus.
Retail gasoline prices, which increased 20 percent from mid-February to mid-April, fell a penny a gallon last week to average $1.39 -- down 32 cents from a year ago and the lowest level for a Memorial Day weekend in three years, the Energy Department said on Tuesday.
This year the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries cartel has been producing at its lowest level in a decade to keep spare supplies from building up. Officials have indicated that the cartel is unlikely to increase supplies when ministers meet next on June 26 in Vienna. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); GASOLINE (93%); FUTURES (92%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (79%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (79%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); CARTELS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); EXPORT TRADE (70%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (83%) AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (69%) UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AUSTRIA (69%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002 



727 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1579 words

HEADLINE: BOXING; 
Going Where Vegas Wouldn't

BYLINE:  By RICHARD SANDOMIR 

DATELINE: MEMPHIS, May 26 

 BODY:
To a national identity that comes from Elvis Presley, the blues and barbecue, local political and business leaders are hoping to add something new: boxing.
 People in Memphis have embraced the heavyweight championship fight between Lennox Lewis and Mike Tyson, which will take place here on June 8. And they do not mince words about the reasons. 
 "It will be the largest-grossing match in the history of boxing and it will bring international attention to us," Mayor Willie Herenton of Memphis said. "It will show America that we can host this kind of event." 
The fight at the Pyramid, a gleaming downtown arena covered by eight and a half acres of stainless steel, is expected to bring more than $30 million in spending to the city. It is likely to fill thousands of hotel rooms here and in the nearby casino-hotels in Tunica, Miss., as well as bring people to local restaurants and generate millions in tax revenues.
This is a bout that even Las Vegas disavowed. Authorities in Texas, Colorado and Georgia also spurned the fight after Tyson bit Lewis's thigh during a melee at a news conference in January in Midtown Manhattan.
Herenton, a lanky former Golden Gloves flyweight champion, chooses not to weigh the morality of playing host to a Tyson fight. "This is primarily a business decision," he said.
Tyson has caused trouble or committed crimes from Las Vegas to Indianapolis to Glasgow. But his notoriety also means that big money follows him.
"Mike Tyson is an industry, like Michael Jackson and Michael Jordan," said Joe Towns Jr., a Tennessee state legislator, who helped steer the fight to Memphis and guaranteed that Tyson would "get a fair shake" if he sought a boxing license.
"We didn't want to have any talk about morality," Towns said.
Neither does the Tyson camp. "Mike knows there's support for him and he will behave 100 percent," said Shelly Finkel, Tyson's manager. "Mike knows he's a business."
To many of the 1.1 million people in the Memphis area, Tyson is less a boxing outlaw than a one-man economic jolt. 
"This is something Memphis deserves," said Demetrius Granderson, assistant manager of a Beale Street gift shop. "You can't say Tyson shouldn't come. You can't judge a person. Nobody really knows what he did."
To be sure, Tyson cannot accelerate the long-planned resurrection of a section of Main Street that is blighted by empty stores. But his appeal is expected to fill the Pyramid's nearly 20,000 seats at a high of $2,400 a ticket. 
Gate receipts at the Pyramid are expected to be $23 million, 15 times more than the arena's previous highest-grossing event, a Rolling Stones concert that produced $1.5 million in sales. 
Like many midsize American cities, Memphis has craved greater renown by pursuing major league sports. Over the last 30 years, a dozen professional teams have come and gone. Two years ago, John Calipari was hired to coach the basketball team at the University of Memphis, and last year, the city lured the National Basketball Association's Grizzlies, formerly of Vancouver.
Many city leaders hope the Lewis-Tyson fight will finally put Memphis on the global sports map. But if Tyson gnaws at Lewis's extremities or throws a punch at Eddie Cotton, the referee, Memphis's leaders hope their city's name will not be sullied.
"Hockey doesn't stop when someone hits someone with a stick," Towns said. "There's violence on television. Mike Tyson is nothing but antics and trash talking. You can't stop the man from working."
The Tyson-Lewis fight may be the biggest sports event ever in Memphis, but history has been made here. The Union army occupied the city during the Civil War. Yellow fever in 1878 killed half the populace. Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated at the Lorraine Motel. Elvis died at Graceland.
Memphis, which had a population of 650,000 in the 2000 census, has never been a boxing hotbed.
"Memphis was generally fundamentalist Christian," said Charles Crawford, a history professor at the University of Memphis. "Memphis was a center of sports and entertainment until early in the 20th century, until the passage of the Tennessee Prohibition Act in 1909, and there was a reaction against sports like horse racing and boxing that involved gambling."
Never before has Memphis been the site of a heavyweight title bout, and the city has been unlucky in pro sports. Its World Football League Southmen and United States Football League Showboats went belly up, as did the leagues. Memphis's franchise in the American Basketball Association (the Pros, then the Tams, then the Sounds) lasted from 1970 to 1975. For nearly three decades, Memphis sought a National Football League team.
Four years ago, after losing the Class AA Memphis Chicks baseball team to Jackson, Tenn., Memphis persuaded the St. Louis Cardinals to move their Class AAA Redbirds club here. In 2000, the Redbirds moved into a gem of a stadium, Autozone Park, which last year had the highest attendance in the minor leagues.
Also last year, the Grizzlies arrived from Vancouver. "Getting the Grizzlies was one factor in showing the city has reached a certain stature, that it can attract significant industry," said J. R. Hyde, who founded Autozone, a chain of automobile repair stores, and who helped lead the pursuit of the Grizzlies.
Unlike the N.B.A.'s orderly transfer of the Grizzlies to Memphis, there was nothing systematic about finding a site for the Tyson-Lewis fight.
"I started reading that California, Florida, Texas and Georgia were going for it, and I thought, 'Why not Tennessee?' " said Brian Young, a local promoter. 
Young assembled a group of investors to raise the $12.5 million site fee. He wanted the fight to be in Nashville, at either the Adelphia Coliseum or the Gaylord Entertainment Center. But Bud Adams, the Tennessee Titans' owner, rejected the fight as inappropriate for Adelphia, and Young eventually decided that the arena would not generate enough revenue.
While Young pursued Nashville, Towns, the state legislator, called Young to suggest Memphis. "People thought I was from Pluto when I had the idea," Towns said. "But I couldn't figure out why not."
He interested Herenton in the idea, although the mayor was skeptical. "I thought we were going to be used to get a better deal elsewhere," said Herenton, who was persuaded to support the fight after meeting with Young, Finkel and Gary Shaw, who runs Main Events, Lewis's promoter.
Finkel praised Herenton but said only one factor swayed him to Memphis: money.
The arrival of the fight signifies the maturing of the Memphis market, said Andy Dolich, the Grizzlies' president for business operations.
"You wouldn't just look at Memphis and say, 'big-time sports,' " he said. "But add it up and it's powerful. It's part of the larger picture that says, 'Why not us?' "
There are at least a few dissenting voices in Memphis. Paula Casey, a women's rights activist, wonders why the city is so eager to accept Tyson.
"I'm just appalled," Casey said. "Boxing attracts an element I don't want to see. I've watched the Ku Klux Klan riot downtown. I don't want to see this. I'm going to Baltimore."
This is not only a Memphis deal. Thirty miles south lies Tunica, with its 10 hotel-casinos on land where cotton and soybeans once grew. 
Tunica provides the bout with the gaming element common to Las Vegas fights. Eight casinos bought thousands of tickets to distribute to their high rollers. The Tunica hotels will also provide a crucial 6,000 rooms, which, when added to the 20,000 rooms in Memphis, offer enough lodging for the mostly out-of-town fans and news media representatives. (Only about 3,000 tickets were sold locally.) 
Fitzgeralds, which looks like an Irish castle outside but a modest Poconos lodge inside, is Tyson's official camp hotel in Tunica. The more lavish Sam's Town, with its Wild West motif, is where Lewis's camp will stay.
"Everybody wanted to host Lennox Lewis, but I wanted Tyson," said Domenic Mezzetta, the general manager of Fitzgeralds, which is providing $1 million in free hotel rooms and services for Tyson's camp and tickets for gamblers. "Everybody hates him, but this will be the biggest gate in boxing history, because everyone wants to see him fight."
Sam's Town has plastered Lewis's name and image everywhere, down to the place mats used by diners beneath their $8.95 buffet meals.
"The Lewis camp was perceived as being the most desirable," said Rick White, the senior director for marketing at Sam's Town.
So far, there is little in Memphis that heralds the arrival of Tyson and Lewis. On a recent afternoon, the blues wafted from the clubs on Beale Street. A long line awaited the arrival of B. B. King at his club. The Pyramid's exhibition hall displayed czarist treasures. A bejeweled Elvis impersonator sang "Kentucky Rain" in an alley. 
And five ducks made their daily journey from the fountain in the Peabody Hotel lobby to a waiting elevator before hundreds of adoring tourists.
On June 7 and 8, Brown & Williamson, the tobacco company, is paying more than $100,000 to rent the Gibson Beale Street Showcase, an enormous guitar factory, for soirees with 2,500 guests. The nearby New Daisy Theater will play host to the official post-fight party.
But those hoping to cash in on the fight by renting their homes for several nights for huge sums seem headed for disappointment. Bill Harlow wanted $100,000 to rent his four-bedroom suburban home.
"I ain't got any commitments," he said. "I got nibbles, but they want to negotiate. Can you imagine?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Pyramid will be the site of the Mike Tyson-Lennox Lewis fight June 8. (Alan Spearman for The New York Times)(pg. D1); Mayor Willie Herenton eventually backed the fight in the Pyramid. (Troy Glasgow for The New York Times); A long line formed in Memphis when tickets for the fight went on sale. Nonetheless, most of the tickets went to fans from out of town. (Associated Press)(pg. D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BOXING (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); RESTAURANTS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (54%) BOXING; FINANCES 

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD; LEWIS, LENNOX; TYSON, MIKE 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (94%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (72%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%) MEMPHIS (TENN)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002 



728 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Details Plan To Raise Tax On Business 

BYLINE:  By LAURA MANSNERUS

DATELINE: TRENTON, May 29 

 BODY:
As state tax revenue continues to drop, even below Gov. James E. McGreevey's pessimistic projections, his administration today spelled out the details of a tax plan that would lean heavily on large corporations to close the budget gap.
 The long-awaited proposal to overhaul the business tax system, outlined today by State Treasurer John E. McCormac, would increase projected collections by nearly $800 million in the 2003 fiscal year, which begins July 1. 
 Testifying before a State Senate committee today, Mr. McCormac took up the theme that Governor McGreevey has sounded since he took office in January: that corporate taxpayers have escaped their fair share of the tax burden, as their proportion of total revenues dropped to about 5 percent from 15 percent over the last two decades. 
More than three-quarters of New Jersey businesses pay only a minimum corporate tax of $200 a year, Mr. McCormac said. "The corporate business tax has become the corporate optional tax," he said. 
State Senator Joseph M. Kyrillos Jr., the Republican state chairman, immediately labeled the plan an "employer tax," and added in a statement, "A tax hike in the middle of an economic recession is horrible public policy."
Nonetheless, the Republican chairman of the Senate Budget Committee is joining Democrats in sponsoring the legislation, which must be signed by June 30, the end of the current fiscal year. The State Senate is evenly split between the parties, so the governor will need some Republican support.
Mr. McGreevey proposed to change the business tax in his budget address in March, but then stymied opposition by putting off a decision on the details.
Despite Mr. McGreevey's insistent references to "closing loopholes," which he said would not violate his earlier promise not to raise any major taxes, business leaders protested that the result could only be higher taxes and fewer new jobs.
Many legislators, including Democrats, were also perplexed, complaining that they could not move budget legislation without knowing the governor's plans as the June deadline approached. 
The governor's proposal recasts the minimum tax formula to prevent multistate corporations from shifting assets to other states, and so avoid New Jersey business taxes. The change is expected to raise $240 million to $275 million.
The other key components in the plan, expected to yield $250 million to $300 million, are a new fee on partnerships and other unincorporated businesses and improved collection of taxes owed to New Jersey by partners who live in other states.
The governor's plan also eliminates tax exclusions for interest expenses and some dividend income, and compels multistate corporations to report certain sales in New Jersey that they now claim in states where they are tax-exempt.
Philip Kirschner, the executive vice president of the New Jersey Business and Industry Association, said today that the plan "is designed to touch the larger companies, and it does." 
Very small businesses may benefit from the plan, which exempts a company's first $1 million in sales from the minimum tax and cuts the tax rate for companies with profits of less than $50,000.
Mr. Kirschner said it was not clear yet how the tax changes would affect medium-size companies. He said the association would seek assessments from a sampling of members as soon as the legislation becomes available on Thursday. 
On Tuesday, the treasurer's office announced that its estimate of tax collections for the current fiscal year would be $589 million less than the projection in Mr. McGreevey's original budget. Today, in testimony before the Senate Budget Committee, Mr. McCormac said he now expected revenue for the 2003 fiscal year to be $628 million below the March projections.
He estimated that the treasury would collect $700 million less in the current fiscal year than it did last year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CORPORATE TAX (91%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); TAX INCREASES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CHANGE MANAGEMENT (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002 



729 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1520 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Fund for Tower Victims Will Aid Some Gay Partners 

BYLINE:  By JANE GROSS 

 BODY:
Some of the gay men and lesbians who were partners of Sept. 11 victims are poised to collect substantial awards from the federal fund set up to compensate bereaved families, according to Kenneth R. Feinberg, special master of the fund, and lawyers familiar with the process.
 Those who present claims to the Sept. 11 Victim Compensation Fund in cooperation with the next of kin of the deceased are all but assured of awards, Mr. Feinberg said. But even situations in which the victim's family is not supportive will be reviewed case by case, Mr. Feinberg said, with state law as the guiding principle. 
 New York State does not recognize same-sex unions. But an executive order by Gov. George E. Pataki in the wake of the terror attacks extending spousal benefits to gay partners under the State Crime Victims Board was intended to give Mr. Feinberg room to exercise discretion. 
"If the next of kin is supportive and there's no dispute, it's a nonissue," Mr. Feinberg said in an interview. "If the personal representative, say a parent, comes to me and says, 'Cut a check for the same-sex partner,' there will be no problem. Then it's a ministerial function. What do I care?" 
In less clear-cut situations, Mr. Feinberg added, he will take into account that New York's leaders, in a variety of post-9/11 actions, "have tried to improve the likelihood that I can exercise my discretion and I will do my best." He added that cases involving heterosexual domestic partners will be reviewed in the same way.
The federal awards process unfolds in the context of decisions by the state and city government and by the Red Cross that are supportive of the claims of the 22 known gay surviving partners of the terror attacks. These actions are not meant to be a wholesale push to expand the rights of same-sex couples. Rather they are a demonstration, halting and tentative, of how a national tragedy can result in policy that would not have occurred otherwise. It is too early to say whether any of the emergency benefits made available to survivors of Sept. 11 will be extended to others. 
"Clearly the momentum is specific to this event and won't necessarily be replicated," said Lee. M. Miringoff, the director of the Marist College Poll, commenting on the significance of the poll results. "But it does change the political climate and it's hard to imagine totally turning back the clock."
The legalizing of gay marriage remains unpopular, opposed by a majority of Americans. But polls show that most people support individual spousal benefits for gay partners, whose unions are recognized by law only in Vermont and Hawaii.
Gay rights organizations, like the Empire Gay Pride Agenda and the Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund, have made inclusion in Sept. 11 relief efforts, and especially the federal fund, a major priority, for the sake of the partners and the political precedent it could set. 
Still, recognition of survivors of gays is a polarizing issue for politicians. Republicans in the House of Representatives shelved a Senate bill, opposed by the Department of Justice, that would have provided death benefits to the survivors of the Rev. Mychal Judge, a New York City Fire Department chaplain, who was gay, and estates of nine other gay public safety officers who died at the the World Trade Center. Father Judge's survivors were his sisters.
The loudest public outcry against assisting gay partners of Sept. 11 victims has come from conservative organizations, like the Traditional Values Coalition in Anaheim, Calif. Its founder, the Rev. Louis P. Sheldon, has said that charitable organizations "should be giving priority to those widows who were home with their babies" and that government agencies should not be swayed by advocates "capitalizing on a national tragedy to promote their homosexual agenda."
But New York's elected leaders have supported the extension of aid. Mr. Pataki's executive order to the Crime Victims Board entitles domestic partners to awards up to $600 a week, to a total of $30,000, a benefit otherwise limited to husbands or wives. The lesbian partner of a civilian Army employee who died at the Pentagon, by contrast, was denied benefits by the comparable agency in Virginia.
The governor also opened the state's Sept. 11 charitable fund to gay partners. Along with other state and city elected leaders, Mr. Pataki petitioned the Bush administration to define relationships, for the purposes of the federal fund, by the "totality of circumstance," including "emotional and financial commitment" and "exclusivity and longevity," not by the existence of marriage licenses. In addition, in a recent 9/11 relief act passed unanimously by the State Legislature, the preamble states that it is the lawmakers' intent that domestic partners be recognized by Mr. Feinberg. 
New York City joined the Pataki administration in its appeal to the federal government and similarly made its Sept. 11 charity available to gay partners. Yesterday, the City Council held a hearing on the difficulties faced by surviving domestic partners, both homosexual and heterosexual, who are ineligible for a safety net of government benefits, including Social Security, Workers Compensation, military and uniformed service pensions and inheritance rights in the absence of a will.
In addition, the Red Cross strengthened its policy of defining family in a "broad and inclusive" way by adding guidelines and oversight. Faced with reports of gay partners turned away by workers at the Family Assistance Center at Pier 94, the charity issued 16 criteria for determining a "financially interdependent" couple; trained volunteers to interview same-sex partners; and appointed an ombudsman to oversee their cases.
The emergency funds made available after Sept. 11 came too late for Mike Lyons of Jersey City, who saw his partner of 18 years, John Keohane, killed by falling debris as the two fled the collapsing towers. Mr. Lyons, unemployed and suffering from multiple sclerosis, was slow to apply for financial assistance, and was running out of money when he committed suicide on March 1.
Emergency aid kept Margaret Cruz afloat after the loss of her partner of 18 years, Patricia McAneney. Ms. McAneney's brother and sister-in-law filed for both government and charitable funds. By law, they are entitled $50,000 in Workers Compensation. But Ms. Cruz documented her financially interdependent partnership and prevailed with the Crime Victim's Board, the Red Cross and the New York State charitable fund. A total of $80,000 went to Ms. McAneney.
No decisions will mean more financially than those made by Mr. Feinberg, who supervises a fund created by Congress, as part of the airline bailout package, to compensate survivors of the terrorist attacks in return for their promise not to sue. Awards are expected to average $1.85 million per family; the calculation depends on the number of people entitled to money, among other criteria, and could grow if next of kin and a domestic partner jointly apply. 
"Some, I can't say most, will get generous awards," said Larry S. Stewart, a Miami lawyer who is the president of Trial Lawyers Care, a consortium of more than 1,200 lawyers offering free representation to the more than 3,000 eligible families, including some of the gay partners. "And that will create positive pressure for change." 
Many of the 22 surviving gay partners have not been accepted by the next of kin, seriously complicating their cases. William Randolph, for one, a part-time organist at the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, lived in Harlem for 26 years with his partner, Wesley Mercer, vice president of corporate security at Morgan Stanley. Mr. Mercer helped save all but 2 of the company's 3,300 employees.
Mr. Mercer never divorced his wife, Mr. Randolph said, so she will receive his Army pension, Social Security and Workers Compensation. The Mercers had two children, one deceased and the other grown and financially independent. Mr. Randolph received a gift of $100,000 from Morgan Stanley, which was aware of the men's long-term relationship, and he also received help from the Crime Victims Board and the Red Cross.
Others, like David O'Leary of Yonkers, have the full backing of his partner's family and thus fit Mr. Feinberg's definition of an easy claim to adjudicate. Mr. O'Leary has tentatively begun the process by gathering documents as personal as birthday cards and family photographs and as bureaucratic at joint bank statements and utility bills.
Mr. O'Leary and Michael Lepore had lived together for 18 years and combined their assets in every way. Mr. Lepore's mother, Jean Carlucci, has already signed over her $50,000 lump sum payment from Workers Compensation. The youngest of Mr. Lepore's three brothers, Anthony, the executor of the estate, has given Mr. O'Leary momentos the survivors have greatly prized: the commemorative urn and flag from the city and choice seats at ground zero ceremonies, which he would otherwise have been denied.
"That's just how they have been," Mr. O'Leary said. "They look at me as Michael's spouse, and think everything should go to me."

CORRECTION-DATE: May 31, 2002

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article yesterday about federal compensation awards to the same-sex partners of Sept. 11 victims referred imprecisely to legislation shelved by Congress that would have guaranteed compensation to survivors of the public safety officers who died without immediate next of kin. The legislation would have provided death benefits to the estates of 10 officers who died without spouses, children or living parents; it made no mention of their sexual orientation.

GRAPHIC: Photos: William Randolph, above, lost his partner, Wesley Mercer, and has not been accepted by Mr. Mercer's next of kin. David O'Leary, seated far left, has the support of the family of his partner, Michael Lepore, including Mr. Lepore's brother Anthony, standing. Margaret Cruz, left, lost her partner, Patricia McAneney. She testified yesterday at a City Council hearing. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times); (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times); (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (93%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); FAMILY (89%); COHABITATION (89%); LGBT RIGHTS (78%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MARRIAGE (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); HIJACKING (74%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); CITY GOVERNMENT (63%); CITIES (63%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); HOMOSEXUALITY 

PERSON: GROSS, JANE; FEINBERG, KENNETH R 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); VERMONT, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC) 

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002 



730 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 184 words

HEADLINE: The Body Scan, for Good or Ill 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 As a cardiologist who receives frequent panicked calls as heart scans have flourished, I must point out important problems created by the direct marketing of these scans (front page, May 27). 
 Driven by lucrative economics, many scans are performed ignoring a principal tenet of biostatistics, which considers pretest probability of disease. 
This approach minimizes falsely positive and negative results by recommending screening tests only to patients who are of moderate risk.
Bypassing the patient's doctor often leads to the panic witnessed by many cardiologists when a heart scan is labeled abnormal. Most of these centers do not have cardiologists available to make clinical sense of the results.
Whatever role research helps to define for heart scans as a screening test for coronary disease, the critical decisions of patient selection, test interpretation and patient counseling should be made by the patient's doctor or cardiologist, not initiated by the patient through an advertisement on TV or a highway billboard.

JONATHAN SCHARFSTEIN, M.D.
Shaker Heights, Ohio, May 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); CARDIOLOGY (90%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (88%); HEART DISEASE (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (73%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; CAT SCANS 

PERSON: SCHARFSTEIN, JONATHAN (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002 



731 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 120 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Charges Dismissed In January Protest

BYLINE:  AP (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

 BODY:
 A judge yesterday dismissed charges that were filed against five protesters at the World Economic Forum in January. The police said they arrested the five demonstrators, all women, shortly after 7 a.m. on Jan. 31 and charged them with trespass and unlawful posting. 
They said the women had climbed a ladder to the roof of a Lower Manhattan building with a banner that read, "Bush and big biz agree that people with AIDS drop dead." Judge Gregory Carro of Manhattan Criminal Court said he dismissed the charges because they included no declaration from the landlord that the women had no right to be there and because the unlawful-posting count was not applicable to an abandoned building that is not owned by the city.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LITIGATION (88%); CRIMINAL TRESPASS (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002 



732 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo's False Start 

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT; E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Andrew Cuomo, whose tone of voice has become almost a replica of his father's, would like his words to convey a sense of idealism -- the great things that can be accomplished with a life dedicated to public service. His frequent references to the Kennedys (he's married to Robert Kennedy's daughter Kerry) is in the service of that effort.
 But so far in Mr. Cuomo's campaign for governor of New York, it is not the idealism that has been thrust into the foreground, but the much less wholesome quality of cynicism. 
 The latest example was the way in which Mr. Cuomo turned his back last week on the state Democratic Party's nominating convention. He did it at the last minute after courting delegates for more than a year. Suddenly, as Carl McCall was about to pull off his expected huge victory at the convention, Mr. Cuomo announced that he would boycott the gathering and take his campaign "to the people" by collecting nominating petitions to get on the ballot for the Sept. 10 primary.
There was nothing wrong with what Mr. Cuomo did. He could have gotten on the ballot, even in a losing effort, by drawing 25 percent of the votes at the convention. And he can get on by collecting 15,000 signatures from voters around the state. It was his call.
But Mr. Cuomo has tried to give the impression that by going the petition route he is some kind of outsider who is distancing himself from the grubbiness of power politics so he can lead a reform movement that will transform politics and government in New York.
And that won't wash. For one thing, Mr. Cuomo would gladly have accepted the state party's nomination if he had been able to win it. Secondly, the idea that Mr. Cuomo is an outsider is silly. He's not just the son of Mario Cuomo, who was governor for three terms, he was Governor Cuomo's campaign manager and chief troubleshooter. He's married to a Kennedy. He's a former cabinet officer in the Clinton administration. He's a skilled fund-raiser. Power politics is Andrew Cuomo's natural environment.
Moreover, even as Mr. Cuomo is sprinting away from the state Democratic Party, he's welcoming the endorsement of the Liberal Party, an increasingly disheveled organization that worships at the shrine of patronage and shudders at the mere mention of reform.
Even Mr. Cuomo acknowledges that this might be problematic. He told me yesterday, "I understand the point that people believe the Liberal Party has used patronage in the past. That's not going to be my relationship with the Liberal Party."
Mr. Cuomo has not been playing his best cards in this campaign. I can recall the Andrew Cuomo who, in 1999, when he was secretary of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, traveled the country to bring attention to those areas that, despite a booming economy, were still poor and still suffering. These included places like Guadalupe, Ariz., and Kasigluk, Alaska, and chronically depressed regions like Appalachia and the Mississippi Delta. 
This was a time when it took some courage for a major politician to talk seriously about fighting poverty. Mr. Cuomo would spotlight places that had been "left behind in the new economy," and he would argue that it was precisely when the economy was surging and the budget surplus was huge that the U.S. should find creative and effective ways to invest in those sections of the country that were hurting. 
"If not now," he asked, "when?"
That tone, and something close to that message, would likely play well in New York right now. The upstate economy is hurting. And New York City is still suffering from the combined effects of an economic downturn and the terrorist attacks. The national economy is no longer the bulwark it was, but that just means there is more of a need than ever to come up with answers that are creative and effective.
The missteps in the Cuomo campaign, and there have been others not mentioned here, undermine the idealism that the candidate sees as an essential part of his message.
If Mr. Cuomo is going to invoke the memory of Robert F. Kennedy, which he does, and the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., which he does, then he has an obligation to run a campaign that is worthy of their legacies. 
He's got some time. The better Andrew needs to step forward. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICS (89%); PETITIONS (87%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); BALLOTS (74%); FUNDRAISING (71%); LIBERALISM (69%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; ENDORSEMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERAL PARTY (NYS) 

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (93%) HERBERT, BOB; CUOMO, ANDREW M 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002 



733 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: The Most Dangerous Place in the World 

BYLINE:  By Salman Rushdie; Salman Rushdie is the author of "Fury: A Novel" and the forthcoming essay collection "Step Across This Line."

 BODY:
The present Kashmir crisis feels like a deja vu replay of the last one. Three years ago a weak Indian coalition government led by the Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party had just lost a confidence vote in India's Parliament and was nervously awaiting a general election. At once it began to beat the war drums over Kashmir. Now another coalition government, still led by the B.J.P. and deeply tainted by B.J.P. supporters' involvement in the massacre of hundreds of Muslims in Gujarat State, may be about to lose another general election. So here goes the government again, talking up a Kashmiri war and asking India to stand firm behind its leadership. 
 Three years ago in Pakistan, the equally weak government of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif had bankrupted the national economy and was facing well-documented corruption charges. Mr. Sharif, too, had much to gain from war fever -- fed by the various Muslim terrorist groups operating in Kashmir. The hawkish Pakistani general then responsible for communicating with and training those terrorist groups was one Pervez Musharraf. (By the way -- just so we're clear on who Mr. Musharraf, now Pakistan's president, really is -- some of these groups were almost certainly sent by Pakistan's intelligence service to Qaeda training camps in Afghanistan.) When Nawaz Sharif succumbed to American pressure and promised to rein in the terrorists, General Musharraf was furious. A few months later he overthrew Mr. Sharif in a coup and seized power. 
 Will the outcome also be a replay of three years ago? Will the conflict be contained again?
This time President Musharraf is the one being pressed by the United States to stamp out Kashmiri terrorism. He has been playing a double game, arresting hundreds of members of the groups he once fostered but quietly freeing most of them soon afterward. Caught between two necessities -- placating his major international sponsor and playing to the home audience -- he may well in the end follow his deepest political instincts: to support (overtly or covertly) the Islamist radicals who have terrorized the once idyllic valley of Kashmir for well over a decade.
Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee of India, with his talk of a "decisive battle," clearly feels that direct military action, resulting in the reconquest of some if not all of the Kashmiri territory now under Pakistani control, is the only way of preventing attacks like the atrocity this month in which women and children were slaughtered at an Indian army base. Mr. Vajpayee knows that Indian rule is unpopular in the valley, that the Indian army looks to many Kashmiris like an army of occupation. But he will also have calculated that in the opinion of the international community, and also of many fearful, near-destitute Kashmiris, Pakistan's protracted sponsorship of terrorism has damaged its claims to moral legitimacy.
Would a war between India and Pakistan, if it came, go nuclear?
Pakistan, with its suggestively timed missile tests, its refusal to adopt a policy of not being the first to use nuclear arms and its hawkish talk, is trying to give the impression that it would have no compunction about using its nuclear arsenal. India's military leadership has said that if attacked with nuclear bombs it would respond with maximum force and that in such a conflict India would sustain heavy damage but survive, whereas Pakistan would be destroyed utterly.
Is it really likely, however, that Pakistan would, so to speak, strap a nuclear weapon to its belly, walk into the crowded bazaar that is India and turn itself into the biggest suicide bomber in history?
Mr. Musharraf doesn't look like martyr material. Ah, but if he were losing a conventional war? If India's overwhelming numerical superiority on land, at sea and in the air won the day and Pakistan lost its prized Kashmiri land, would reason be swept aside? Worst of all, if Pakistani fury at a military defeat by India were to result in Mr. Musharraf's overthrow by Islamist hard-liners, Pakistan's nuclear warheads could fall into the hands of people for whom martyrdom is a higher goal than peace, people who value death more highly than life.
Pakistan is calling on the international community to intervene, but this call must be heard with caution. For half a century Pakistan has sought to internationalize the Kashmiri dispute while India has consistently described that effort as interference in its internal affairs. Both sides are locked into old language, old strategies and an old game of chicken that's currently playing itself out across the Line of Control. Like two aged wrestlers fighting on a cliff, India and Pakistan are locked together, rolling ever closer to the edge.
But their ancient hatred is no longer a matter only for them. The risk of a nuclear battle, however improbable, makes Kashmir everybody's problem. Right now it's the most dangerous place in the world. These pathetic old fighters must be pulled apart, and soon. Yes, that probably does mean intervention by the West, though Russia seems eager to help as well, which is useful.
This should not, however, be the intervention that Pakistan wants. The point is not to restrain Indian "aggression," but to make the world safer for us all. The situation can only be stabilized if India and Pakistan are both forced to back away, preferably to outside of Kashmir's historic, unpartitioned borders. This "hands off Kashmir" solution will have to be externally imposed on the reluctant principals and will require that a large peacekeeping force be sent to the region to support Kashmir as an autonomous area. But who in the West wants that -- it's just the old colonialist-imperialist power trip, isn't it? And who's supposed to pay for all this peacekeeping, anyway?
The answers to those questions are also questions: What's the alternative? Do you have a better idea? Or shall we just stand back and keep our postcolonial, nonimperialist fingers crossed? Will it take mushroom clouds over Delhi and Islamabad to make us give up our ingrained prejudices and try something that might actually work? In the immortal words of the Spice Girls, "Will this deja vu never end?"

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Marshall Arismanz) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); ARMIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); CORRUPTION (76%); COUPS (75%); RELIGION (73%); MILITARY BASES (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); CHILDREN (66%); ARMED FORCES (60%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; INDIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-PAKISTAN 

PERSON: NAWAZ SHARIF (89%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (89%) RUSHDIE, SALMAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: KASHMIR (96%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (94%); GUJARAT, INDIA (58%) ASIA (96%); INDIA (95%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) INDIA; PAKISTAN; KASHMIR AND JAMMU

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002 



734 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
In numbers we trust, provided they're safe from political meddling.

BYLINE:  By Alan B. Krueger; Alan B. Krueger is the Bendheim professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton University and editor of The Journal of Economic Perspectives. E-mail: akrueger@princeton.edu.

 BODY:
FEW people have heard of the Office of Management and Budget's Statistical Policy Directive No. 3, but it affects the way economic news is discussed and is a cornerstone for trust in federal statistics like the unemployment rate and Consumer Price Index.
 Among other things, the directive prevents political appointees from publicly commenting on sensitive economic indicators until at least an hour after the professionals who produce the data have had a chance to explain the findings. It also restricts those within the government who can receive sensitive data early. 
 The directive was initially put in place in the early 1970's, after the Nixon administration commented that a drop of two-tenths of a percentage point in the unemployment rate was significant, only to be contradicted by a career employee of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, who pointed out that the drop did not cross the threshold for statistical significance. 
The goals of the directive are laudable: to "strike a balance between timeliness and accuracy, prevent early access to information that may affect financial and commodity markets, and preserve the distinction between the policy-neutral release of data by statistical agencies and their interpretation by policy officials." The practices it establishes prevent political meddling.
Some officials have found that the directive makes it difficult to spin the numbers for political advantage -- exactly as intended. 
President Bill Clinton occasionally found it hard to resist commenting on the numbers before an hour had lapsed. 
Last year, the labor secretary, Elaine L. Chao, sent a memo to the White House budget director, Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., openly requesting a change in policy "to address the contemporary political climate." 
"The advent of the 24-hour news cycle, known as the 'CNN Effect,' " she argued, "has rendered this policy obsolete. Reporters from each network cover the announcement live at 8:30 a.m., and pundits begin to offer their interpretations immediately after the data has been made public.
She added: "Preventing the executive branch from presenting its point of view in the first hour has become a distinct disadvantage, as the tone of the analysis and debate is often already determined by the time an hour has passed." 
Ms. Chao requested that senior administration officials be permitted to comment on federal data immediately after their release to "clarify the issues," and that they be given access to data a day early to "formulate a coherent policy." (Ordinarily, the labor secretary is briefed on the unemployment rate by the Bureau of Labor Statistics half an hour before the data are released, but Ms. Chao has opted not to participate in such briefings.) 
The budget office wisely decided not to change Directive No. 3. 
The issue of who gets what when is of critical importance for economic statistics, as well as central intelligence. The procedures specify that the Council of Economic Advisers receives principal economic indicators as soon as they are available. 
The council passes the information on to the president; the Federal Reserve Board chairman, Alan Greenspan; and the Treasury secretary, Paul H. O'Neill. 
Mr. Greenspan also has an agreement with the Bureau of Labor Statistics to receive monthly employment data for manufacturing, mining and public utilities two or three days early, ostensibly so the Fed can produce its industrial production statistics on a timely basis, though those figures are not released until 10 to 17 days later. Surely, the chairman's reason for wanting the data early is a ruse; he wants an advanced hint at where the economy is headed. 
It is an interesting question whether it makes sense for the Fed chairman and Treasury secretary to receive the information before everyone else. Providing prerelease data may make the chairman seem omniscient and help the Fed and Treasury outfox the markets, but it is unclear whether these advantages increase or decrease market volatility and raise economic growth.
In a paper presented at the Fed's symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyo., last summer, Michael Woodford, a Princeton macroeconomist, argued that "monetary policy can be even more effective" when information is more rapidly disseminated to the private sector. 
In addition, privileged access raises the level of cynicism by market participants. 
With hundreds of billions of dollars of government spending and tax receipts directly tied to federal statistics, the hurdle to persuade the public that the numbers are free from political meddling is high.
The statistical agencies take many precautions to inspire confidence in government data. Virtually all the agencies' work is done by career employees protected by the civil service system; the Bureau of Labor Statistics has only one political appointee; the Census Bureau, four; and the Bureau of Economic Analysis, none. 
Nevertheless, trust in federal statistics is low. Robert Shiller of Yale found in a 1996 public opinion survey that slightly more Americans agreed than disagreed with this statement: "An important reason not to trust contracts indexed to inflation is that someone in the government might deliberately falsify the inflation numbers to take advantage of people like me."
Although such concerns are ludicrous to anyone who has observed the dedication, nonpartisanship and professionalism of the employees of federal statistical agencies, public cynicism toward government statistics runs deep.
The word "statistics" originally meant "state arithmetic." Objective, credible statistics are essential for government, business and personal decisions -- and for the operation of democracy itself. It is important that strong safeguards be maintained to prevent even the appearance of political meddling with the data, and that senior government officials appreciate the justification for such safeguards.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, receives some economic data early, and the labor secretary, Elaine L. Chao, has asked to see it and be allowed to comment on it sooner. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BUDGETS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); STATISTICAL METHOD (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); POLITICS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; STATISTICS 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%) OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET 

PERSON: ELAINE CHAO (89%); ALAN GREENSPAN (72%); MITCH DANIELS (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%) KRUEGER, ALAN B 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002 



735 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Reporter's Notebook; 
Playing the Bad Cop on the African Tour

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia, May 29 

 BODY:
In his 16 months as treasury secretary, Paul H. O'Neill has developed a reputation as a straight shooter, in the view of his admirers, or a loose cannon, as his detractors see it.
 Either way, he has been true to form as he has traveled through Africa for the last 10 days on a fact-finding trip with Bono, the rock star and social activist. 
 He has bluntly questioned whether decades of aid from rich nations has done much to alleviate poverty, and he has voiced suspicions that much of it has been lost to inefficiency and corruption.
"Where does the money go?" he asked in exasperation during a discussion of World Bank programs in Uganda the other day. 
After just a few days in Africa, he began offering prescriptions for dealing with two issues that governments and relief organizations have been grappling with for decades. Everyone should have access to clean water more or less immediately, he said, and every school should have at least one book per child.
In both cases, he suggested that substantial progress could be made within a year or two and waved off warnings from people with long experience in Africa that the problems were more complicated than he was making them out to be.
"I know how to buy a book," Mr. O'Neill told representatives of poverty-fighting groups in Uganda, explaining that he was a "systems guy" who knew how to make things happen. "So I'm going to take away the excuse of books. Right now. End of subject. I'm going to take away the subject of water. No more conversation about it."
For the first week of the trip, his appearances with Bono tended to follow a pattern. Bono, the lead singer of U2, would note the success of whatever internationally financed project they were visiting -- a school, a well, a health clinic -- and press the United States to make a further commitment to direct aid and debt relief. Mr. O'Neill would then ask why more had not been accomplished in the past and why programs were not moving more quickly and effectively now.
The trip is being covered by everyone from MTV to The Economist. Stories about the trip have tended to highlight the debate, and the occasional tension, between the two men.
Treasury officials started complaining to reporters that Mr. O'Neill was being portrayed as opposing aid, when in fact the administration was supporting substantial increases. Flying into Ethiopia on Tuesday night, Mr. O'Neill even vented his anger directly at the press corps over how he was being cast.
But today, Mr. O'Neill had apparently decided that he was not presenting his views as clearly as he had intended. So at a news conference here this morning, he made a straightforward statement.
"Programs are working, aid is helping and standards of living are improving," he said. "But more needs to be done, and it needs to be done right and it needs to be done right now."

The Star, as Opening Act
Bono is the main media attraction on the trip. But ordinary Africans and their leaders appear much more interested in Mr. O'Neill, the man who controls the American checkbook, or at least is perceived to do so.
Mr. O'Neill arrives with some theater of his own, a dozen-vehicle motorcade that screams down dusty streets with a police escort.
There is potential political benefit for the administration from images of Mr. O'Neill meeting some of the world's most disadvantaged people in the company of one of the world's best-known rockers. That may explain why the administration sent Mark McKinnon, who was George W. Bush's media and image consultant during the 2000 presidential campaign, to stage-manage the photo opportunities. 
Bono is well known among grass-roots activists in Africa, many of whom he has visited quietly over his years of involvement on the continent. But most ordinary Africans do not seem to have a clue who he is, even when he sings for the crowds that the duo encounters.
Asked by a worker at a Ford factory in South Africa who he represented, Bono replied that he was C.E.O. of the U2 Corporation.

Wells From Heaven
Mr. O'Neill says he is in Africa to listen and learn. But he has spent much of the trip making back-of-the-envelope calculations of what it would cost to ensure that every African has access to clean water.
In Uganda, he calculated, less than $25 million would solve the problem for 10 million people.
Representatives of poverty-fighting organizations said they were grateful for Mr. O'Neill's interest -- but they accused him of a tendency he derides in others, of jumping to conclusions based on incomplete or anecdotal information.
Thomas Overton, of Save the Children, told Mr. O'Neill that he had failed to take into account the costs and difficulties of maintaining wells in countries where there are few skilled workers to look after them and a shortage of spare parts.
"It's not enough," Mr. Overton said during lunch with Mr. O'Neill, "just to drop a well down in the middle of a community."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill sampled coffee at a processing plant in Ethiopia yesterday. During a tour of the continent, Mr. O'Neill has bluntly questioned whether international aid is being put to good use. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (76%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); POP & ROCK (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (68%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (68%); MUSIC (67%); NEWS REPORTING (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); TRENDS (63%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (62%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%) FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: BONO (89%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC); BONO (MUSICIAN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (79%) AFRICA (96%); ETHIOPIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); UGANDA (91%) AFRICA

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002 



736 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: Libyan Money For Flight 103 Isn't Remorse, U.S. Says 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 29 

 BODY:
An offer by Libya to pay $2.7 billion to the families of those killed in the bombing of Pam Am Flight 103 was thrown into doubt today when the United States rejected a key part of the deal and the Libyan government reportedly denied that it had anything to do with the offer. 
 United States government officials and a lawyer representing families of 118 victims said the Libyan government had offered to pay $10 million for each of the 270 people who died in the 1988 bombing. 
 But payment of the money is conditional on the lifting of United Nations and United States sanctions and the removal of Libya from the State Department's list of countries that sponsor terrorism. 
Today, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell called the reported offer a "step in the right direction." But he added: "We are waiting to see what the actual Libyan offer is. It's not yet formally put on the table, and we'll examine it when we see all of its elements."
The the State Department spokesman, Richard A. Boucher, said the offer fell short of what was needed to end the sanctions. 
"U.N. resolutions require the Libyans to satisfy four requirements related to the Pan Am 103 bombing before the sanctions are lifted," Mr. Boucher said. "Paying adequate, appropriate compensation is one of these requirements. The other requirements relate to responsibility -- acceptance of responsibility, disclosing information and renouncing terrorism."
Mr. Boucher added that until the sanctions were lifted, Libya could not be removed from the list of states that sponsor terrorism. 
The United States has imposed sanctions on Libya since the 1980's. After American investigators said Libya was responsible for the Pan Am bombing over Lockerbie, Scotland, Washington successfully petitioned the Security Council to impose additional economic and diplomatic sanctions, which went into effect in 1992-93. 
Last year a Scottish court convened in the Netherlands convicted Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed al-Megrahi, a Libyan intelligence official, of murder for his role in the bombing. He is serving a life sentence.
The Libyan government, which has denied any role in the bombing, made Mr. Megrahi available for trial as part of an arrangement that included a suspension of the United Nations sanctions. But the Libyans are still pressing for their permanent removal. 
But today, JANA, the Libyan government news agency, quoted a Libyan spokesman as saying: "Libya is not part of this issue. As far as the Libyan state is concerned, it has not been accused in this issue and it has nothing to do with any accords." 
JANA quoted the spokesman as saying that all Libya knew was that Libyan business executives, joined by legal experts, had met with families of the victims but did not inform Libya officially of the outcome. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); TERRORISM (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); AIRLINES (73%); LAWYERS (73%); SENTENCING (66%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (66%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (64%); PETITIONS (62%); JAIL SENTENCING (61%); MURDER (58%); FINES & PENALTIES (55%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (91%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%) PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC; UNITED NATIONS 

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (91%)

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A; BOUCHER, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); SCOTLAND (93%); NETHERLANDS (79%) LIBYA

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002 



737 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Mexico Misses Deadline for Water-Debt Plan 

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, May 29 

 BODY:
President Vicente Fox will not meet a deadline for a plan to pay Mexico's enormous water debt to the United States, Mr. Fox's aides said today.
 Mexico owes 456 billion gallons under a 1944 treaty, a debt run up over a decade. Mr. Fox promised President Bush two weeks ago that on May 30, he would announce a strategy to pay off the debt. But today there is no plan to divide the waters of the Rio Grande, which divides Texas and Mexico along a 1,250-mile border, and there will not be one tomorrow, the aides said. 
 The Rio Grande valley is a semiarid place where millions depend on other people's water for their economic existence. Severe water shortages are creating social and political strains on both sides of the river.
Mr. Fox's aides now say it will take five years or more to pay the debt. To honor it by this summer, as Texas has requested, is impossible, said Alberto Szekely, the national water secretary. "Not even draining all the reservoirs would satisfy that demand," he said.
The United States ambassador, Jeffrey Davidow, acknowledges that Mexico is a thirsty land but says it could begin paying its some of its due tomorrow. "Let's share the water that there is," he said. "The suffering has to be shared."
There is enough suffering to go around, to be sure, but not enough water. Thousands of farmers on both sides of the border, gripped by an eight-year drought, stand to lose their crops, in part because Mexico has not allowed enough water to flow to the Rio Grande. Texans are especially aggrieved because Mr. Fox now has twice promised to pay the debt, accumulated by two past Mexican presidents.
Mr. Fox's close relations with Washington will be hurt if he cannot come up with a plan. His inability to deliver quickly on his personal pledge to Mr. Bush to solve the water crisis is raising questions about his ability to govern.
"Vicente Fox is trying to pay an accumulated debt of corruption, environmental degradation and administrative negligence," said Sergio Aguayo, a leading political analyst in Mexico.
But, he added, "one of this president's flaws is that he announces things before he accomplishes them." The water debt, left unpaid, "will contaminate his other problems" with the United States, including an impasse over immigration and economic development issues, Mr. Aguayo said.
Mexico wants the United States to help finance millions of dollars in improvements to its irrigation and wastewater treatment facilities to help meet its debt. Beyond that, farmers and politicians alike are facing the fact that drought and demand may alter the way people live along the river.
Since the 1944 treaty, irrigated agriculture has flooded the dry lands of the Rio Grande basin, feeding thirsty crops like citrus and sugar cane in a semidesert.
"There must be fundamental change in the ways water's being used on both sides of the border," said George Kourous, an expert on border issues at the Interhemispheric Resource Center, a research group in New Mexico.
Those changes should include both governments "sitting down together and working on a plan," said Mary Kelly, executive director of the Texas Center for Policy Studies, an environmental group in Austin. "Times change. Economies change. And water management policies have to change with them." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (89%); DROUGHT (89%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (89%); IRRIGATION (88%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); LAND DEGRADATION (71%); IMMIGRATION (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (50%) WATER; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) WEINER, TIM; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) TEXAS, USA (93%) MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (95%) MEXICO; RIO GRANDE RIVER

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002 



738 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: Wrong Way on Energy 

 BODY:
An administration staffed with aggressive corporate executives might normally be expected to embrace cutting-edge solutions to the country's energy problems -- especially when those solutions are accessible and affordable. Yet such is the Bush administration's ideological suspicion of anything resembling top-down government that it recoils from using timely federal regulation to encourage technological advance. The obvious example has been its reluctance to pressure Detroit for more fuel-efficient vehicles. A more recent example is its decision last week to roll back Clinton-era energy efficiency standards for air-conditioners. Seven states have sued to reverse the decision, and one of them, California, is seeking to impose its own, stricter standards. That is a course that New York's governor, George Pataki, should consider. 
 At the end of his term, after six years of consultation, President Bill Clinton approved a regulation requiring a 30 percent efficiency increase for central air-conditioners (not the window units most New Yorkers are familiar with). The Bush administration put the rule on hold and then last week imposed its own, lesser standard of a 20 percent increase. That's more of a difference than it seems, economically and environmentally. By 2020, the lower standard could cost consumers an extra $1 billion a year to run their air-conditioners. It could also result in extra greenhouse gas emissions, equivalent to the annual output of 1.7 million cars. 
 Most manufacturers have the ability to produce the more efficient units. But except for the second-largest maker, Goodman Manufacturing, none of the big companies wanted to proceed with the Clinton rule. They argued, and the Bush administration agreed, that the Clinton standard would make air-conditioners too expensive for low-income families and discourage others from replacing older systems. In actual fact, the up-front cost difference between the 20 and 30 percent standards is about $100 per unit -- an amount that could be recovered through electricity savings in three to five years.
Many states had hoped that Congress would come to their rescue by mandating the 30 percent increase. But a provision requiring such an increase lost narrowly in the Senate. California has thus decided to proceed on its own to the higher standard, which will require a federal waiver. Attorneys general in a half-dozen other states, including New York's Eliot Spitzer, have chosen to sue on grounds that federal law prevents government from rolling back existing standards. We hope they prevail. In some parts of the country, air-conditioners of all kinds account for nearly one-third of the electricity consumed during peak demand periods. The highest possible standards are clearly in order. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); GOVERNORS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); FAMILY (66%); GREENHOUSE GASES (65%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); HVAC & REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MFG (55%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; EDITORIALS; AIR CONDITIONING; ENERGY EFFICIENCY 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002 



739 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: U.S. MAY BUY BACK FLORIDA OIL RIGHTS 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER and CARL HULSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 29 

 BODY:
President Bush vowed today that the federal government would spend $235 million to buy back oil and natural gas rights in the Everglades and off the white-sand beaches of the Florida Panhandle.
 Administration officials said the agreement, if approved by Congress, would ultimately protect about 765,000 acres in three preserves in the Everglades, the Big Cypress National Preserve, Florida Panther National Wildlife Refuge and Ten Thousand Islands National Wildlife Refuge. 
 Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida said the action made sense for the environment but acknowledged that it was also likely to help his re-election campaign. 
As the two Bush brothers sat side by side in the Oval Office, the president announced a proposal to pay the wealthy Collier family of Florida about $120 million for mineral rights under the three preserves, which are home to several endangered species. President Bush also announced an agreement to pay $115 million to three oil companies, including the ChevronTexaco Corporation, to buy out offshore oil and gas leases, effectively preventing drilling about 25 miles south of Pensacola.
Florida politicians of both parties have joined state voters to fiercely resist drilling off the coast for nearly two decades, setting the state apart from Gulf states like Texas, Alabama and Louisiana, which have welcomed offshore drilling.
Facing a similar outcry over the prospect of drilling near the Florida Keys off southwestern Florida, the Clinton administration in 1995 bought back 73 leases for about $200 million.
"Florida is known worldwide for its beautiful coastal waters and the Everglades," President Bush said in a statement issued after a 20-minute meeting in the Oval Office. "Today we are acting to preserve both."
Environmental groups praised the president's plan, but some said it was politically motivated. 
"It's a great move for Florida, but it's essentially a $235 million campaign contribution from the taxpayer's pocket to re-elect Jeb Bush," said Philip Clapp, the president of the National Environmental Trust.
Other environmentalists said the president's decision reflected a double standard, particularly when the Bush administration has moved aggressively to open up the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska to oil and gas drilling, a policy rejected last month by the Senate.
"We hope this signals a change in the administration's approach to energy security," said Lisa Speer, a policy analyst at the Natural Resources Defense Council in New York. 
Both Jeb Bush and administration officials said today that there was nothing inconsistent about a White House that was effectively opposed to drilling in Florida and in favor of it in Alaska.
"I find nothing ironic about it at all," Jeb Bush said. "Each one of these cases needs to be looked at in terms of the balance -- to preserve the natural environment or the economic interests of a state." 
Governor Bush made no effort to dispute the political benefits. Asked if his 2002 campaign would benefit from his brother's action, he replied, "I hope so."
Then he added, "But more importantly, it is good public policy, and when here's a convergence of good politics and good public policy, I don't think we should be ashamed about it."
Representative Mark Foley, Republican of Florida, said today that there was "no question" that today's action would help the president's re-election chances in Florida, which he won by only 537 votes in 2000. 
The White House said the president had based his decision on community opinion.
"The president believes it is important to work closely with states and local communities and listen to their concerns," said Scott McClellan, a White House spokesman. "In Alaska, there is strong state and local community support for opening a small portion of ANWR to environmentally responsible exploration."
David B. Struhs, Florida's secretary of environmental protection, said Jeb Bush did not have to lean hard on his brother to oppose drilling in Florida.
"Let's put it this way," Mr. Struhs said. "There were 16 million Floridians all leaning in the same direction. Jeb Bush was 16 million and one."
Congressional aides said today that approval of the agreement on the Everglades was not assured, suggesting that there could be resistance on both fiscal and political grounds. 
Under the proposal, the Colliers, a pioneer Florida family with vast landholdings in the state, would transfer mineral rights on about 347,000 acres that it could have explored for oil in exchange for $120 million in cash or credits for future oil bids.
The deal was negotiated between the administration and descendants of Barron Gift Collier, who used a fortune built in streetcar advertising in the early 1900's to buy 1.3 million acres of southwestern Florida that eventually became Collier and Hendry Counties. The family has over the years turned over 260,000 acres to the government through swaps, sales and donations, including the original 76,000 acres for Big Cypress. Family members have made contributions to President Bush and Republican causes but have also supported Democratic candidates.
The payment to the three companies will settle a suit brought in July 2000 by Chevron, Conoco Inc. and the Murphy Exploration and Production Company, a unit of the Murphy Oil Corporation. The companies said they were being blocked from extracting oil and natural gas from tracts that the federal government sold them in the 1980's. Two of 11 leases in a geologic formation known as the Destin Dome would be reserved for possible exploration by Murphy after 2012 but only if the state and federal governments agreed.
Longtime opponents of drilling welcomed the agreement.
"We think this is a fantastic victory for Florida's coast," said Mark Ferrulo, director of the Florida Public Interest Research Group. While he said the opponents would have preferred that all 11 leases be relinquished, he said the group could "live with" the suspension of the two leases until 2012 as long as the state had veto power over drilling.
Fred R. Gorell, a spokesman for ChevronTexaco, said the payments would allow the company to recover its expenses on the project.
"While we are very disappointed that we will not be able to develop the Destin Dome resource, this settlement address the concerns of the parties involved and reimburses us for the investment we have made to date," Mr. Gorell said, adding that his company's share of the money would be $46 million.
According to the suit filed in 2000, the companies acquired the leases for $10.5 million but spent heavily on exploration activities, increasing their investment to an estimated $100 million.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President George W. Bush, right, and Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida were together in the Oval Office yesterday to announce a preservation plan to buy oil and gas rights in Florida for $120 million from a wealthy family. (Reuters)(pg. A18) Map of Florida highlighting Destin Dome natural gas field: Two leases in Destin Dome would be held for possible exploration. (pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (92%); NATIONAL PARKS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); BEACHES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); POLITICS (79%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); OIL & GAS LEASES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); APPROVALS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ELECTION ISSUES; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS; WILDLIFE SANCTUARIES; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; GAS (FUEL) 

COMPANY: CHEVRON CORP (56%)

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%) BUMILLER, ELISABETH; HULSE, CARL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BUSH, JEB (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENSACOLA, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (99%); ALASKA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); ARCTIC (79%) FLORIDA; EVERGLADES (FLA); BIG CYPRESS NATIONAL PRESERVE (FLA); FLORIDA PANTHER NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE; TEN THOUSAND ISLANDS NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE (FLA)

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002 



740 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Labor Dispute to Halt Most Aer Lingus Flights 

BYLINE:  By BRIAN LAVERY 

DATELINE: DUBLIN, May 29 

 BODY:
The drastic plans of a management trying to stave off bankruptcy and the resolve of a union determined to hold its own are set to collide Thursday, largely grounding Aer Lingus, the state-owned Irish airline.
 At stake, besides the travel plans of 20,000 passengers a day, is the airline's future as a viable business that the Irish government badly wants to sell, with possible repercussions for other planned privatizations of enterprises like the national electric and gas utilities. 
 The unionized pilots at Aer Lingus will stage a one-day strike on Thursday, grounding the airline's fleet and forcing the cancellation of most of its 180 flights, including those due to carry thousands of Irish soccer fans to Japan and South Korea for the start of the World Cup soccer tournament on Saturday.
Aer Lingus has hired outside aircraft and pilots to provide a skeleton service on the airline's most important routes that day, including the daily trans-Atlantic flight to New York and shuttle flights to Heathrow Airport in London. 
But it has canceled all flights on Friday and Saturday and has said it will consider daily the restarting of operations after that, with the board meeting on Thursday to discuss options for Sunday. The move took the union by surprise and introduced an aggressive new tone to Irish labor relations.
"Clearly, the company has set itself the goal of breaking the union in this dispute," said Michael Landers, assistant general secretary and pilots' representative at the union, known as Impact. "It's intimidation and bully-boy tactics of the highest order."
Willie Walsh, a former Aer Lingus pilot who last fall became the airline's fifth chief executive in three years, has so far played a quiet role in the conflict, and he is not well known in business circles here. "He likes to win," Mr. Landers said. "And I don't think he thinks he has won unless you've lost."
The pilots object to new scheduling arrangements that cut the required rest between flights from 12 to 10 hours. Seven pilots have been suspended without pay for refusing to fly after 10 hours off, and a pilots' association has placed large advertisements in newspapers arguing that the reduced rest period threatens passenger safety. 
The scheduling change is one of many measures in a drastic survival plan adopted earlier this year after a disastrous 2001. The hoof-and-mouth outbreak in England and the terror attacks on Sept. 11 both caused sharp declines in Aer Lingus's passenger loads; by December the airline was hemorrhaging nearly $2 million in cash a day. It lost 140 million euros ($130 million) for the year.
The airline says the survival plan is now nonnegotiable, because a government labor relations mediator has already brokered sacrifices and compromises for various parts of the company that have been accepted by every employee group except the pilots. "That is something that we will not compromise on," said Dan Loughrey, Aer Lingus's group corporate affairs director. "It's just very, very clear that we must get this implemented if the company is to have a viable future." The pilots have accepted some other steps, like a two-year wage freeze.
According to Mr. Loughrey, flights had to be canceled for Friday and Saturday because the strike on Thursday will have effects that last into the middle of next week, in particular by disrupting staffing for the trans-Atlantic routes.
"I don't think the management are bluffing," said Colum McCarthy, economist with DKM, consultants in Dublin. "A one-day strike is very destructive to an airline."
In years gone by, the Irish government would have stepped in like a heavy-handed parent to manage a conflict like this. But European Union rules now strictly limit the financial aid that national governments can give airlines, even state-owned ones, and the government minister who oversees Aer Lingus lost her seat in Parliament in the election two weeks ago; her successor will not be appointed for at least another week.
Industry experts say that shutting service on the national airline will be devastating for tourism, a crucial industry here. "This is a very bad message that we're sending out, that you can't get in or out of the country," Tony Brazil, president of the Irish Association of Travel Agents, told RTE Radio.
Aer Lingus has suffered in recent years at the hands of new entrants like Ryanair, especially on short-haul routes. Ryanair, Europe's biggest discount airline, carries 10.5 million passengers a year with just 1,500 employees, while Aer Lingus employs 6,000 people to carry 6 million passengers, according to Sean Barrett, an economics professor at Trinity College, Dublin. Aer Lingus has already shed more than 2,000 jobs, but "there is no doubt that it is still a substantially overmanned operation," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael Landers, left, assistant general secretary and pilots' representative at the union, and Willie Walsh, right, a former Aer Lingus pilot who last fall became the airline's fifth chief executive in three years. (Photographs by Photocall Ireland Ltd.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); SOCCER (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (88%); STRIKES (78%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (77%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); AIR SERVICE (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (71%); SPORTS FANS (69%); TOURNAMENTS (68%); TERRORISM (60%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (60%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (56%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ORGANIZED LABOR; STRIKES; ORGANIZED LABOR; LABOR; SOCCER; WORLD CUP (SOCCER); ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY 

COMPANY: AER LINGUS GROUP PLC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: AER LINGUS 

TICKER: AERL (LSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%)

PERSON: WILLIE WALSH (77%) LAVERY, BRIAN; WALSH, WILLIE; LANDERS, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRELAND (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); ENGLAND (79%) IRELAND; JAPAN; SOUTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002 



741 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 30, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: Western Companies Warm to Russia 

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, May 29 

 BODY:
The seals of approval are coming thick and fast for President Vladimir V. Putin's Russia these days.
 Today, the European Union said it would recognize Russia as a market economy, an upgrading of its status under the union's trade regulations and a designation that Moscow had sought for years. In a statement, Romano Prodi, president of the union's executive body, the European Commission, called it "fit and proper" that the 15-nation union "reward the considerable efforts" Russia has made to remake its economy. 
 Just last week, President Bush was spreading smiles and handshakes in Moscow and talking approvingly of expanding commercial ties and American investment in Russia. 
These developments both ratify and give new impetus to a business trend that has been gathering speed recently: American and other Western companies doing business in Russia as if it were part of Europe and not outer space.
"For investors, it's very important to feel comfortable with the country as a whole," said Kiril Dmitriyev, an investment manager at Delta Capital Management, with $200 million invested in Russia. Recent events "raised confidence," he added. "Russia is becoming integrated into the world economy instead of staying alien."
Beyond confidence, there are also practical pluses of improved trade status. With more access to foreign markets, Russia is a more desirable place to invest. Fewer trade barriers would allow multinational companies to use Russia, where labor is cheap, as a production base for exporting to Europe. So far, however, foreign companies are setting up shop here to sell to the undeveloped Russian market with its 147 million people.
The Frito-Lay unit of PepsiCo is tending new acres of green potato fields just south of Moscow. General Motors and Ford Motor are each due to complete work on new car plants in Russia this summer. The American candy maker Mars recently bought a factory near Moscow to expand its food lines. Even Wal-Mart Stores has sent executives to look around, though the company is silent about particulars.
"We have far more meetings now," said Andrew Somers, president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Moscow, adding that he recently helped Nike, Dow Chemical and even a midsize American kitchen fixtures maker get the lay of the land here. 
"They were looking at Russia not as an exotic planetary phenomenon but as an integral part of the European market," Mr. Somers said. "It was a refreshing change."
How fast the new era of good feeling will turn into big investment and trade numbers is another question. Russia is not yet an important export market or supplier to the United States directly -- it accounts for less than 1 percent of American trade annually -- and it has received only $5 billion in direct American investment over the last decade, one-eighth of the figure for China.
American businesspeople who have come to firsthand grips with the many petty frustrations of doing business here know why. 
Intel, for example, has been attracted to Russia for years, because of the large pool of capable programming talent available. But obstacles ranging from restrictive capital controls and irritating customs snags to poor copyright and contract-law enforcement have deterred the company from taking any equity stakes in local ventures.
"When we import computers for work, it takes an enormous amount of money," said Stephen Chase, president of Intel's Russian branch. "In this day and age, that is ridiculous. We see countries like China and India with their arms open. Russia is moving in the right direction, but will it take five months or five years?"
The same obstacles face European companies investing here, but many of them have the advantage of long experience and contacts stretching back to Soviet times, especially companies from nations like Sweden that were neutral in the cold war. Proximity also simplifies their dealings with Russia somewhat, especially in Russia's biggest export industry, energy.
Some of the investment that is beginning to flow into Russia is off the official statistical radar. Since January, according to Roland Nash of Renaissance Capital, a Moscow-based brokerage firm, foreign companies have made five major investments in Russia totaling more than $1 billion. But most of that went untallied because, technically, the deals were done and the assets transferred between entities incorporated outside Russia. 
"It's clear that it's happening, but the official figures aren't really picking up on it," Mr. Nash said.
Another sign of the changed climate is the flurry of new private equity funds that have set up shop here over the last six months. These funds buy stakes in companies that are not publicly traded, hoping to sell the holdings later at a profit to a multinational company or in a public offering.
"Russia stands out globally as being a hot place for raising private equity funds," said Michael Calvey, co-managing partner at Baring Vostok Capital Partners, which finished putting together a new $205 million fund in December.
A prime target for American investment. which President Bush mentioned last week, is Russia's vast energy sector, where foreign involvement has so far been fairly scarce. Last fall, Exxon Mobil broke the ice for big American companies by pledging $4 billion to begin developing oil fields off Russia's eastern coast, and BP, despite some bitter early experiences, increased its stake in a Russian oil company.
The industry sector that has attracted the largest share of the $20 billion or so in direct investment is food processing. As Russians' incomes rise, their habits change. More people have more money for snack foods and less time for food preparation. Also, the new choices are a welcome change from decades of Soviet central planning that paid little attention to people's needs.
"Russia is a great opportunity; the upside potential is huge," said John Stevenson, president of Frito-Lay in central Europe and Russia, where it spent $40 million on a potato chip factory. "It's not an effortless process. If you look like you're in a hurry, you're prone to be taken advantage of."
The Russian government says it will not be long before the hurdles and snags are ironed out and the biggest multinational companies will find Russia an easy and hospitable place to invest. But analysts and investors say the Russian economy will not be fully restored to health until there are ample opportunities for smaller companies as well, and that day may still be some time away.
"Russia needs more than the Fortune 500 companies to thrive," Mr. Stevenson said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: G.M. is building a paint shop for its plant in the Russian city of Togliatti, where it will make off-road vehicles. (GM-AvtoVAZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); CHEMICALS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); TRENDS (74%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); SNACK FOOD MFG (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%) FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; MULTINATIONAL COMPANIES; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; PRODUCTION 

COMPANY: MARS INC (64%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); PEPSICO INC (53%); FRITO-LAY INC (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); WAL-MART STORES INC (52%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (83%) EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN COMMISSION; FRITO-LAY INC; PEPSICO INC; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; MARS INC; WAL-MART STORES INC; NIKE INC; DOW CHEMICAL CO; INTEL CORP; BARING VOSTOK CAPITAL PARTNERS; EXXON MOBIL; BP PLC; DELTA CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); PEP (NYSE) (53%); GM (NYSE) (53%); WMT (NYSE) (52%); DOW (SWX) (52%); DOW (NYSE) (52%); DOW (LSE) (52%); 4850 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2064 CANDY & OTHER CONFECTIONERY PRODUCTS (64%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (52%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (52%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (73%); ROMANO PRODI (73%) PRODI, ROMANO; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); TAVERNISE, SABRINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%) RUSSIA; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002 



742 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Escapes; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: HAVENS; 
WeekenderNew London, Conn.

BYLINE:  By JENNIE GREEN 

 BODY:
 ONE of the best things about New London, beyond its location on the shore of Long Island Sound at the mouth of the Thames River, is its total lack of congestion and pretension compared with the nearby towns of Stonington and Mystic. While they are primarily tourist destinations, New London is a city, with all of the benefits and drawbacks that cities have to offer. It is a complex place with ethnic and economic diversity, with both low-income housing and exclusive enclaves that have restricted access to pristine beaches and spectacular waterfront views. These days, New London appears to be in the process of reinventing itself, partly as a result of Pfizer's new global research and development headquarters on a previously abandoned 22-acre brownfield peninsula.

Beaches and Landmarks

Established in 1659, New London is a traditional waterfront community, with historic landmarks like the Nathan Hale School House (1755) and the New London Harbor Lighthouse (1801). The city is also home to the Coast Guard Academy and to Connecticut College. New London covers approximately 5.5 square miles, with a population of about 22,300. Weekend residents have plenty of malls, movie theaters, coffeehouses, and bookstores to visit on rainy days. But the city's most compelling resources are still the beaches, the quiet shady streets that smell like salt water and freshly cut grass, and the low tone of the foghorn on overcast days.

Free Time

At New London's crescent shaped Ocean Beach, you can wade in the sound, swim in an Olympic-size pool, or take the children to the state-of-the-art playground that was reconstructed last year. Ocean Beach Park also has a large water slide as well as a new nature walk along Alewife Cove. Boating is another popular activity, although owning is the way to go, because renting is difficult. The vehicle-free trail from Connecticut College to Fort Trumbull State Park is ideal for walking, running and biking. Harkness Memorial Park, which is pastoral and lush, is the site for evening music concerts throughout the summer. The Eugene O'Neill Playwrights Conference continues to thrive; so does the newly renovated Guard Theater, home to both plays and movies. Ferry service to Block Island, Foxwoods Casino and Eastern Long Island is regular.

Looking for Houses

New London real estate tends to be divided into two categories: waterfront, with private beach rights, or not. An idyllic place to buy is within the Neptune Park Beach Association, where residents share four private beaches along a winding seawall that is contiguous to Ocean Beach. Currently, there is one five-bedroom house for sale in that neighborhood for $695,000, according to Re/Max Property Consultants in Groton. Along Pequot Avenue, which runs along the water and where the houses also have private beach rights and lighthouse views, a three-bedroom, two-bath, 1,700-square-foot home is on the market for $350,000; a three-bedroom, four-bath, 3,678-square-foot house with a deck is $580,000. Go a block or two inland, however, and you can buy a 2,000-square-foot colonial-style house for $179,900 -- just a short bike ride from Ocean Beach.
Traditionally, New London has drawn weekend residents from Hartford and Springfield, Mass., while New Yorkers have gravitated toward quaint, rural towns like Essex, Old Lyme and Stonington. "But that's beginning to change," said Cynthia Clegg, a representative of the Chamber of Commerce. "As New London evolves, it becomes increasingly recognized as this funky town. It is also part of the last preserve along the New England shoreline." 

Shops and Galleries

Manhattanites who rarely get the chance to zip into vast parking lots might find the expansive Crystal Mall a refreshing change, as well as the nearby Target and the Wal-Mart in Groton. There are also small shops and galleries like the Alva Art Gallery and Yah-Ta-Hey Gallery, and a farmers' market every weekend. Specialty food shops include Jacques Fruit Store, Lee's Oriental Market and Saeed's International Market.

Pizza and Seafood

If you like New England-style pizza -- with a thicker crust that's crispy on the bottom -- go directly to the Ocean Pizza Palace on Ocean Avenue. Eat fried seafood or grilled hot dogs outside at Captain Scott's Lobster Dock or Fred's Shanty. Timothy's is an upscale choice for American food, while Schooner's is nice for surf and turf with water views. The Lighthouse Inn has a new owner and a chef who once worked for Clint Eastwood. Ethnic restaurants include Bangkok City Thai Cuisine, Little Tokyo, Zavala (a Mexican restaurant) and Golden Wok.

Getting There
The toughest thing about getting to New London is getting out of Manhattan. Once you pick up I-95 in the northeast Bronx, it's a straight, two-hour shot north to Exit 75. The bus from Port Authority and the train from Penn Station on Amtrak take two hours to downtown New London.

GRAPHIC: Photo: SIGHTS AND SAND -- The city, which offers both urban style and pristine beaches, is seen here from Fort Trumbull, a state historical park built during the Revolutionary War to defend the harbor. (C. M. Glover for The New York Times) Map of Connecticut highlighting New London.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (90%); LIGHTHOUSES & LIGHTSHIPS (89%); STATE PARKS (78%); WATER PARKS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); SWIMMING (75%); SPORTS (75%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (74%); CHILDREN (74%); FERRIES (73%); HISTORIC SITES (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (72%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (71%); BROWNFIELD SITES (69%); RUNNING (69%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (68%); DRAMA LITERATURE (66%); WRITERS (66%); THEATER & DRAMA (65%); TOURISM (57%) HOUSING; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES 

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (56%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (56%); PFEB (BRU) (56%); PFE (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (56%)

PERSON: GREEN, JENNIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (96%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) CONNECTICUT, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2002 



743 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: ON STAGE AND OFF 

BYLINE:  By Jesse McKinley 

 BODY:
New Ideas For Next Season
While the bigwigs of Broadway will spend the weekend celebrating the end of this season, producers Off Broadway are completing plans for the next one.
 It has been a rough year for many downtown troupes; beyond the effects of Sept. 11 and the lingering recession, several also lost their homes. One of those was the MCC Theater, which lost the lease on its space at 120 West 28th Street in Chelsea, where the company had been since 1990. 
 Its 2002-03 season will be spent uptown, at the brand new Shubert 42nd Street theater complex, at 410 West 42nd Street in Clinton, on the refurbished Theater Row. Once the company settles in, it plans to continue its mission of producing challenging new plays by new writers. 
One of those writers, Kate Robin, may be familiar to fans of HBO's "Six Feet Under"; she is the executive story editor of that show. Ms. Robin is also the author of "Intrigue With Faye," a new play about a paranoid urban couple who decide to videotape each other's every move to encourage a sense of trust. (What a great idea.) Without giving away the ending, things go awry. MCC will stage "Faye" next season, though exactly when is uncertain.
At the Atlantic Theater Company, meanwhile, the artistic director Neil Pepe has signed the acclaimed Irish writer Conor McPherson ("The Weir") to direct Mr. McPherson's 1999 play, "Dublin Carol," which will be receiving its New York premiere. The story of a middle-aged undertaker with personal troubles (the family, the bottle), this three-character drama had been expected to come to New York this season, but was delayed by scheduling problems. Those have cleared up. Mr. McPherson arrives in September for casting; rehearsals begin in January.
Mr. McPherson, 30, has just finished directing a film, "The Actors," starring Michael Caine as an unemployed actor who seeks alternate, and nefarious, streams of income. (It's not waiting tables.) 
"I never know where my ideas come from," Mr. McPherson said yesterday, speaking from Dublin. "I'm just grateful when they come."
"Dublin Carol" will be presented with David Richenthal, the Broadway producer who holds the play's commercial rights. 
Also on the Atlantic agenda for 2002-03 is George S. Kaufman's 1925 comedy "Butter and Egg Man," about a Midwestern rube who decides to become a Broadway producer. (What a great idea.) The show, to be directed by David Pittu, had been planned for this season, but was bumped to make room for a revival of "Hobson's Choice."
New York Theater Workshop in the East Village also delayed a production this season, Caryl Churchill's "Far Away," which wowed London critics when it opened in November 2000 but was pushed back because of the busy film schedule of the director, Stephen Daldry. Now, it will lead off a season that will include adaptations of two best-selling novels,
'Cavedweller," by Dorothy Allison, and Michael Cunningham's "Flesh and Blood."
A couple of details on both plays: "Cavedweller," about a rock star who returns to her Southern home, will be directed by Michael Greif ("Rent"); "Flesh and Blood," about a big Greek family, will star Cherry Jones. 
Two other productions: Amy Freed's comedy "The Beard of Avon" and an updated take on Shakespeare's "Merchant of Venice" by the Hungarian director Robert Alfoldi. 
Liev Schreiber, who played a mean Iago in a production of "Othello" at the Joseph Papp Public Theater last year, is a candidate for Shylock. Which, it seems, would be a great idea.

Ka-ching!
Who needs the Tonys? The producers of "The Graduate," which got a whopping zero Tony nominations, said yesterday that their show had recouped its $1.8 million investment after 10 weeks of performances. 
The play, adapted from the classic 1967 movie, also has $4 million in advance sales. Even better news for the producers: Kathleen Turner, who seems to love playing the seductive Mrs. Robinson, has decided to stay on; she will appear in the production through Nov. 17. Alicia Silverstone, who plays Mrs. Robinson's daughter, Elaine, also looks likely to stay until then.
It is not the only show to recoup this week -- "Metamorphoses," which featured exactly no stars, did as well, returning its $1.65 million capitalization to its investors. Unlike "The Graduate," "Metamorphoses" garnered Tony attention; it received three nominations, including one for best play.
And then there's that minor hit "Mamma Mia!," which has also recouped its investment on Broadway. The capitalization: $10 million. The time it took to recoup: under 28 weeks. The overriding emotion of pretty much every other producer on Broadway: envy.

Revival? Resuscitation
The opposite of love, it is said, is not hate; it's neglect. That, at least, is the idea behind the missions of two Off Off Broadway companies that specialize in rescuing forgotten plays. 
The most noted is the Mint Theater on West 43rd Street in Clinton; it has done admirable work in recent years unearthing plays like last year's production of "Rutherford and Son," Githa Sowerby's 1912 drama about a tyrannical glassworks boss and his suffering family.
Up next for the Mint is "The Charity That Began at Home," an early 20th-century comedy by St. John Hankin, a buddy of George Bernard Shaw. The play involves a genteel British family that invites a rogue's gallery of scoundrels to its country estate.
Jonathan Bank, the company's artistic director, said that he had found the play in a collection of Hankin's work, which he discovered -- where else? -- on the Internet. 
"This is as obscure as they come," he said.
A more recently forgotten work, John O'Hara's 1961 melodrama, "Veronique," will be part of the Peccadillo Theater Company's season at the Bank Street Theater (155 Bank Street in the West Village). Kevin Kennedy, the general manager of the Peccadillo, said the production would be the New York premiere of the play, which is about a gang of 1920's bohemians whose fun is interrupted by a blunt object. It runs from June 11 to Aug. 4.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Conor McPherson's "Dublin Carol" will play Off Broadway next season. (James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); WRITERS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); THEATER (58%) THEATER; TONY AWARDS (THEATER AWARDS) 

PERSON: ROBIN, KATE; MCPHERSON, CONOR; KAUFMAN, GEORGE S (1889-1961); CHURCHILL, CARYL; HANKIN, ST JOHN; O'HARA, JOHN (1905-70); MCKINLEY, JESSE 

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (94%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) IRELAND (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: INTRIGUE WITH FAYE (PLAY); DUBLIN CAROL (PLAY); BUTTER AND EGG MAN (PLAY); FAR AWAY (PLAY); GRADUATE, THE (PLAY); METAMORPHOSES (PLAY); CHARITY THAT BEGAN AT HOME, THE (PLAY); VERONIQUE (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2002 



744 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: HAVENS; 
House Shares: Dysfunction On the Beach

BYLINE:  By KIMBERLY STEVENS 

 BODY:
AFTER just one weekend at his summer share house in Spring Lake, N.J., Matt Brown fired off a corporate-style memo to the other 16 members of the house, alerting them to a meeting.
 "We had our first weekend out there, and let's just say, we already have all sorts of issues that need to be ironed out," said Mr. Brown, a 30-year-old financial adviser. 
 The season of sharing has begun. People who are accustomed to living alone during the year, or perhaps with one other person, have started making weekend treks to houses that are occupied by dozens -- some friends and many strangers, connected only by their desire to flee their regular lives and fulfill a "beach blanket bingo" fantasy. And what happiness means to one person is definitely not what it means to another. 
As the house manager, Mr. Brown decided who would be allowed to spend between $1,500 and $3,000 a summer for space in his house, and now he's the one who will have to orchestrate things so that people get along. It's like being a cross between a chief executive and a therapist. After just one weekend, he said, there were three obvious issues to be addressed:
* Couples who go to bed at midnight awakened by singles who stay out until 4 a.m. and then return to the house to party until sunup.
* Mooching food.
* Lawn chairs tossed into the bushes.
"It's a tough job, but someone's got to do it," he said. "I think it feeds into my perfectionist streak." Mr. Brown, like his fellow house managers, will have to find ways to resolve these and other issues, which may seem small but can loom very large over the course of a summer when people are paying thousands of dollars for their rooms. Dramas worthy of soap operas are most likely to ignite in the kitchen or at the barbecue.
"Last summer the biggest personality clashes happened over the groceries," said Sara Walker, a 26-year-old TV producer in Manhattan who had a share on Fire Island. "There was the group that wanted to shop at Garden of Eden and stock up on things like olives and brie, and then there was the group that only cared about having the ingredients for mudslides and tequila shots," she said. "It was the foodies versus white trash America," she added. The house manager, she said, was crucial in mediating the conflicts, and set up a system for shopping for food. "It was a pain, but it saved us all from a lot of arguing," she said.
When managers do their job, the summer share becomes a bonding moment that can lead to lifelong friendships. "If a manager is well organized and meets his end of the agreement, that's when you get a great house," said Russell Terlecki, 32, an actor. "But I've heard of so many places that sound more like the Enron scandal than a beach house."
Unpaid bills, overcrowded houses, no rules, bounced checks and lawsuits can all result from an inept manager.
They are the C.E.O.'s of summer, running shares in the Hamptons, on the Jersey Shore and in Martha's Vineyard, among other places. They rent or buy the house, pick the people who will share it, handle the cash flow and most difficult of all, deal with the mix of personalities.
Some do it not to make money or to get a free summer for themselves, but simply because they like the role. Lisa Lowenthal, who has run a successful house in Quogue, on Long Island, for four years, said the job of house manager suited her perfectly. "There's always one in every crowd," she said. "Yes, I was the student government dork in high school, and I was the president of my sorority. I guess running a summer share house just comes naturally to me."
The lucky house managers will spend the next few weeks trying to form a functioning group out of a mass of people. The unlucky ones are still struggling to sell shares, to find bodies to fill the houses so they don't lose thousands of dollars. 
A glance at the back page of New York magazine offers plenty of share opportunities. Most house managers say the share house market is down, and they blame it on the economy. According to Zachary Tunick, 37, owner of Hampton Real Estate and Development, the share house market is down, but the rental market has been hit even harder.
"Property owners who are willing to rent to share-house managers have a much better chance of renting than those who hand their property over to a broker," he said. "Especially if the property is not A list, and it's B or C list," he added.
Even if the house has vacancies, house managers have to be careful about who they let in. Mr. Brown said he mainly lets friends in the house, and he checks people's references very carefully, ever since a particularly bad experience a few years ago.
"I actually had to call the police about a guest in the house. She drank too much, screamed and yelled, and refused to listen when members of the house politely asked her to settle down," he said.
In some towns, the house manager has to offer much more than an organized setting for the people taking shares. He has to provide entree to the hot clubs and restaurants. Mr. Terlecki said people who join certain share houses want to be guaranteed social opportunities. Many house managers establish relationships with club promoters for exactly this reason. 
Left on their own, summer visitors may be excluded from the trendiest places. "Let's face it. If you show up at a hot club with three of your guy friends, you're not getting in," Mr. Terlecki said.
Likewise, house managers want their people to live up to a certain standard. Mr. Terlecki said many managers require a photo as part of the screening process. "The Hamptons can be a very shallow place, and I've noticed that many managers just care about how many hot chicks you can bring to the table or how many clubs you are connected with."
House managers have a lot to lose if they fail to organize a house properly. Some of them buy houses as investments, and if they don't rent them, paying the mortgage can become a problem.
Phillip Alfus, 53, who has his own recruiting firm in New York, has shared management responsibilities for a house in Westhampton for more than 10 years. He and his business partner fill the house each summer with people who have bought shares. There are about 30 people that split weekends, so typically there are about 15 people staying at the house on any given weekend. 
He still has vacancies, and last week he put an ad in New York magazine looking for more people. But protecting his investment means interviewing people carefully about their likes and dislikes. He tells people there are no drugs allowed, and that it's not a party house. 
"We try to find people that are like us and enjoy the same types of things," he said. "And we're not alone. There are houses for smokers, people in A.A., tennis players, lawyers -- God forbid -- singles only and the list goes on and on," he said.
Even when a group of people gets along, there can still be drama and anxiety. "A share house can easily turn into one big group-therapy session," said Mr. Alfus. "It's up to the managers to kind of set the tone." Most New Yorkers who share houses in the summer, he said, live alone during the year, or with just one other person. 
"We've had people leave after the first weekend, because it was too much to share a beach chair, or chip in for a group dinner," he said. "For many, the summer share house is their entree out of isolation, and it can be tougher than they expect. A good manager will try to ease this stress, and for most, everything is fine after a few weekends."

GRAPHIC: Photos: CLOSE -- Tenants relax on the deck of Lisa Lowen-thal's share house in Quogue, on Long Island. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. F1); GROUPS AT PLAY -- Clockwise from top left: Matt Brown freewheels in the grass with Kristen Peterson; cocktail hour at what Lisa Lowenthal's fellow renters affectionately call their "summer mansion" in Quogue on Long Island; Ms. Peterson on the offensive in table tennis. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times); (Dith Pran/The New York Times); (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. F7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LITIGATION (74%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (67%) HOUSING; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

PERSON: STEVENS, KIMBERLY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2002 



745 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: JOURNEYS; 
The Factory Tour Redrawn With a Box Of 64 Colors

BYLINE:  By LESLIE KAUFMAN 

 BODY:
IT is a little after noon on a cloudy Sunday and my son Samuel, who is 4 1/2 years old, is nearly finished with his masterpiece. Drawing with markers on a projector slide, my little Jackson Pollock has created a riot of colorful squiggles -- a bold cobalt line intersecting with razor-thin slashes of green, golden and orange -- and is now projecting an oversized image on the opposite wall.
"Look, Mom," he yelled. "It's my rainbow." 
 So thrilled was he with his creation that he began demanding that an older girl standing at the light table next to him look up as well. She, sensibly enough, ignored him while she put the finishing touches on her own pastoral scene. 
 We are in the Light Zone room of the Crayola Factory in Easton, Pa., a place I have to admit I was slightly embarrassed to be visiting. 
As parents go, my husband and I are pretty deaf to the siren song of most toy marketers. We read Pooh in the A. A. Milne original and ignore the Disney rewrite. We have no "Toy Story" or "Star Wars" action figures. The kids sleep in plain pajamas -- no Tweetie Bird imprints for us.
Still, when we heard other parents talk about taking their kids to the Crayola Factory (which bills itself as "a hands-on discovery center") and how much fun they had, we felt our resistance melting, particularly since Sam loves drawing with his Crayolas and Joe, our 1-year-old, likes eating them.
After all, what could be more American than Crayolas? Manufactured by the Binney & Smith Corporation for nearly 100 years, these crayons are an undeniable childhood icon. (According to the company, the average American child has gone through 730 crayons by his or her 10th birthday.) So we headed to Easton to witness the miracle of modern crayon manufacturing.
We pictured giant vats of steaming waxy liquids and rows of naked sticks awaiting their paper jackets, with names like "Timberwolf" and "Macaroni and Cheese." We were curious to see how 164 colors got organized into a single box and how the little sharpener was inserted.
But our experience didn't quite match our expectations. 
That is because the Crayola Factory's name is a misnomer. Few Crayolas are actually manufactured at the Easton facility; the bulk of the grimy and occasionally dangerous work of dyeing, molding and packaging 13 million crayons a year is done six miles away on a real shop floor. The shiny new Crayola Factory is the result of a partnership between Binney & Smith and the town of Easton.
In the 1800's, Easton, which sits at the confluence of the Lehigh and Delaware Rivers, was a major coal shipping center. By the 1990's, it was just another economically depressed Rust Belt town. That is when Binney & Smith offered to help develop Two Rivers landing, a brick-and-glass complex that houses the Crayola Factory in a former department store. 
Visitors to the Easton attraction (for which anyone over 3 must pay $8 to enter) are treated to a re-enactment of the crayon manufacturing process. Noses pressed to the glass, children watch as crayons are made in a single batch, labeled, sorted by color and stored in the Binney & Smith's signature yellow-and-green boxes. There are few sounds, and even fewer smells; the process has been sanitized and stripped of messy elements. While adults may be disappointed to see such a modest display of machinery, the children are thrilled by the show.
EXCEPT for the ticket counter on the first floor (and the nearby McDonald's, the only on-site source of food), most of the Crayola factory is spread out over the second floor. There, visitors find a series of rooms -- the Creative Studio and Dreamscapes -- that flow into each other and form a circle of about a dozen activity stations beginning and ending at one central staircase to the outside. The Easton Press & Bindery highlights different types of printing and is well-equipped from start to finish, with everything from stationery cards to small sinks for cleanup.
The passage then narrows and darkens to heighten the experience of the Light Zone that Sam found so fascinating. Other exhibitions, like Wax Works, a tight circle of tall Crayolas that each holds melted wax that can be daubed on cards for decoration, are tucked into their own intimate spaces.
At the height of the day when crowds were thickest, traveling the circuit was uncomfortably like negotiating a maze. Sam wondered off, as he is wont to do, and as I began to shout his name I could barely hear my own voice over the rising cacophony of crying babies and shrieking pre-schoolers.
I took off in the direction I had last seen him meandering, but it was only after elbowing through a crowded narrow corridor and poking my head into several dark but unoccupied corners that I found him again, back in the Light Zone, of course, obliviously penning a new masterpiece.
Though the average exhibition seems best suited to children ages 4 to 8, there is also mercifully the Crayola Color Garden an enclosed area for toddlers, where Joe happily spent more than an hour dumping plastic tomatoes and oranges into barrels and "planting" corn ears into a play soil bed. Meanwhile, Sam walked by the Chalk Walk -- floor-mounted blackboards for drawing on with chalk -- without so much as a nod of interest.
But the Sculpture Station really did get his attention. The room is furnished with big irregularly shaped tables, short stools -- enough for about 100 kids -- and ample supplies of molding clay.
Sam quickly settled in and began intently molding a creature of his imagination: a bee bus. A very intent 45 minutes later he had a vehicle with wings and yellow pipe-cleaner antennae, which has become a regular fixture of his beloved and motley collection of odd modes of transport.
Clearly, he was pleased with his day's work.

IF YOU GO
Getting to Crayola
Easton is direct from New York on Route I-78. Take the first exit in Pennsylvania and follow the signs to the factory. Visitors from Philadelphia should take Route 476 north to Route 22 east. Take the Fourth Street exit, turn left at the end of the ramp and right on Third Street. Crayola is on the right of the traffic circle.
At Crayolafactory.com, you can obtain information on local lodging options and also buy tour tickets ahead. We bought ours at the door, entailing a 20-minute wait.

GRAPHIC: Photos: WAX FIGURES -- At the Crayola factory, distinguished by a sculpture of crayons, visitors can find many applications for Crayola products but the actual manufacturing goes on elsewhere.; BLACKBOARD JUNGLE -- Tyler, Kyle and Connor Seelig draw on a slate-covered sidewalk. (Photographs by Emile Wamsteker for The New York Times)(pg. F4); PROOF -- The world of crayons is on display at the Crayola Factory in Easton, Pa. On tour, Paul Matrecano and Sara Moorhead draw colorful thoughts on glass. (Photographs by Emile Wamsteker for The New York Times)(pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE SUPPLIES MFG (89%); TOYS & GAMES (88%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); CHILDREN (72%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%) CRAYONS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH 

COMPANY: CRAYOLA LLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CRAYOLA (CO) 

INDUSTRY: SIC3952 LEAD PENCILS & ART GOODS (56%)

PERSON: KAUFMAN, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) EASTON (PA)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2002 



746 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: Quebec Pension Agency Is Juggling Two Roles 

BYLINE:  By BERNARD SIMON 

DATELINE: TORONTO, May 30 

 BODY:
For most of its 36 years, the Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec has seen no conflict between its role as a government agency promoting economic independence for Canada's French-speaking province and its obligation to seek the highest returns for millions of Quebecers who entrust their retirement savings and auto insurance premiums to government-sponsored plans.
 But the juggling act has become increasingly difficult to defend as the Caisse has moved beyond its Quebec roots in a quest to become a global asset management powerhouse. 
 Spurred by criticism over some investments and recent lackluster performance, the Quebec government this week named Henri-Paul Rousseau, president of the Laurentian Bank of Canada, which is based in Montreal, to replace Jean-Claude Scraire as the agency's chairman and chief executive.
Just two weeks earlier, Mr. Scraire suggested that the two jobs be split as part of a plan to put more distance between the Caisse and its political masters and said that he would soon be leaving, after 21 years at the Caisse, seven at its helm. 
In its carefully worded news release on the changeover, the Caisse board praised Mr. Rousseau's abilities and thanked Mr. Scraire for his "outstanding contribution." 
Even though criticized, the agency has played a crucial role in Quebec's economy, especially in helping it to recover from the flight of businesses and capital from Montreal to Toronto after the separatist Parti Quebecois first took power in 1976.
The Caisse "has been an extremely sophisticated backer of growth sectors," said James de Wilde, a venture capitalist who works in Montreal and Toronto. "It's been a center of investment banking and venture capital expertise for decades."
Benoit Labonte, president of the Board of Trade of Metropolitan Montreal, said the Caisse was "a big player" in wooing investments in the pharmaceutical, telecommunications, biotechnology and software industries, which have transformed the city's economy in the last 15 years.
The Caisse has become Canada's biggest institutional investor and real estate owner, with total investments of 115.2 billion Canadian dollars ($75 billion) at the end of 2001, almost triple its holdings a decade earlier. Assets under management have grown to more than 140 billion Canadian dollars.
Now, it is setting its sights even higher. "We want to be in the club of the 10 best and biggest in the world," Mr. Scraire said in an interview last week.
The agency's investments outside Canada have grown to 40.3 percent of its total last year from just under 15 percent in 1992. In recent years, it has opened 12 offices around the world, in cities that include Los Angeles and Seattle. It has bought seven big buildings in Manhattan and, according to Mr. Scraire, has recently been a big investor in distressed real estate loans in Japan.
In another leg of its expansion strategy, the Caisse is looking to manage money for institutions outside Quebec. Among those it has signed up are an infrastructure fund in Thailand; Stabilitas, a pension plan in Hungary; and the Samsung Life Insurance Company of South Korea. Last year, the Caisse conducted an actuarial study for Saudi Arabia's pension fund and set up a venture capital fund with local partners in Morocco.
Mr. Scraire said the Caisse now oversees 17 billion to 18 billion Canadian dollars worth of funds for investors outside Quebec. Reflecting the more cosmopolitan nature of its business, the agency last year renamed its investment arm CDP Capital.
But the growth has been punctuated by controversy over the Caisse's dual mandate. Stephen Jarislowsky, a fund manager in Montreal, said, "The mission to do things for Quebec has sometimes been confused with the mission to make money."
For instance, in the run-up to a referendum on Quebec independence in 1995, currency traders disclosed that the Caisse was buying unusually large amounts of Canadian dollars. This fueled suspicions that the province's separatist government had corralled the agency to reinforce the argument that a yes vote would not roil financial markets.
And in 2000, the Caisse threw its weight behind a hostile takeover bid by Quebecor, a media group based in Montreal, for Groupe Videotron, the province's biggest cable TV operator. Videotron had favored a rival offer by Rogers Communications, a cable TV group based in Toronto. The takeover has been costly both for Quebecor, which is struggling with a heavy debt load, and for the Caisse, which has written off half its investment of 2.2 billion Canadian dollars.
In one sense, such interventions are in line with the mission set by the Caisse's founding fathers. The agency was started at the height of Quebec's "Quiet Revolution," which created a new generation of assertive French-speaking entrepreneurs and politicians.
Jean-Claude Delorme, the agency's chief executive before Mr. Scraire, said in an interview last week that while suspicions of government intervention were unfounded, "there is a sort of collective determination on the part of Quebecers to develop the Quebec economy, and that does not exclude a convergence of goals, without anyone suggesting anything to anybody."
Still, pressure for change has grown. Claude Castonguay, a former Quebec cabinet minister, wrote recently in The National Post that controversies like the Videotron investment "undermine the credibility of the Caisse with respect to its independence from political influence."
Adding to its problems, the Caisse reported a 5 percent drop in the value of its investments last year, its second-worst annual performance.
Earlier this month, Mr. Scraire proposed several measures that would put more distance between the agency and its political masters. In a document titled "Modernizing to Ensure a Stronger Future," he suggested that the jobs of chairman and chief executive should be split, with the latter being appointed by the Caisse's board, not the government. (In its news release, the Caisse board said that if the posts of chairman and chief executive were split, Mr. Rousseau would continue as president and chief executive.)
Mr. Scraire also proposed that the board have a majority of independent members. To give the reforms a jump start, Mr. Scraire, 55, gave notice that he planned to quit, even though his term of office still had three years to run.
Mr. Rousseau, an economist by training, has strongly backed the independence movement. He directed research in the early 1990's for a government commission that concluded that an independent Quebec would be economically viable.
He said this week that, while he favored some of the changes proposed by his predecessor, the Caisse's dual mandate had served it well. On the other hand, Mr. Rousseau, 53, said he had a clear mandate to modernize the agency, and pledged to be apolitical in his new job.
What that means for the Caisse is not yet clear. In any case, it is unlikely to be the last word on the matter. In announcing Mr. Rousseau's appointment, Pauline Marois, the province's finance minister, said that she favored a public debate on the Caisse this fall. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); VENTURE CAPITAL (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); BONDS (72%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (71%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); TRENDS (69%); CITIES (67%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (57%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; STOCKS AND BONDS; INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS 

COMPANY: CAISSE DE DEPOT & PLACEMENT DU QUEBEC (91%); LAURENTIAN BANK OF CANADA (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CAISSE DE DEPOT ET PLACEMENT DU QUEBEC 

TICKER: LB (TSX) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%)

PERSON: SIMON, BERNARD; ROUSSEAU, HENRI-PAUL; SCRAIRE, JEAN-CLAUDE 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (93%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) QUEBEC, CANADA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CANADA (99%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) CANADA; QUEBEC PROVINCE (CANADA); TORONTO (ONTARIO)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2002 



747 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: Who Wants to Buy Stock? Not the Insiders 

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
BY and large, most Americans appear to be bullish on the economy and at least neutral on the stock market. Mutual fund sales are going well, and housing and consumer spending statistics show an economic recovery that is on track.
 But there is one interesting group that has turned more bearish than at any time in years: corporate insiders. 
 "There has been huge, huge insider selling," said Phil Roth, the veteran technical analyst at Miller Tabak, referring to legal sales by corporate officers and directors, not to illegal trading on inside information. He noted that over the last eight weeks, there had been 4.2 insider sales for every insider purchase reported. There are usually more open-market sellers than buyers, since insiders get a lot of their stock by exercising options, but this ratio is higher than it ever was in the 1990's bull market. 
That is a sharp turnaround from last fall, when insiders suddenly stopped selling when the market reopened after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. That may have reflected patriotism, or at least a concern that insiders who sold stock would look bad when their transactions were made public. Or maybe they just thought prices were unreasonably cheap. If so, that opinion has changed.
Whatever their motivation in October, insiders who bought stock generally did well as the market made a dynamic charge in the fourth quarter. Now some of the same insiders are selling the shares they bought then. Others who did not buy are selling, too.
Just what is causing the selling is worthy of speculation. On the benign side is the suggestion that a lot of insiders have learned from Enron's 401(k) debacle how unwise it is to concentrate one's wealth in any stock, particularly that of one's employer. The selling would therefore simply reflect a desire to diversify.
Robert Barbera, the chief economist of Hoenig & Company, offers a more cynical Enron lesson, this one based on the rapid rise in the number of accounting investigations being started by the Securities and Exchange Commission. "If you believe people cooked the books, then right now the cooks should be selling," he said. In fact, he added, executives who acted properly may also be concerned. "We are now at a point where accepted accounting principles of the late 1990's that were used in a great many companies can be seen as aggressive," he said. "If you are an insider who knows you were as aggressive as the next guy, you've got some anxiety."
Or maybe a lot of insiders simply think their stocks are expensive. Reported profits rose more in the 1990's than did real earnings, thanks to that aggressive accounting. But over the next couple of years, as auditors enforce more conservatism, reported profits may not do as well as real earnings. Will investors be willing to pay higher price-earnings ratios to reflect that higher quality? Or will they be scared that there are more problems yet to be uncovered?
David Coleman, the editor of the newsletter Vickers Weekly Insider Report, which compiles the insider statistics, points to one exception to the trend. Form 144 filings, which must be made by insiders selling shares they owned before the company went public, are flat. Evidently, shares of initial public offerings of recent years have fallen so far that few insiders want out. He suggests that could mean some of these companies are getting to be cheap.
Insiders do not know everything, of course. As a group, they failed to anticipate the bursting of the bubble in early 2000. But they rightly turned negative before last summer's market swoon, which began months before Sept. 11. That selling came as companies felt the economy weakening around them. This wave may reflect fears that the recovery will not live up to expectations.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks ratio of insider sales to purchases, eight-week moving average from 2001 through 2002. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ACCOUNTING (85%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); STATISTICS (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); ETHICS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); BONDS (70%); TERRORISM (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%); US 401K PLANS (63%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (63%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (61%); CONSERVATISM (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (52%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; BANKRUPTCIES; ETHICS; COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: HOENIG & CO LTD (64%); HOENIG & CO INC (64%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%) ENRON CORP; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2002 



748 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: String of Diplomats Begin Arriving for New Mideast Effort 

BYLINE:  By JOHN KIFNER

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, May 30 

 BODY:
A covey of diplomats began arriving here today in renewed efforts to find a way out of the deadly impasse between Israel and the Palestinians, as the Israeli Army continued what have by now become nearly daily raids into Palestinian territory. 
 The first to arrive was William J. Burns, the American assistant secretary of state for Near Eastern affairs, who flew in today from Cairo and met with the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, in Ramallah. On Friday he is to see the Israeli foreign minister, Shimon Peres, and the prime minister, Ariel Sharon. 
 Mr. Sharon, riding huge poll numbers, won another victory today when the scrupulously religious Shas Party said it would rejoin his government and vote for a belt-tightening economic package. Last week, Mr. Sharon dismissed Shas ministers when the party opposed the package, though the 17 seats the party holds in the fragmented Parliament are crucial to holding a majority. 
The Palestinian Authority, meanwhile, formally announced today that Yasir Arafat had finally signed the Basic Law, a kind of constitution, that had been voted by the Palestinian legislature and had sat, unapproved, on his desk for the last five years. The step was interpreted as a nod to the pressure for reform.
Even as the Sharon government continued to tighten security measures, the authorities, in an announcement certain to unsettle Israelis, said tonight that they had arrested a Palestinian man and his Jewish Israeli wife as prime suspects in helping organize the May 22 suicide bombing in Rishon le Zion. 
They were identified as as Ibrahim Sarahana, 33, from the Bethlehem area, and Marina Pinski, 26, who immigrated here from Russia 11 years ago. They were said to have driven the 16-year-old suicide bomber to the mall, which Mr. Sarahana choose as a target.
"Such complicity on the part of Israeli Jews is almost unheard of," Reuters quoted the Israeli police spokesman as saying. 
Before dawn, Israel sent tanks and dozens of armored personnel carriers and jeeps into the West Bank city of Hebron, where they arrested four Palestinians. They included an Islamic Jihad leader, Muhammad Sider, who Palestinian officials said had been the target of two Israeli assassination attempts. 
The army pulled out of Hebron by midday, and it left Bethlehem tonight, after four days of undertaking house-to-house searches and maintaining sniper positions around Manger Square.
At the same time, the army said it had detained six Palestinians in a village near Tulkarm, and had gone back into Jenin and imposed a curfew on the city. At least one explosion was heard there. There was also skirmishing in Gaza, with 11 Palestinians reported wounded. 
 Early Friday, dozens of Israeli armored personnel carriers and several tanks thrust into the Balata refugee camp on the outskirts of Nablus, where they met heavy Palestinian fire, Reuters reported Palestinian witnesses as saying. 
"Humanitarian problems, the daily humiliation that ordinary Palestinians suffer under occupation are getting worse every day," Mr. Burns told reporters during a stopover in Cairo, where he met with President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt before arriving in Israel.
One aspect of what Palestinians see as that humiliation -- roadblocks -- has become increasingly evident. All week there have been long lines at the two checkpoints leading from Ramallah to Jerusalem, and new roadblocks have been set up in the northern districts of the city.
Also, An Israeli human rights group charged today that Israeli soldiers had killed a 17-year-old Palestinian in their custody in Ramallah during the army's raid earlier this spring, and demanded an official investigation. The right's group, B'Tselem, said that the Palestinian, Murad Awaisa, was taken away from other detainees on March 31 and was later found with one bullet near his heart and another in his knee.
Mr. Burns is to be joined here on Monday by the director of central intelligence, George J. Tenet, who is tasked with reforming the Palestinian Authority and its hydra-headed security forces. 
Other diplomatic visitors include Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer of Germany and, in the coming days, the European Union's foreign policy chief, Javier Solana, and Osama al-Baz, the Egyptian presidential adviser, who is to arrive here ahead of a visit to Washington by Mr. Mubarak.
Mr. Arafat apparently signed the Basic Law Tuesday night, officials said, but it was not formally announced until today. His spokesman, Nabil Abu Rdeneh, said the law was part of the reforms that Mr. Arafat had promised in a speech to the legislative council two weeks ago. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); ARMIES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); TERRORISM (86%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (77%); ASSASSINATION (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); RELIGION (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); IMMIGRATION (70%); REFUGEES (70%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (69%); POLICE FORCES (68%); CURFEW (65%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: SHIMON PERES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (88%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (88%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2002 



749 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1720 words

HEADLINE: Just How Far Can Trading Of Emissions Be Extended? 

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN 

 BODY:
For once, Washington secured a bargain.
 The 1990 amendments to the Clean Air Act set up a market-based system in hopes of reducing pollution from power plants more efficiently than regulation alone would, but no one thought the cuts would come cheap. The government estimated that eliminating emission of 10 million tons of sulfur dioxide -- which causes acid rain -- would cost companies up to $15 billion a year. Yet left to their own devices, the generators cut emissions for a fraction of that amount. 
 "The Congress and Environmental Protection Agency estimated that the acid rain program back in 1990 would be 5 to 10 times more expensive than it has been," said S. William Becker, executive director of an organization of state and local air pollution officials, who called the program one of the most effective pieces of environmental legislation ever put in place. 
Now the White House wants to expand that approach, replacing existing air quality controls and applying "emissions trading" to other pollutants.
But environmentalists and economists alike warn that the Bush administration's "Clear Skies" initiative, while generally promising improvements, threatens to intensify pollution in certain "hot spots," and could create poor incentives for businesses.
"If all you had was emissions trading, you could pile up all the pollution in one place," said David D. Doniger, a former E.P.A. official who now sets policy at the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental advocacy group.
In the 1990's, sulfur dioxide levels fell broadly but they barely changed in the swath from Columbus, Ohio, to northern West Virginia; companies simply paid to pass on their obligations to reduce pollution in some of the worst spots. Mr. Doniger warned that abandoning existing safeguards would not only encourage concentrations of other pollutants it could even allow some plants to increase harmful emissions.
Environmentalists also lament Mr. Bush's failure to focus on greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide. Even those in the emissions trading business argue that carbon dioxide controls could help companies plan better, but Mr. Bush says they would raise electricity prices. Perhaps most important, no one seems to agree on how to dole out the right to pollute.
Emissions trading was just becoming popular in the late 1980's, when Congress set out to cut air pollution by power generators. Instead of ordering across-the-board reductions, though, lawmakers heeded economists who had long urged a focus on companies that could reduce emissions most cheaply. But the government had no easy way to identify those companies.
So Congress set up a trading system in which power companies can buy and sell "allowances" to emit sulfur dioxide. Each year, the number of allowances drops, with the goal of halving emissions by 2012.
At first, the companies worked with the government to divvy up 30 years' worth of allowances, to be traded on spot and futures markets. Russ Gillespie, managing director for environmental compliance at Duke Energy North America in Charlotte, N.C., knew he had a choice: keep Duke's allowances and keep polluting, or install expensive "scrubbers" to clean exhaust from plants. 
Mr. Gillespie knew cutting pollution would be expensive -- especially for Duke, because its exhaust was relatively clean already. Duke buys coal with about a pound of sulfur in each ton, but many Midwestern plants use coal with three times that amount. At one plant in Indiana, he added, the scrubbers would cost just as much, "but they would remove 90 percent of a much higher number" of sulfur dioxide particles.
As a result, it made sense for Duke to leave big pollution reductions to other generators. Mr. Gillespie said it might cost Duke $300 to collect a ton of sulfur, but it might cost other generators only $100. "They would be willing to meet in the middle," he said, by selling Duke an allowance for one ton at $200. "They would make $100, and Duke would save $100."
For monitoring, the E.P.A. required power generators to put electronic monitors on smokestacks. Companies that pollute too much pay $2,000, plus inflation, for each extra ton. The results have been better than even the program's original backers had predicted. Congress initially withheld 25,000 allowances a year to be sold for $1,500 each, plus inflation. Allowances now trade for $150 to $200.
"The United States sulfur dioxide system is a shining example of what worked," said Andrew O. Ertel, president of Evolution Markets, which completed more environment-related transactions than any other brokerage firm last year. "The reason it's worked is that the regulators put together a good system -- a basic and simple system."
Mr. Becker, of the local officials' group, also heaped praise on the program. "It has been implemented with almost 100 percent compliance," he said. "It has achieved generally what Congress sought."
So why not extend the sulfur dioxide market to nitrogen-oxygen compounds and mercury? Most policy makers are in favor of expanding emissions trading, but some worry that Clear Skies relies on it too much. The program would eliminate some safeguards against local hot spots and could increase pollution at certain plants. A poor area could be especially vulnerable to finding itself on what Mr. Becker calls "the receiving end" of emissions trades.
A few sulfur dioxide hot spots have persisted east of Erie, Pa.; west of Kingston, N.Y. in Catskill Park; and around Oswego, N.Y., and Oak Ridge, Tenn., according to the National Atmospheric Deposition Program. Since 1995, a study by the United States Public Interest Research Group reported, 300 of the 500 dirtiest plants actually increased sulfur dioxide emissions. An administration official pointed out that many other hot spots had been "cooled" by the 1990 program, but admitted that there had been exceptions.
The 1990 amendments prohibit generators from using allowances bought from other businesses if air quality in their local area would fall substantially. In addition, "new source review" clauses prevent plants from adding generating capacity without controlling overall pollution. This combination helped to prevent even more hot spots, Mr. Doniger said.
That could change. "Emissions trading with the safeguards in the acid rain control program still brought down the cost of meeting the sulfur dioxide targets," Mr. Doniger said. "What the Clear Skies proposal tries to do is to wipe away all of those provisions and replace them with a cap-and-trade system that would be the sole mechanism out there for meeting national targets." 
The administration, Mr. Doniger added, has already relaxed enforcement of new source reviews. But the administration official argued that such reviews were more trouble than they were worth.
"New source review has this perverse incentive for the dirtiest, oldest plants -- the ones from the 1940's and 50's -- to change nothing, to not modernize in any way," he said. "If they modernize, then they trigger a new source review that creates millions and millions of dollars in new investments. The whole reason why we want cap and trade is we want those plants to clean up."
An alternative proposal offered by Senator James M. Jeffords, a Vermont independent, would keep protections against hot spots in addition to capping carbon dioxide emissions and speeding up the elimination of other pollutants. 
Mr. Becker's group is also trying to persuade power plants to uphold minimum local standards of air quality. It is no easy task. "The industry looks at the program on a macro scale," Mr. Becker said. "They say, 'Things are going to get better, so why do we have to look at local impacts?' "
Senator Jefford's demand for carbon dioxide caps has some industry supporters but it has also raised hackles. Companies that run newer, cleaner generators want to know what investments will be necessary for the long term. "If you're paying top dollar for a power plant," Mr. Ertel said, "you're going to want to make sure that it's going to have the best available technology to run for the next 20 years."
But dirtier coal-fired plants want to avoid carbon dioxide controls as long as possible. "The only way to get cheap carbon dioxide reductions is a fuel switch away from coal towards natural gas," said Dallas Burtraw, a senior fellow at Resources for the Future, a nonpartisan environmental economics institute. "If Clear Skies passes in its current form, the industry would seemingly be justified in crying bloody murder if it was followed by new carbon controls."
Any new market-based plan will also have to deal with the issue of allocating new allowances. Because many utilities' profit margins were regulated in 1990, the distribution was a less contentious issue when Congress set up the acid rain program. Today, Mr. Burtraw said, "there is a potentially tremendous transfer of wealth in the initial distribution of emission allowances," running into billions of dollars.
At least three possible methods have surfaced in Washington. One, grandfathering, would give the most allowances to producers that have already spent the most to cut pollution -- favoring what were once the dirtiest plants.
A second would allot allowances every year or two, giving more to bigger power generators but fewer to bigger polluters, thus rewarding the cleanest plants. Mr. Burtraw said this strategy could distort the power market, but Mr. Doniger said it would lower prices for consumers.
The third, an auction, is also controversial. In the acid rain program, the E.P.A. withholds 3.8 percent of allowances for an annual auction. Businesses initially liked the auction. "There was uncertainty about what these things would cost, and the auction really helped firms to settle on their investment plans," Mr. Burtraw said. But now, some see it as an annoyance.
"E.P.A. takes weeks to actually execute this auction," Mr. Ertel said. "It should be able to do this auction in an hour." Still, economists prefer the auction because it always sells the allowances to the companies that value them the most.
Mr. Doniger suggested a fourth alternative: give customers the allowances, and make companies buy from them.
"It's the public's air that's being used as a waste dump," he said. "There's a good argument that you ought to pay to use the dump."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Despite Progress, Pollution Hot Spots Remain"Though the emissions trading system set up by the 1990 amendments to the Clean Air Act has achieved impressive reductions in sulfur dioxide emissions -- which end up as sulfate ions in acid rain -- some hot spots remain across the eastern United States. *Nearly all of the West had less than 0.9 tons per square mile in 1994 and 2000, but none of the areas shown here are in that category. Map of eastern third of The United States compares sulfate ion deposition, measured in tons per square mile, for 1994 and 2000.(Source: National Atmospheric Deposition Program/National Trends Network) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (92%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (92%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); ACID RAIN (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); AIR POLLUTION (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PRICE INCREASES (62%) AIR POLLUTION; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; SULFUR DIOXIDE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ACID RAIN 

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (82%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%) NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL 

INDUSTRY:  SIC4925 GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION; 

PERSON: ALTMAN, DANIEL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); DONIGER, DAVID D 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (92%) OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) UNITED STATES; COLUMBUS (OHIO); WEST VIRGINIA

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2002 



750 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: The Odds Improve for an Increase in the Minimum Wage 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
Last year and the year before, the New York State Assembly voted to increase the state minimum wage by $1.60 an hour, but those efforts died quietly in the Senate.
 But this year, many lawmakers say, the chances of an increase in the minimum wage have improved because the State Assembly has again approved it and for the first time the Labor Committee in the Republican-controlled State Senate has done likewise. 
 The bill would raise the state's minimum wage to $6.75 an hour on Jan. 1, $1.60 more than the current $5.15-an-hour state and federal minimum wage and comparable to the $6.70 an hour in Connecticut and $6.75 in Massachusetts.
"It's time New York caught up with the other states," said Guy J. Velella, a Bronx Republican who is chairman of the Senate Labor Committee. "This is one of the bills that is getting a lot of attention right now." 
The bill has certainly gotten the attention of business groups, like the New York Farm Bureau and the Business Council of New York State, which are lobbying senators this week to vote against the bill.
But the bill also has many supporters who are lobbying hard, including the New York State A.F.L.-C.I.O., the Working Families Party and 1199/S.E.I.U., the giant health care union.
Nicholas A. Spano, a Westchester Republican and the bill's main sponsor in the Senate, said he hoped to persuade Senate Majority Leader Joseph L. Bruno to have the full Senate vote on the legislation over the next few weeks. 
"In past years we had hoped the federal government would move forward on its own on the minimum wage," Mr. Spano said. "It's clear that that will not happen, and we need to show leadership in New York State."
Several lawmakers and lobbyists said they thought that the Republican Senate would be more willing to vote on the bill in this election year than in past years because some Republicans in swing areas like Nassau County are eager to shore up their support with labor.
Gov. George E. Pataki has been noncommittal on the bill. Some lobbyists predict he will sign it, if the Senate approves it, to take away an issue from his Democratic challengers, H. Carl McCall and Andrew M. Cuomo.
But several opponents of the bill said that the governor wanted to prevent a Senate vote because he feared that a higher minimum wage would hurt the state's economy.
Mark Alesse, New York State director of the National Federation of Independent Business, which represents 26,000 small businesses, predicted that a raise in the minimum wage would increase unemployment for low-wage workers.
"You increase the cost of hiring a person who has rudimentary skills and little experience, and you make that person harder to hire," he said.
Joseph Conway, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki, said, "We're supportive of an increase, but we believe it should be done at the federal level in order to ensure a level playing field and to prevent New York from being placed at a competitive disadvantage with other states."
But Mr. Conway declined to say whether Mr. Pataki would sign or veto a higher minimum wage sent him by the legislature.
The Fiscal Policy Institute, a liberal research group, estimated that 612,000 workers in New York earn less than $6.75 an hour and would have their wages raised by the bill.
Mr. Velella said he would not be surprised if the Senate ultimately approved a minimum wage lower than $6.75, a move that would require negotiating with the Assembly in a conference committee.
Hoping to avoid a conference committee and ease the bill's passage, Catherine Nolan, a Queens Democrat and the Assembly's chief sponsor of the bill, amended the Assembly bill yesterday so that it parallels the Senate version, which says that beginning in 2004 the state minimum wage would be pegged each year to the rise in average weekly earnings. The Assembly bill had called for pegging the increase to the consumer price index.
Ms. Nolan said one factor helping the bill was that several moderate Republicans in the Senate appeared to be angling for endorsements from the Working Families Party, a distinctly liberal party that has made a higher minimum wage its No. 1 issue in Albany.
Bob Master, co-chairman of the Working Families Party, said: "A political party has a lot of clout in an election year, and we're obviously looking to use that clout to advance the agenda of the party. The gap between the rich and poor has been one of the driving concerns of our party."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: Working Wage"New York's minimum wage remains much lower than in other states. New YorkMinimum wage (AS OF JAN. '02): $5.15 AlaskaMinimum wage (AS OF JAN. '02): 5.65 HawaiiMinimum wage (AS OF JAN. '02): 5.75 MaineMinimum wage (AS OF JAN. '02): 5.75 DelawareMinimum wage (AS OF JAN. '02): 6.15 District of ColumbiaMinimum wage (AS OF JAN. '02): 6.15 Rhode IslandMinimum wage (AS OF JAN. '02): 6.15 VermontMinimum wage (AS OF JAN. '02): 6.25 OregonMinimum wage (AS OF JAN. '02): 6.50 ConnecticutMinimum wage (AS OF JAN. '02): 6.70 CaliforniaMinimum wage (AS OF JAN. '02): 6.75 MassachusettsMinimum wage (AS OF JAN. '02): 6.75 WashingtonMinimum wage (AS OF JAN. '02): 6.90(Source: Dept. of Labor)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (93%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); APPROVALS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (67%); FAMILY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) LABOR; LAW AND LEGISLATION; MINIMUM WAGE 

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS COUNCIL OF NEW YORK STATE (55%); NEW YORK FARM BUREAU (55%); AFL-CIO (55%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (58%) GREENHOUSE, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2002 



751 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: New U.S. Allies, the Uzbeks: Mired in the Past 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: TASHKENT, Uzbekistan 

 BODY:
Two years ago, Poul Jahn employed 140 people as an importer of products like candy from Germany and Legos from Denmark. 
 Today, he is all but out of business, because the government stopped allowing him to convert his sales revenue from Uzbek som into dollars. 
 His difficulties are just one example of how hard it is to foster economic or other development in Uzbekistan and other Central Asian states that have become the newest United States allies because of their proximity to Afghanistan and the usefulness of their bases to American troops.
Under President Islam Karimov, a Soviet-era ruler here who has just extended his term until 2007, Uzbekistan has displayed little appetite for either democracy or open markets. Political repression is intense, corruption is widespread and economic policy owes more to Stalin than George W. Bush. 
American leaders are eager to pump economic and military aid into Central Asian states, but the sort of bureaucratic thicket and isolationism encountered by Mr. Jahn makes it difficult to see how the World Bank will dispense the $1 billion earmarked for the region over the next three years.
Yet without economic reform to improve the prospects for people here, the attraction of radical Islamic movements to the poor and disaffected may continue to grow. Mr. Karimov has used the existence of such movements as the pretext for an often brutal clampdown on any expression of Islam, jailing thousands of people in sweeps across the country that have been repeatedly criticized by rights groups.
Every economy in Central Asia is smaller today than it was before the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1990. Poverty is intense, with average annual income of about $610 here and less than half that in neighboring Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan.
Although leaders like President Karimov have vowed to support economic and administrative reform, the progress is at best uneven.
"Leaders are finding that they are getting a very different reception now than they got on Sept. 10," said James D. Wolfensohn, president of the World Bank, who himself made his first trip to the region only after the Sept. 11 terror attacks transformed the geopolitical realities of formerly forgotten Central Asia.
But, Mr. Wolfensohn added, "If they are going to take advantage of this opportunity for funds and support, then change will be necessary."
Uzbekistan illustrates how hard that change will be. Despite heavy pressure from the International Monetary Fund, it has yet to abandon its currency restrictions. Policy often seems to be set mainly to buttress Mr. Karimov's hold on power.
Meanwhile, a crazy quilt of new borders has disrupted trade and routine travel throughout the region.
Many people are trapped in enclaves, a few square miles of Uzbek or Tajik territory surrounded by Kyrgyzstan. Traders who once roamed freely across borders now need to wait in long lines, show visas and often pay bribes. 
"People are trapped," said Natalia Ablova, director of the Bureau on Human Rights and Rule of Law, in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan. "They cannot travel, cannot trade, cannot create business. Just travel through the region, and you will see the intolerable conditions that each country has created for its own citizens." 
Uzbekistan is hardly alone. Turkmenistan, which has big oil and gas reserves, has become so autocratic and isolated that World Bank officials have all but stopped offering aid.
Tajikistan, ravaged by civil war through much of the 1990's, remains plagued by organized crime, heroin smuggling and violence. Few foreign companies venture to do business there, and the average yearly income is only about $200.
The new isolationism has greatly increased tensions throughout Central Asia. Uzbekistan is critically short of water, and constantly accuses Kyrgyzstan of hoarding it upstream. Kyrgyzstan says it needs to store water for hydroelectric power, because its neighbors will not supply it with enough electricity. 
"You have this shadow play going on between leaders, whether it is about problems in the Aral Sea or about trade," Mr. Wolfensohn said. 
The difficulties become abundantly clear on a trip through the Fergana Valley, a region that is just 200 miles long but is home to 10 million people and a big share of Central Asia's industry and agriculture. 
A one-hour trip between the Kyrgyz cities of Osh, an ancient trading post, and Jalalabad now takes four hours -- the main road cuts through Uzbek territory, and side roads are winding and small. 
The enclave of Sokh, claimed by Uzbekistan but surrounded by Kyrgyz territory, is virtually fenced off from the outside world. Uzbek leaders argue that strong borders are essential to preventing attacks by militant Islamic groups, notably the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan, which has roots in the Fergana Valley and launched several attacks from Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan in 1999 and 2000. 
Economics is also partly a factor in the Uzbek behavior -- to keep prices for basic commodities like flour, cotton and gasoline artificially low, the government has imposed a mind-numbingly complex scheme of currency and trade controls.
At a checkpoint near the Uzbek city of Kuvasai, border police put the finishing touches last month on a massive new station that looks like the entrance to a palace.
The new station has multiple rooms for interrogation and searches; animal pens for the guard dogs; the latest in X-ray and bomb-sniffing equipment, and a canteen and recreation room for off-duty guards. Police officials boast that the "Welcome to Uzbekistan" sign can be seen from Kyrgyz mountainsides 50 miles away.
"You can see that there is nothing like this in Kyrgyzstan or even Kazakhstan," boasted the station's director, Col. Alisher Amanbaev. "This has everything you need for a really civilized process." 
But not necessarily an easy one. There are no buses or trains that go straight across the border. Anyone driving a car from Kyrgyzstan will have to pay $45 for insurance, prohibitive for people in a country where the average annual income is $270. 
"It would be good if we could just drive across," said Micha, a Kyrgyz hairstylist who waited along the railroad for a ride to Kuvasai. "Before, we would just go up to the border, stop and then drive through." 
Economic life has been disrupted in scores of places. At a brick factory in Kuvasai, managers were told they would have to pay steep new tariffs on clay from a quarry just over the border in Kyrgyzstan. Factory managers located another source on their side of the border, but the land belonged to a collective farm. Local Uzbek authorities then ordered the farm collective to hand over the quarry land on a 50-year lease at no cost.
Although factory managers say they are selling more bricks than before, they are not selling any at all in Kyrgyzstan. A rival Kyrgyz brick factory is not selling anything here, either. 
Uzbek attempts to control exchange rates have created an even bigger set of barriers. A handful of privileged companies, like the Daewoo automobile assembly plant, are allowed to purchase dollars at about 700 som to the dollar. Individuals are allowed to change limited amounts of money at 1,450 som to the dollar. The real exchange rate, available on the black market, is about 1,500 som to the dollar. 
The effect is to wreak havoc in trade, swamping neighboring countries with artificially cheap Uzbek products and making most exports to Uzbekistan artificially expensive. 
"We are a country with a majority of the population living below the poverty line," complained one top Kyrgyz official. "But trade with our Eurasian neighbors dropped 20 percent last year." 
Mr. Jahn, owner of an importing company called Jahn International, built a thriving business here through much of the 1990's. But then the Uzbek government cut in half the amount of Uzbek som he could convert to dollars. 
Then it reduced him to a quarter, and then it cut off his "allocation" entirely.
To stop him from changing money on the black market, Uzbek authorities limited bank withdrawals to little more than the amount needed for wages. To make sure Mr. Jahn did not cheat by selling products out the back door, they sent inspectors to check his warehouse inventories. 
"I don't want to do business illegally," Mr. Jahn said. "Right now, I am basically out of business." 
Under pressure from the International Monetary Fund, change may be under way. Last month, Uzbek authorities announced that citizens would no longer have to show them airline tickets and travel documents in order to exchange Uzbek som for dollars. It was a limited offer -- no more than $1,000 per person every three months. 
By Uzbek standards, it is a major reform.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A brick factory in Uzbekistan competes with a Kyrgyz rival.; At the Tezikovka market in Tashkent, Uzbekistan, people sell whatever they can to earn some money to supplement their meager incomes. (Photographs by Boris Buzin for The New York Times) Map of Uzbekistan highlighting Sokh: Sokh is claimed by Uzbekistan but surrounded by Kyrgyz territory.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); CURRENCIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); RELIGION (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); COMPANY REVENUES (72%); ARMED FORCES (70%); BRIBERY (69%); CORRUPTION (69%); QUILTS & QUILTING (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (61%); TERRORISM (61%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TASHKENT, UZBEKISTAN (73%) UZBEKISTAN (99%); ASIA (94%); KYRGYZSTAN (94%); CENTRAL ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); TAJIKISTAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2002 



752 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Another Call for an Overhaul of Air Fares 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG 

 BODY:
Airlines have to narrow the gap between walk-up fares and leisure fares that has widened in the last several years and has driven more business travelers to buy cheap tickets, the chief of US Airways said yesterday. 
 The fare gap has deepened the airline industry's crisis, the executive, David N. Siegel, said in an interview yesterday afternoon. "The gap is so large," he said, "we're trying to figure out a fare structure that's more rational and more consumer friendly," 
 The goal, he said, is to create fares between the last-minute tickets that cost thousands of dollars and the advance-purchase tickets that cost hundreds. He added that US Airways was looking at a couple of different fares that it might introduce. 
He did not go into details about them. Federal law prohibits airlines from publicly discussing such matters because of fears of collusion. But Mr. Siegel joins a growing chorus calling for an overhaul of the complex air fare system that most of the major carriers have adopted.
Business travelers have traditionally accounted for about 40 percent of revenue in the airline industry. But with the economic downturn, and with the increased perception of security delays at airports after Sept. 11, many business travelers have chosen to use alternative transportation or not to travel. 
A survey of 184 companies and large organizations, released by the Business Travel Coalition in April, showed that 74 percent of participants said their travel budget cuts were permanent.
The number of passengers taking the US Airways shuttle between New York and Washington dropped 30 percent between the first quarter of 2001 and the first quarter this year. Many business travelers in the Northeast have flocked to the high-speed Acela Express train. The Acela is much slower than flights, but is also much cheaper. Other travelers are buying tickets on low-cost carriers like Southwest or JetBlue.
"At a certain point, if you don't price your product not only fairly but what the customer perceives as fair, you will fail," said Joe Brancatelli, an advocate of lower fares for business travelers. "You can't sustain losses like this forever. And you can't sustain a system like this forever. The market has said no."
Mr. Siegel's comments about air fares came the same day that Continental Airlines raised most of its round-trip leisure fares by $20. It is the third time this year that a major carrier has tried to lead a leisure fare increase. On the previous occasions, Northwest Airlines refused to go along with the increases, forcing the other airlines to revert to lower prices. --------------------

Raise for Attendants
(By Bloomberg News)
 CHICAGO, May 30 -- Flight attendants at United Airlines, a subsidiary of UAL, will receive pay raises totaling $48 million, which will make their compensation better than the average of four rivals, the company said.
An arbitrator called for the pay increase after an annual review stipulated by the workers' contract, according to the airline and the attendants' union, the Association of Flight Attendants. The raise will be retroactive to April 1.
The increase comes as the airline is seeking to reduce its labor costs, the industry's biggest expense, through concessions from its worker groups. So far United's attendants have said they are not willing to provide concessions. The pilots are discussing pay reductions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (94%); AIR FARES (91%); TICKET SALES (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (79%); AIRPORTS (79%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (79%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (74%); BUDGETS (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); TRAINS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); BUDGET CUTS (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (94%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (59%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (51%); BLOOMBERG LP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIRWAYS 

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (94%); UAL (NYSE) (59%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (94%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (94%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (59%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (51%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: WONG, EDWARD; SIEGEL, DAVID N 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2002 



753 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 259 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Jobless Rate Unchanged 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Friday, May 31 

 BODY:
The unemployment rate in Japan remained unchanged at 5.2 percent in April, the eighth consecutive month the rate has hovered above 5 percent, as signs of a healing economy failed to trickle down to the labor market.
 About 3.75 million people were unemployed in April, up 270,000 from the previous month, the Labor Force Statistics Office said today. 
 Though the number of people with part-time jobs rose, the number of full-time jobs decreased. Other figures indicated that the number of people out of work for more than a year was also on the rise.
"The number of people with jobs has dropped since September of last year," said Masato Chino, the labor office director. 
Among those unemployed, 1.08 million were heads of households -- the highest level ever for salaried breadwinners. The previous high was last month, with 1.01 million.
Figures from January to March also indicated that it was taking longer to find jobs, especially for older job seekers, the government said.
The number of people without jobs for more than a year rose to a bit more than 30 percent of the total unemployed, compared with 26 percent for the same period last year. At the same time, older people who were rehired settled lower pay.
The Japanese government said in a report this month that the economy was starting to bottom out, although officials cautioned against too much optimism.
Industrial output and exports improved recently on the back of recovery in the rest of Asia and in the United States. Profits are edging up at companies, and inventories are being adjusted. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (93%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); OLDER WORKERS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); STATISTICS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) JAPAN (94%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2002 



754 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: Sheriff Battles Budget Cuts In Los Angeles 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: MONTEREY PARK, Calif., May 30 

 BODY:
The sheriff of Los Angeles County said today that he would start to cut critical programs and release hundreds of inmates if the County Board of Supervisors did not increase his budget by $100 million.
 At stake, Sheriff Leroy D. Baca said, is public safety in the 470-square-mile county that includes the largest county jail system in the nation, with more than 20,000 inmates. 
 "I do not raise this as a hollow threat but as a harsh reality," he said at a news conference. "Public safety needs to remain a priority, but you tell me how I can provide services with $120 million less than this department had in 1992." 
The sheriff's budget for the fiscal year that begins on July 1 is $1.6 billion, the largest part of which, $648 million, comes from the county, with the rest paid by state and local governments. The county's share represents an increase of $13 million over the current fiscal year but, according to Sheriff Baca, is not nearly enough to cover rising salary and worker compensation costs.
Sheriff Baca conceded that he hoped to whip up public concern over the consequences of the department budget, as proposed. He said that without more money, as many as 400 inmates could be released, starting July 1, and programs like the hate-crimes unit, gang units and the Asian crime task force would have to close.
Earlier this week, he said the release of inmates could start as early as Friday. But he delayed it, he said, in hopes that the public would press the board to give him what he seeks. 
That is not likely to happen. Yvonne Brathwaite Burke, a supervisor whose district includes a large part of Los Angeles, said every county agency was suffering as a result of the state's shortfall, projected to be $23.6 billion by the end of the 2003 fiscal year.
"There's a recession in California and a recession in Los Angeles," she said. "Every agency has to take responsibility for operating with a smaller budget."
In 1995, Sheriff Baca's predecessor, Sherman Block, also threatened to release inmates as part of a battle over budget cuts, but only a few inmates were released before some of the money he sought was restored. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); SHERIFFS (91%); COUNTIES (90%); PRISONS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); WORKERS COMPENSATION COSTS (68%); HATE CRIME (67%) PRISONS AND PRISONERS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: BACA, LEROY D (SHERIFF); JANOFSKY, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) LOS ANGELES (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2002 



755 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 908 words

PERSON: Patricia J. Lancaster 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
Bronco-Buster for an Errant Buildings Department

BYLINE:  By ROBIN FINN 

 BODY:
DON'T fall for that demure strand of pearls looped around the neck of Patricia J. Lancaster, the authoritative architect just sworn in as commissioner of the chronically derelict and defamed New York City Department of Buildings. She does not possess the pair of kid gloves to match the necklace. A pair of steel-toed work boots and a hard hat are more like it. 
 She does admit to knowing, after two decades spent tramping around construction sites and scaling half-built skyscrapers, how to avoid the headache of on-the-job hat hair: "You keep the ratchet loose," she explains, a little self-conscious that this hard hat tip, along with her reluctance to spill her age ("Just say late 40's; I like to fudge it") may make her come off as superficial. Not likely. 
 Prissy she isn't, or she would not have been recruited. The Buildings Department is responsible for setting the city's construction standards, already stringent, and now charged to be terrorist-proof as well as natural-disaster-proof; regulating the construction trades, 19; and taking the heat when anything goes awry, often. The abundance of $250 bribes passed to expedite the city's draconian permit process is, according to her, a sad fact of life.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said this moribund agency required an enforcer type: the operative word was "tough." Sure enough, within two weeks of her appointment, she dealt with a building explosion, a toppled crane, an indictment of three people in a bribe case, a collapsed scaffolding and 14 structural emergencies related to a spring northeaster. Her hard hat and two firefighter's jackets, one in her office and one in the car, took precedence over the pearls. 
There was also some required reading: the results -- it's safe to call them damning -- of an 18-month investigation ordered by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani into corruption allegations in the 791-member department.
"There are big issues out there," she says, "and it's all well documented. If I'm the building department, I'm corrupt, I'm inept, and I'm too slow. There is no question this is broken; the question is, could I succeed where others have failed." And now for the good news. "This agency is not a figurehead. The mayor wants it to change, and change it will, but it's a very heavy lift."
Is she tough enough to hoist it?
"Absolutely," says Ms. Lancaster, beaming in her overheated but spartan Hudson Street headquarters. She says two years as deputy commissioner for design and construction in the Giuliani administration honed her management strategy. Accountability is more than a buzzword with the first woman to head the Buildings Department. 
Long before she learned more about focus during her 1994-96 City Hall stint managing a staff of 600 and a construction budget of $600 million, she was, no joke, a horse tamer, which was all about focus. Taught by a cowpoke who was taught by an old Indian man, she grew up wrangling horses in the foothills outside her hometown, Calgary, Alberta, and appears to be taking the same tough-love attitude to the Buildings Department that she used to reform broncos into diligent merry-go-round mounts.
"I don't know if you can directly compare running this agency to riding a bucking bronco, but I've got to say it's a pretty heady ride," she says. She still slips out on Central Park's bridle paths twice a year. Otherwise, she is work-obsessed; the book she wrote, "Construction in Cities: Social, Environmental, Political and Economic Concerns," and the book on her desk, "Designing Dynamic Organizations," say it all. She also helped innovate the curriculum for a master's in construction management for the Real Estate Institute at New York University. She was six months into running her own management firm, the Lancaster Group, when Mayor Bloomberg called.
THE first thing she did after becoming commissioner of, arguably, the city's most black-eyed agency (the Buildings Department has competition from the Finance Department) was head for the office of the Manhattan district attorney, Robert M. Morgenthau. Her intention was to pick his brain on the proper care and handling of a corruption-racked monolith nobody else seemed ambitious enough to want to run, much less fix. He advised her to concentrate on "deterrence" and "transparency," so she compiled a list of dos and don'ts, held a series of Town Hall meetings to let the rank-and-file vent, and is pushing to make the permit process less opaque, even traceable on the Internet.
"Somebody told me you'd have to be a little nuts to take on this job," she says, "and I said, 'O.K., then I'm qualified.' " Ms. Lancaster discovered her planning inspectors couldn't even look up the building code the way the public can. Why? Because their computers aren't up to speed. She shakes her head. "So I add it to the list and say to myself, 'That's why you're here.' "
Ms. Lancaster left home at 18 for college in Oregon, where she worked as a potter and painter and waited to be discovered. When that didn't happen, she went to graduate school at the University of Washington, earned an architecture degree and moved to New York in 1982. She worked for architecture firms during the day and painted at night; one of her works hung in the lobby of the Chelsea Hotel, her home for the first four years she lived here. Now Ms. Lancaster lives on the Upper East Side; she returns to Calgary only to visit family.
"It's beautiful there," she says, "but it was too Zen."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Patricia J. Lancaster (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LIBEL & SLANDER (89%); BRIBERY (87%); CORRUPTION (87%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); INDICTMENTS (72%); TERRORISM (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%) 

ORGANIZATION: BUILDINGS DEPARTMENT (NYC) 

MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%); RUDY GIULIANI (57%) FINN, ROBIN; LANCASTER, PATRICIA J (COMR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Architecture 

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2002 



756 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: SOCCER; 
New Location, But Favorites Are Familiar

BYLINE:  By JERE LONGMAN 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, May 30 

 BODY:
Security is heavy, the ball is light, schools here are closed and pubs in England are open early as the world's largest sporting event comes to Asia for the first time.
 France will begin its World Cup defense against a former colony, Senegal, here on Friday as soccer's global championship opens its monthlong tournament with 32 teams divided equally between the host countries, South Korea and Japan. 
 Billions of people are expected to watch the World Cup on television, with 1.5 billion expected to view the final match, on June 30 in Yokohama, Japan. The location of the tournament is new, but the favorites are familiar: France and Argentina, which is hoping that soccer can distract a nation despairing over a financial collapse. So severe is the economic crisis in Argentina that only 30 reporters of an expected Argentine contingent of 400 are here to cover the championship. 
Brazil could capture its fifth World Cup if the three R's -- Rivaldo, Ronaldinho and the resuscitated Ronaldo -- can mesh in their attack to create the beautiful game. Italy is always a threat with its strangling defense, and Cameroon's Indomitable Lions are poised to advance farther than any African team that has come before. 
A number of teams, however, have been hit by injuries, and many of the top players are tired after long club seasons in Europe. France, trying to become the first team in 40 years to repeat as champion, will be without its hobbled midfielder, Zinedine Zidane, widely considered the best player in the world, for at least Friday's game, and perhaps all three matches in group play.
Fatigue, and the relatively short period that national teams have had to prepare, could lead to a number of early-round upsets, predicted the American coach, Bruce Arena. He does not believe, for instance, that both Argentina and England will emerge from a group that also includes Sweden and Nigeria.
The United States will be the last team to open play, next Wednesday against skillful, and elegant, Portugal. First-round matches will also be played against South Korea on June 10 and Poland on June 14. The Americans will most likely need a draw and a victory to finish at least second in their group and advance to the Round of 16. In any case, the team appears far more capable and cohesive than the distressed side that finished last at the 1998 World Cup in France.
"There is no fear within this team," the assistant coach Dave Sarachan said. "They feel they can make some history here."
The most intriguing question concerning the Americans -- who will start at goalkeeper? -- may have been answered today, when Kasey Keller missed practice with a sore left elbow. He sustained a bruise in a collision Wednesday with defender Carlos Llamosa. X-rays proved negative, team officials said. Michael Kammarman, a team spokesman, said that Keller was feeling significantly better and that "we don't expect it to be an issue."
However, Brad Friedel is in top form, having played brilliantly with Blackburn in the English Premier League and in subsequent World Cup tuneups. Arena had said he was considering playing both goalkeepers in the first round, and this latest injury might have made up his mind about who gets to start the opener. Playing Friedel would give Keller extra days to mend his sore elbow and would prevent Friedel from becoming frustrated with a lack of playing time, as he did during last summer's qualifying matches. Arena said he would make a decision Sunday, but would not announce it publicly.
All the goalkeepers in this tournament will have to contend with a lighter ball, manufactured by Adidas, that is designed to produce more speed and spectacular goals. It has already generated much criticism from those who will stand in the nets. The ball, made of gas-filled micro bladders and enhanced cushioning, is said to knuckle and create a difficult trajectory when kicked in the sweet spot.
"Terrible," Keller called it. A "ridiculous kiddies' bouncing ball," is how Italy's Gianluigi Buffon described it.
When the World Cup opens Friday, the South Korean military will be on high alert in an effort to thwart any terrorist attacks at an event that draws the entire world's attention. Antiaircraft missiles will be deployed at the 10 stadiums being used here, along with fighter jets and helicopters, military officials have said. No-flight zones will be enforced during the matches.
Security measures, however, are not expected to dampen the enthusiasm of the spectators, particularly the South Korean fans, who are hoping for advancement after the national team played impressively in recent friendlies against England and France. The most enthusiastic Korean fans are known as the Red Devils and they can be spotted throughout Seoul wearing T-shirts that say "Be the Reds" and "Korea Team Fighting." The South Korean team has never won a game in five previous World Cup appearances, and a victory in any match here is certain to set off jubilant celebrations.
In England, the pubs have been granted early-morning opening privileges so that the World Cup can be enjoyed with a stout pint or two. The British have been consumed for two months with the condition of the team captain, David Beckham, who is recovering from a broken bone in his left foot. He is now expected to play in the opener against Sweden. So engulfed was the country in his recovery, fans were asked to place their healing hands on a photograph of Beckham's foot that appeared on the cover of a tabloid newspaper.
"Thank God it wasn't a groin injury," mused Terry Venables, the former national team coach.
Just as the tournament is set to open, the rainy season has arrived in this smoggy capital. Asked how his American team was preparing to play in rainy conditions, the curmudgeonly Arena said, "We take a shower every day."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A boat with giant soccer balls sailing on the Hangang River in Seoul, South Korea, to celebrate the World Cup. (Associated Press)(pg. D1); A cafe in Tokyo, owned by Hidetoshi Nakata, a member of the Japanese soccer team, offers flat monitor screens to view the World Cup. (Associated Press)(pg. D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (92%); SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (91%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); SOCCER (90%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); ATHLETES (77%); CONTUSIONS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%) SOCCER; WORLD CUP (SOCCER) 

PERSON: RONALDINHO (56%) KEPNER, TYLER 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (72%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); FRANCE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ARGENTINA (93%); JAPAN (93%); ENGLAND (93%); SENEGAL (92%); BRAZIL (92%); ASIA (92%); CAMEROON (79%); EUROPE (79%); NIGERIA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%) FRANCE; ARGENTINA; ITALY; BRAZIL; SOUTH KOREA; JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2002 



757 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 86 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Britain: No Upturn For Aircraft Engines 

BYLINE:  By Alan Cowell (NYT) 

 BODY:
 RollsRoyce, the world's second-biggest manufacturer of aircraft engines, said there had been no change in earlier forecasts that profits from its civilian aerospace businesses would be halved in 2002. 
Airlines have canceled orders for airplanes and engines as air travel has declined after the Sept. 11 attacks. The company's chairman, Sir Ralph Robins, above, told shareholders that the downturn would not "materially affect the long-term value of the business." Its shares fell 2.4 percent. Alan Cowell (NYT)

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT ENGINES (92%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); HIJACKING (88%); TERRORISM (86%); FACTORY ORDERS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (86%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (84%); SHAREHOLDERS (83%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; TERRORISM; HIJACKING; JET ENGINES AND JET PROPULSION 

ORGANIZATION: ROLLS-ROYCE PLC 

PERSON: ROBINS, RALPH; COWELL, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%) NEW YORK, USA (86%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (86%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2002 



758 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 113 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Broadway Season Results 

BYLINE:  By Jayson Blair (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

 BODY:
 The Broadway season that recently ended, hurt by the tourism decline after Sept. 11, was not as bad as nearly everyone expected. The League of American Theatres and Producers, the trade association for the commercial theater industry, reported yesterday that 2001 attendance dropped 7.9 percent, while total revenues, helped by higher prices, fell only 3.4 percent. An accompanying study showed that Broadway's impact on the economy had risen each year until the record results of 2000, when the shows grossed $666 million on the sale of 11.5 million tickets. In the 2001-02 season, Broadway shows grossed $643.4 million and sold 10.95 million tickets. Jayson Blair (NYT)




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); THEATER (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (87%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2002 



759 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Rises and Nissan Falls in J.D. Power Quality Survey 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

DATELINE: DETROIT, May 30 

 BODY:
General Motors rose to third place in this year's quality ranking surveys by J. D. Power & Associates, the best performance for a domestic manufacturer since the study's methodology was changed in 1998. 
 The Ford Motor Company also rose in the closely watched initial quality survey, which examines how cars perform in their first 90 days, as did DaimlerChrysler, the parent of the Chrysler Group. Ford moved from seventh place to fifth in the survey. DaimlerChrysler moved from fifth to fourth. 
 Nissan Motor, meanwhile, tumbled from third to a tie for sixth place in the overall rankings, according to several people who received copies of the results. Nissan was the only one of the major automakers to show a decline in its overall initial quality score. J. D. Power releases data on the best-performing individual car and truck lines to the public, but the corporate-level data is kept private and sold to automakers. 
"No matter how you cut it, it's remarkable to have each of the Big Three with better quality than one of the major Japanese players," said John Casesa, an analyst at Merrill Lynch. 
Quality rankings have long favored Asian automakers and highly favorable exchange rates have given them more ammunition to make improvements recently. Mr. Casesa added that too much should not be read into a one-year blip in the rankings for Nissan, since the company had a prominent redesign in its Altima sedan in the last year, usually a source of trouble, and it is also "in the midst of a massive, high-speed restructuring."
But the company, which is led by a demanding French chief executive, Carlos Ghosn, was clearly not happy.
"We did slip," said Jed Connelly, a senior vice president for Nissan's North American operations. "We're disappointed."
While Toyota Motor and Honda Motor continue to dominate the rankings, the most striking data was G.M.'s quality improvement, which moved it from fourth place to third, and was evidence of a manufacturing overhaul years in the making.
Surprisingly, G.M., which makes its money in pickups and sport utility vehicles, had its best individual performances in passenger cars, belying the conventional wisdom that domestic automakers cannot compete in passenger car quality. G.M.'s Chevrolet Malibu was the most improved car over the last five years and its Buick Century and LeSabre also took best in their categories, as did the Chevrolet Corvette. 
"G.M. is learning about quality and how to improve its quality, and when it does, it applies those lessons to all the products they produce," said Brian Walters, director of product research at J. D. Power.
"It also suggests they are designing better products from the get-go," he added. "We found roughly three quarters of the problems we see in initial quality go back to the design and engineering stage."
Mr. Casesa said, "G.M.'s performance has a lot to do with what happened in the early '90's, when they implemented its version of the Toyota production system." 
The company, which operates a joint venture plant with Toyota in Fremont, Calif., has made no secret of adapting Toyota's efficient system. This included making sure its production lines run at more constant speeds, increasing the flexibility of plants to accommodate more types of vehicles and cutting down on mistakes that require fixing before vehicles are shipped to dealers. 
G.M. has also tried to use fewer parts, including cutting the number of different glove compartment latches from 16 in 1998 to 6 today, and aims to have just one by 2006. 
Because of such progress, G.M. was the only one of the Big Three to make a profit last year. 
Gary Cowger, the president of G.M.'s North American operations, said: "The improvement in quality basically drives the elimination of waste. You don't pay for repair, you don't pay for nonproductive overtime that doesn't build cars and trucks. These costs are in the millions."
This year, Toyota's dominance showed particularly in larger vehicles -- it came in first in five of seven light truck categories, including best compact minivan, compact and full-size pickup, and its Lexus division won a sixth category, luxury S.U.V.
The initial quality survey is only one measure of success, if a well publicized one promoted loudly in industry advertisements. The company sent out random questionnaires to people who had recently bought or leased cars, asking about various problems like wind noise, paint chips and scratches, noisy brakes, doors that are hard to open and poor lumbar support. They received responses from 65,000 people.
Another survey, conducted earlier in the year by Consumer Reports magazine, examines up to the first eight years of ownership, and the Big Three did not fare nearly as well. 
"I.Q.S. is geared more to auto manufacturers than the consumer," said David Champion, director of automobile testing at Consumer Reports, referring to the initial quality survey. 
"They get the initial quality right, but I don't think the cars are robust enough to last over time," he added. "The consumer is looking at one, two or three years of ownership."
David Healy, an analyst at Burnham Securities, said "some cars do well on the 90-day survey and fall apart after three years."
"From my point of view," he added, "how it lasts over seven years is more useful."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Quality Leaders"J.D. Power & Associates' ranking of automakers from its 2002 Initial Quality Study, based on responses by 65,000 people who bought or leased new cars and trucks. 2002 RANK: 1.AUTOMAKER: Toyota2001 RANK: 1 2002 RANK: 2.AUTOMAKER: Honda2001 RANK:2 2002 RANK: 3.AUTOMAKER: General Motors2001 RANK: 4 2002 RANK: 4.AUTOMAKER: DaimlerChrysler2001 RANK: 5 2002 RANK: 5.AUTOMAKER: Ford2001 RANK: 7 2002 RANK: 6. (tie)AUTOMAKER: Nissan2001 RANK: 3 2002 RANK: 6. (tie)AUTOMAKER: Volkswagen2001 RANK: 6 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); RANKINGS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); QUALITY CONTROL (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); SEDANS (79%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (51%) AUTOMOBILES; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (85%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (83%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (58%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; POWER, J D, & ASSOCIATES; FORD MOTOR CO; DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG; NISSAN MOTOR CO; VOLKSWAGEN AG; TOYOTA MOTOR CORP; HONDA MOTOR CO 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); 7201 (TSE) (92%); HNDA (LSE) (83%); HMC (NYSE) (83%); 7267 (TSE) (83%); GM (NYSE) (59%); TYT (LSE) (58%); TM (NYSE) (58%); 7203 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES; 

PERSON: CARLOS GHOSN (55%) HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2002 



760 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Deal for Miller Brewing May Be First in a Series
South African Breweries agreed to buy the Miller Brewing Company from Philip Morris for $3.6 billion in stock, moving a step closer to surpassing Anheuser-Busch as the world's largest brewer.
 Miller Brewing, ranked eighth by volume, has a small international presence and has been focused on turning around its United States business, which remains a distant second to Anheuser-Busch. South African Breweries ranks fifth. Page C2. 

G.M. Rises in Survey on Quality
General Motors rose to third place in this year's quality ranking surveys by J. D. Power and Associates, the best performance for a domestic manufacturer since the study's methodology was changed in 1998. Ford also rose in the survey, as did DaimlerChrysler. C4.

US Airways Examines Varied Fares
Airlines have to narrow the gap between walk-up fares and leisure fares that has widened in the last several years and driven more business travelers to buy cheap tickets, the chief of US Airways said. The fare gap has deepened the airline industry's crisis, David N. Siegel said. Mr. Siegel said that US Airways was "looking at a couple of different air fares" that it might introduce. C5.

Claim for Electricity Refunds Denied
Federal regulators examining whether companies overcharged for electricity during the California power crisis rejected an attempt by California officials to expand their claim for electricity refunds by up to $2.8 billion. C4.

Two Enron directors who joined the board in 1999, Frank Savage and John Mendelsohn, have resigned. C4.

Accountant Testifies on Shredding
A senior Arthur Andersen accountant testified that he first learned last fall about its policy requiring the destruction of certain records and was uncomfortable with the idea of destroying Enron-related memos. C4.

Shares Close Mostly Lower
Stocks closed mostly down as energy shares fell with oil prices. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 11.35 points, or 0.11 percent, to 9,911.69. The Nasdaq composite index rose 7.53 points, or 0.46 percent, to 1,631.92. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 3 points, or 0.28 percent, to 1,064.66. C7.

Number of Jobless Claims Declines
For a second week, fewer people filed new claims for unemployment insurance, but the level of claims still indicated that the job market remained sluggish. Claims dropped by a seasonally adjusted 12,000, to 410,000 -- the lowest level since the middle of March -- for the week that ended Saturday, the Labor Department said. C2.

Moody's Cuts Qwest Credit Rating
The credit rating of Qwest Communications International was cut to junk by Moody's Investors Service, which said the phone company had too much debt. C6.

The Navy and Marines Join Forces
For two centuries the United States Navy and the Marine Corps have worked as a joint fighting force, but despite their long history they have always advertised separately -- until now. Since February, the Pentagon has been promoting the Navy and Marine Corps together to imprint the "Power of Teamwork" on a more patriotic America. Advertising. C5.

Challenge to Boeing Is Dismissed
The Seoul District Court rejected a suit by the French manufacturer Dassault Aviation demanding disqualification of Boeing as the winner of a contract to build 40 fighter planes for South Korea. World Business, Section W.

Airport Indicates Korea's Ambitions
Rising up like a rolling cloud of glass, marble and steel, the main terminal of the new $5.6 billion Inchon International Airport will clearly convey South Korea's economic ambitions to the visitors expected for the World Cup soccer games. World Business, Section W.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the daily closing price of US Airways shares for the week. Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,911.69 down 11.35Nasdaq composite -- 1,631.92 up 7.5310-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.02% down 0.04The euro -- $0.9377 up 0.0012The dollar -- 123.05 yen down 1.29 Graph tracks the weekly jobless claims from April to May 25.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BREWERIES (91%); AIRLINES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AIR FARES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (85%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (85%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (73%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); BOARD CHANGES (69%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (62%); NAVIES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: MILLER BREWING CO (94%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (84%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (60%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (58%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (54%); CENTURYLINK INC (50%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (57%); CTL (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (94%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (94%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (50%) SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2002 



761 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Heart of Cheapness 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Poor Bono. He got stuck in a moment, and he couldn't get out of it.
 In one of the oddest enterprises in the history of development economics, Bono -- the lead singer for the rock band U2 -- has been touring Africa with Paul O'Neill, secretary of the treasury. For a while, the latent tensions between the two men were masked by Bono's courtesy; but on Monday he lost his cool. 
 The pair were visiting a village in Uganda, where a new well yielding clean water has radically improved the villagers' health. Mr. O'Neill's conclusion from this, as from the other development projects he saw, was that big improvements in people's lives don't require much money -- and therefore that no big increase in foreign aid is required. By the way, the United States currently spends 0.11 percent of G.D.P. on foreign aid; Canada and major European countries are about three times as generous. The Bush administration's proposed "Millennium Fund" will increase our aid share, but only to 0.13 percent.
Bono was furious, declaring that the projects demonstrated just the opposite, that the well was "an example of why we need big money for development. And it is absolutely not an example of why we don't. And if the secretary can't see that, we're going to have to get him a pair of glasses and a new set of ears."
Maybe the easiest way to refute Mr. O'Neill is to recall last year's proposal by the World Health Organization, which wants to provide poor countries with such basic items as antibiotics and insecticide-treated mosquito nets. If the U.S. had backed the proposed program, which the W.H.O. estimated would save eight million lives each year, America's contribution would have been about $10 billion annually -- a dime a day per American, but nonetheless a doubling of our current spending on foreign aid. Saving lives -- even African lives -- costs money.
But is Mr. O'Neill really blind and deaf to Africa's needs? Probably not. He is caught between a rock star and a hard place: he wants to show concern about global poverty, but Washington has other priorities.
A striking demonstration of those priorities is the contrast between the Bush administration's curt dismissal of the W.H.O. proposal and the bipartisan drive to make permanent the recent repeal of the estate tax. What's notable about that drive is that opponents of the estate tax didn't even try to make a trickle-down argument, to assert that reducing taxes on wealthy heirs is good for all of us. Instead, they made an emotional appeal -- they wanted us to feel the pain of those who pay the "death tax." And the sob stories worked; Congress brushed aside proposals to retain the tax, even proposals that would raise the exemption -- the share of any estate that is free from tax -- to $5 million.
Let's do the math here. An estate tax with an exemption of $5 million would affect only a handful of very wealthy families: in 1999 only 3,300 estates had a taxable value of more than $5 million. The average value of those estates was $16 million. If the excess over $5 million were taxed at pre-2001 rates, the average taxed family would be left with $10 million -- which doesn't sound like hardship to me -- and the government would collect $20 billion in revenue each year. But no; the whole tax must go. 
So here are our priorities. Faced with a proposal that would save the lives of eight million people every year, many of them children, we balk at the cost. But when asked to give up revenue equal to twice that cost, in order to allow each of 3,300 lucky families to collect its full $16 million inheritance rather than a mere $10 million, we don't hesitate. Leave no heir behind!
Which brings us back to the Bono-O'Neill tour. The rock star must have hoped that top American officials are ignorant rather than callous -- that they just don't realize what conditions are like in poor countries, and how foreign aid can make a difference. By showing Mr. O'Neill the realities of poverty and the benefits aid can bring, Bono hoped to find and kindle the spark of compassion that surely must lurk in the hearts of those who claim to be compassionate conservatives.
But he still hasn't found what he's looking for. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); ESTATE TAX (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (85%); POP & ROCK (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); MUSIC (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (72%); TAX LAW (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); INSECTICIDES (68%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); ANTIBIOTICS (50%) FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TAXATION; INHERITANCE AND ESTATE TAXES 

PERSON: BONO (91%); PAUL KRUGMAN (77%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC); BONO (MUSICIAN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); AFRICA (94%); UGANDA (79%); EUROPE (79%) AFRICA

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2002 



762 of 762 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: May 31, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: State Warns About Risks Jeopardizing City's Budget 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
With just a week to go before New York City's not-very-set-in-stone deadline for passing its budget, a state oversight board warned yesterday that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's current plan to balance the budget "appears to be in jeopardy."
 The New York State Financial Control Board, which took over the city's finances during the fiscal crisis of the 1970's and now monitors its budgets and financial plans, reported that it had identified $1.7 billion in risks in Mr. Bloomberg's plan to close the city's roughly $5 billion budget gap for the 2003 fiscal year, which begins on July 1. 
 The control board's report warned that the "2003 budget balance appears to be in jeopardy" and added that "additional action on the city's part is necessary." 
The warning came as negotiations between the mayor's office and the City Council entered a new phase. The Council is trying to avert some cuts, arguing that they would hurt the city's poorest people. The mayor warns that the city simply cannot afford to do everything it wants to. The Council has wanted to raise taxes; the mayor does not.
Aides on both sides said that it now appeared unlikely that the city would adopt a budget by June 5, the budget deadline mentioned in the City Charter. But the June 5 deadline -- which falls on Wednesday of next week -- is not exactly hard and fast. The city has adopted a budget by June 5 only a few times since the charter was adopted in 1989. 
And the city is still waiting to see what budget actions the State Legislature will approve: the city needs the state's permission to raise the cigarette tax and parking fines and to get more flexibility in how it refinances its debt. Several officials said that it would be difficult to agree on a budget without knowing what help the state would provide.
The more serious deadline, by custom, is June 30, the last day of the fiscal year. The city has only failed to make that deadline once, in 1991, another tough fiscal year, when the Council did not pass the budget until 7:30 a.m. on July 2. 
Then there was 1998, when the Council passed its own budget over the objections of the mayor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, and the mayor impounded the funds. Their civil war dragged on for months, until they buried their budget hatchets in November. 
This year the Council and the mayor are working to negotiate a budget. But both sides have some cards up their sleeves. The Council is still holding out the threat of passing its own budget if the mayor does not give it more of what its members are seeking. The mayor's office is threatening to withhold its letter spelling out the amount of money the city expects to collect in revenue next year -- a figure needed to pass a budget. 
But both sides hold out hope that they will agree on a budget, and adopt it. 
Of course, in New York City, the adoption of a budget is merely the first step in what has become an essentially yearlong budget process with periodic modifications. 
Last June the city adopted a $40.2 billion budget. By the time it was modified last month, the budget had grown to $41.8 billion. It was, though, an unusual year: the recession and the attack on the World Trade Center certainly threw things out of balance, as tax revenues dropped precipitously and expenditures cropped up unexpectedly. 
But many of the unexpected expenditures were unrelated to the attack. Union contracts cost the city more than it had expected, health insurance costs for city workers rose steeply, and police overtime costs were higher than budgeted for antidrug initiatives, crackdowns on quality of life crimes, and security for unplanned events.
The financial control board found that the city would end this budget year, which ends June 30, without a deficit, but only after having made several changes during the year and going through a nearly $3 billion surplus built up in recent years. 
The report said that the city could end the current fiscal year with a surplus of as little as $22 million -- which would be $300 million less than the city projected, and nearly $3 billion less than it ended last year with. The smaller the surplus at the end of this year, the more difficult it becomes to balance next year's budget. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); APPROVALS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PARKING OFFENSES (62%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE FINANCIAL CONTROL BOARD 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%) COOPER, MICHAEL; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2002 

 
