

601 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; THE WEEK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Design Teams Hired in Nassau Coliseum Project

BYLINE: By LINDA SASLOW

 BODY:
The Nassau Coliseum redevelopment plan advanced another step when the project's partners chose a master planning team of two architecture and planning firms, the Development Design Group of Baltimore and the Spector Group of North Hills.
 The two companies will design a $2 billion suburban center on 77 acres of county-owned property. It is scheduled to include an 18,000-seat arena for sporting events and concerts as well as housing, office space, retail stores, a hotel and a complete restoration and renovation of the Nassau Coliseum. The project's partners -- Lighthouse Development Group, a joint venture between Charles B. Wang, owner of the New York Islanders and founder of Computer Associates, and Scott H. Rechler, chairman of RexCorp Realty -- announced the hiring of the planning team on July 20.
 The Development Design Group is known for malls and mixed-use developments throughout the country. The Spector Group's projects include RexCorp Plaza in Uniondale, Jericho Plaza and the Islandia headquarters of Computer Associates. The company will provide local expertise for the project's planning and design, said Marc B. Spector, one of the company's principals. 
 Mr. Rechler, Long Island's largest developer of commercial real estate, said, ''We were looking for a team who would want to stick with the character of Long Island, but at the same time provide Long Island with what it doesn't have.''
 The Lighthouse Project is expected to create 16,000 construction jobs, as well as thousands of permanent jobs and many new businesses, and to generate almost $60 million of annual real estate tax revenue, Mr. Rechler said. 
 Nassau Advised to Limit 
 Growth of Health Care Costs
 An advisory committee has recommended ways to restrain the growth of Nassau County's health care bills for county workers, which Howard S. Weitzman, the county comptroller, said were costing taxpayers almost a quarter of a billion dollars each year.
 In the last five years, the county's health care costs for employees and retirees have increased by 60 percent, said the report by Mr. Weitzman's Audit Advisory Committee, which was issued July 19. 
 ''The cost for health care now amounts to 10 percent of the county's budget and an amazing 32 percent of what residents pay in property taxes,'' Mr. Weitzman said. 
 The advisory committee, composed of independent financial experts, was formed by Mr. Weitzman in 2003. Although the comptroller's office does not have the authority to change the county's health policy, Mr. Weitzman has submitted the report to the County Legislature and to County Executive Thomas R. Suozzi, along with its suggestions for limiting the growth of health care costs.
 One cost-saving recommendation that has already begun to be used is the elimination of duplication of benefits -- offering two separate family health benefit packages when both spouses or partners work for, or are retired from, the county. 
 The Legislature eliminated these duplicate benefits for nonunion employees in 2006, saving $276,000 in the first year. The recent agreement with the Nassau Police Benevolent Association also eliminated the practice, which will save more than $900,000 in 2008 when fully in effect. 
 If duplicate coverage is completely eliminated as new contracts are negotiated, Mr. Weitzman estimated, it will save $27 million over six years.
 Other recommendations made by the advisory committee involved participant contributions to the cost of health insurance; changes to the benefit plan; vesting changes that would increase the number of years required for new employees to be eligible for retiree health benefits; and wellness programs for county employees.
 Counties Buying Land
 To Preserve Open Space
 Nassau and Suffolk recently committed millions more dollars to preserve open space, agreeing to buy more than 160 acres of prime land.
 Nassau County closed on a deal on July 18 to buy 33.5 acres of the Northwood estate in Oyster Bay Cove for $11 million. The money came from a $50 million bond, approved by the Legislature in 2004. Tom Maher, the Nassau County director of environmental coordination, said that the Oyster Bay Cove land was chosen because it is adjacent to Tiffany Creek Preserve and expands that open space. 
 Several days earlier, the county closed on the 12-acre Boegner Farm in Westbury. The two sales completed the purchase of seven tracts of land that the county had designated for preservation in its last bond act. 
 Mr. Maher said that in a separate deal later this summer, the county would give the Village of Port Washington North $600,000 for several acres that the village will use in its Baywalk Park project. 
 In Suffolk earlier this month, County Executive Steve Levy authorized the purchase of the development rights to 118 acres of active farmland in the Town of Riverhead, which will prevent any development on the land and enable the farmers to continue to own and farm it without economic hardship. 
 Among the properties to be preserved is the 27-acre Farr Farm in the hamlet of Calverton, bought by the county for $2.43 million. The property includes about five acres of vineyards; the rest is used for organically grown pumpkins and mixed crops. It is the first 100 percent organic farm to be preserved by Suffolk County.
 Also on the list are the 70-acre Zilnicki Farm in Riverhead, which is a large producer of cabbage, and Reeve Farm in Riverhead, a 21-acre crop farm. The total $8.1 million cost for the development rights on both farms was split between Suffolk and the Town of Riverhead. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ready for Remake The Nassau Coliseum area in Uniondale that will become a $2 billion surburban center. (Photograph by Barton Silverman/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); COUNTIES (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (88%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); JOINT VENTURES (73%); SUBURBS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (68%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (56%); RETAILERS (56%)

COMPANY: CA INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: THE LIGHTHOUSE (83%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (56%)

TICKER: CA (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2007



602 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2007
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Buzz Cola and Sprinklicious Doughnuts: A Mecca for 'Simpsons' Fans

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
In Times Square, where barriers between alternate universes have been thought to shift, visitors to 345 West 42nd Street are reveling in the most recent rupture in space-time.
 In ''The Simpsons,'' the TV cartoon series whose movie opened on Friday, Kwik-E-Mart is a barely disguised 7-Eleven whose Indian owner changes the expiration dates on spoiled food, worships at a shrine for the elephant god Ganesha and is under constant siege by armed robbers.
 Far from shrinking from the image, 7-Eleven has embraced its inner Kwik-E-Mart. This month it transformed a dozen stores in the United States, including the one on 42nd Street across from the Port Authority bus terminal, into ''Simpsons'' advertisements. 
 Andy Chaudhari (pronounced CHOW-dree), the 7-Eleven franchise owner on 42nd Street, is elated. He said he had received scores of daily telephone calls about Buzz Cola, Sprinklicious doughnuts, Squishees and other ''Simpsons'' products now being sold at the store.
 A man from Albany, Mr. Chaudhari said, drove to Manhattan, the only Kwik-E-Mart in the Northeast, ''just so he could buy 'Simpsons' stuff.''
 As with the other similarly outfitted 7-Elevens, Mr. Chaudhari's business so far has doubled from the same month a year ago, he said.
 In Mr. Chaudhari's store, boxes of Frosted KrustyO's cereal note that they have ''20 percent more air!'' An image of Jasper Beardley, an older citizen of the fictional Springfield with a waist-long beard, is frozen in mistaken suspended animation in the Kwik-E-Mart freezer, as in a ''Simpsons'' episode. 
 The A.T.M. is run by the ''First Bank of Springfield,'' whose slogan is ''Misplacing Decimal Points Since 194.5.'' Several signs over sandwiches and other goods proclaim, ''Buy 3 for the Price of 3.'' 
 To complete the effect, real-world counterparts lumber past the giant cutout of ''Comic Book Guy,'' the ponytailed baby boomer with the beach ball gut, holding nachos in one hand and a graphic novel in the other.
 Of all the figures in the store, however, by far the most popular is Kwik-E-Mart's unscrupulous proprietor, Apu Nahasapeemapetilon (pronounced Ah-poo Nah-HAHS-ah-PEEMA-pet-uh-lin), born in India, with a thick accent to prove it.
 After 18 years and more than 400 episodes, ''The Simpsons'' has become America's new Don Rickles. It is a drive-by satirizer of Christians, Jews, old people, police chiefs, groundskeepers, schoolteachers, doctors and the nuclear power industry.
 At first glance, it is hard to detect that Apu is a controversial character. At the 42nd Street store, South Asians of all ages giggle, put their arms around the Apu cutout's neck and have photographs taken with him.
 But Apu has ''always grated on me,'' said Manish Vij, 34, a blogger at ultrabrown.com, which has links to other Apu critics.
 ''He is a very crude ethnic character, and while there are many other crude ethnic characters on the show,'' said Mr. Vij, a Manhattan software entrepreneur, Apu is the only one with a stereotypical singsong accent, ''like the accent that Chinese-Americans find so insulting.''
 Apu's character is also in a stereotypical business, the convenience-store industry, Mr. Vij said. By contrast, a black character on the show is a physician and a Latino character is an unemployed actor in a bee suit, he said. 
 In some parts of the country, Mr. Vij added, ''Apu'' and his signature line of dialogue, ''Thank you, come again,'' have both become racist taunts.
 Gracie Films, the Culver City, Calif., producer of ''The Simpsons,'' did not return telephone calls seeking comment yesterday .
 For Mr. Chaudhari, the 7-Eleven owner, said the dispute seemed overblown. ''You cannot take everything to heart,'' he said.
 Mr. Chaudhari, 38, has watched ''The Simpsons,'' but confessed that his 14-year-old daughter, Nisha, has to explain the jokes to him.
 Originally from Samou Motawas, a small city in the western state of Gujarat, India, Mr. Chaudhari is the son of a schoolteacher and the grandson of a school principal.
 He came to the United States in 1988, when he was 20, after getting a graduate degree in business. With the economy of India faltering, Mr. Chaudhari said, he came ''for better opportunity.''
 Working in an auto parts factory and later as the owner of a grocery store that failed, Mr. Chaudhari, following the immigrant path that inspired the Apu character, worked as a general manager for an Indian friend who owned a 7-Eleven store in New Jersey.
 There, he learned three principles:
 Emphasize customer service.
 Keep a clean store. 
 Never run out of stock. This annoys customers who cannot find a favorite product.
 ''When my team is throwing out product, like expired sandwiches, I am happy,'' Mr. Chaudhari said. ''That means they have not run out of product.''
 Has he ever been robbed?
 ''No, never,'' said Mr. Chaudhari, who also owns two 7-Elevens in New Jersey, where he lives. Each store is fully staffed with as many as four people round the clock, which Mr. Chaudhari said deters robbers. He opened the 42nd Street franchise in December 2005.
 As for the Kwik-E-Mart makeover, that ends on Tuesday. Interviewed on Friday, Mr. Chaudhari was no longer receiving orders of KrustyO's cereal and other promotional products. He said he would love for the campaign to last months longer, even, he half joked, forever. 
 But, Mr. Chaudhari said, without a trace of Apu, ''What are you going to do?''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 31, 2007

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Sunday about 7-Eleven stores that have been transformed into Kwik-E-Marts to promote the ''Simpsons'' movie misspelled the surname of the manager of one store, on 42nd Street in Manhattan. He is D. G. Suthar, not Sthar.

GRAPHIC: Photo: D. G. Sthar, a manager of the 7-Eleven on 42nd Street, and Yuka Sugahara, 22, of Emerson, N.J., with a cutout of Apu from ''The Simpsons.'' (Photograph by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMATED TELEVISION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); FRANCHISING (76%); RELIGION (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); POLICE FORCES (69%); FRANCHISEES (69%); PORT AUTHORITIES (69%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (65%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (63%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (57%); ROBBERY (55%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF SPRINGFIELD (64%); 7-ELEVEN INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (64%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (57%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (57%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); ALBANY, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2007



603 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: In the Shadow of Moby-Dick

BYLINE: By Bruce Barcott. 
Bruce Barcott is a contributing editor at Outside magazine. His book ''The Last Flight of the Scarlet Macaw'' will be published next spring.

 BODY:
Leviathan
 The History of Whaling in America. 
 By Eric Jay Dolin.
 Illustrated. 479 pp. 
 W. W. Norton & Company. $27.95.
Let others make humble claims for their subjects. Eric Jay Dolin, the author of ''Leviathan,'' stakes his proudly in the book's opening sentences. ''From the moment the Pilgrims landed until the early 20th century, whaling was a powerful force in the evolution of the country,'' he writes. ''Much of America's culture, economy and in fact its spirit were literally and figuratively rendered from the bodies of whales.'' 
 America: born of whales! 
 ''Leviathan'' is an exhaustive, richly detailed history of industrial American whaling. By the end you may or may not agree with Dolin, but you will certainly know this: Whaling was a bloody, brutal, messy, stinking, dangerous, sometimes lucrative, always high-risk business. 
 Basque whalers plied the waters off Newfoundland as early as the 1540s, and some Native American tribes may have gone whaling long before the Basques; but Dolin's history really begins in the 1620s, when English colonists began butchering whales that beached themselves or washed ashore. As William Morrell, an Episcopal clergyman who arrived in Plymouth in 1623, wrote: ''The mighty whale doth in these harbours lye, / Whose oyle the careful mearchant deare will buy.'' 
 And ''oyle'' was a precious commodity. When boiled, whale blubber produced a highly prized, long-lasting, clean-burning oil, and that oil became one of the New World's earliest exports and remained a staple of international trade for nearly 250 years. 
 The industry's progress was marked by its distance from the beach. Early colonists practiced drift whaling -- essentially, beachcombing for carcasses. In some coastal towns it was finders keepers. In others, town fathers appointed spotters ''to view & espie if there be any whales cast up'' after storms, with the spoils divided among all citizens. 
 Seeing profit in the whale harvest, colonists began shore whaling in the 1650s. Shore whaling involved posting a lookout atop a tall timber pounded into the sand. When the lookout gave the cry (''Whale off!''), the land-based crew pushed out in a small boat and pierced the whale with a harpoon attached to a rope secured to the boat. Then it was hang on for your life. ''A whale barreling along at the surface would take the men on the proverbial Nantucket sleigh ride, a bone-jarring, terrifying and, at times, no doubt exhilarating trip over the waves,'' Dolin writes. When the whale tired, the men rowed up to it and stabbed it with a long steel knife. ''Success would show itself as a geyser of crimson blood gushing from the whale's blowhole, which caused whalemen to cry out, 'Chimney's afire!' '' 
 Given our modern affection for whales, you might wonder if the whalemen felt any pangs of conscience. Probably not. ''There is no doubt that some whalemen marveled at sperm whales when they saw them, and thought about their form and beauty even as they were preparing to kill them,'' Dolin writes. ''But such musings ... were not foremost in the whalemen's minds. When whalemen looked at sperm whales they mainly saw three things that could make them money -- blubber, spermaceti and ambergris.'' (Spermaceti is a waxy substance found in the head cavity of sperm whales; it made excellent candles. Ambergris is part of the whale's intestinal lining; perfumers once used it to stabilize scent.) Dolin, the author of the ''Smithsonian Book of National Wildlife Refuges'' and other works, avoids casting moral judgments, and rightly so. Back in the day, whaling was seen as nothing more than a form of fishing. The author makes it clear that he's chronicling the history of the American whaling industry, not international whaling, which allows him to steer clear of contemporary battles over Japanese and Norwegian whaling practices. 
 That's not to say the old whalers were wise stewards of the resource. By the early 1700s they'd depleted their near-shore whaling grounds, so they began outfitting ships with dozen-strong crews and venturing farther out into the Atlantic. The industry's dominant port was Nantucket, home to a community of savvy, frugal whaling merchants. ''Quakers with a vengeance,'' Herman Melville called them. London's introduction of oil-burning streetlamps in 1736 stoked demand for whale oil. The invention of the spermaceti-oil candle expanded the market further. From the 1710s to the 1740s, Nantucket's annual oil production grew from 600 barrels to 11,250. (One whale could yield 120 to 200 barrels of oil.) Nantucket's whaleboat captains and owners prospered.
 The more whales they killed, the farther they had to sail to find more. Trips once measured in days stretched into weeks and months. Longer expeditions required bigger ships. Nantucket faced competition: New Bedford, with its deeper harbor, offered an attractive alternative to the new deep-draft vessels, which had a hard time crossing Nantucket's notorious sandbar. 
 The industry peaked between the end of the War of 1812 and the beginning of the Civil War, a half century Dolin describes as the golden age of whaling -- the period when, he writes, ''New Bedford overtook Nantucket as the nation's whaling capital, and scores of coastal towns launched their own whaling enterprises hoping to cash in on this lucrative trade. It is when the maniacal Captain Ahab met his match and his destiny in the form of Moby-Dick. It is when the whaling industry spawned most of its greatest stories of human drive, perseverance, success and failure, and when the American whalemen, harpoons in hand, attained mythic status.'' 
 America's fleet was a veritable armada. In 1846, 735 of the world's 900 whaling ships were American. Why? Because, as Dolin explains, ''American whalemen were simply the best at what they did.'' Foreign competition was less of a threat than rival industries. One of the worst disasters to hit American whaling was the gold rush of 1849, which caused hundreds of whalemen to abandon their boats in San Francisco. ''Eastern whaling merchants could do little to stop this hemorrhaging of whaling talent,'' Dolin notes. Apparently it never occurred to the merchants that an improvement of wages and working conditions -- which Dolin documents in all their wretchedness -- might stanch the flow. 
 But golden-age whalers clear-cut the seas. By the 1850s, whale populations were decimated. American whalers became de facto ambassadors, sailing to Japan and Russia and into the Arctic Ocean for their prey. 
 It was crude oil that killed the industry -- and saved the whales from extinction. Oil was discovered in Pennsylvania in 1859, and it quickly became, as Dolin writes, ''so plentiful, so versatile and so cheap that it quickly replaced whale oil in many of its applications.'' By 1862, Pennsylvania was producing three million barrels per year. Whalers managed only 155,000. 
 By the turn of the 19th century, American whaling hung on by a corset thread. The industry stayed alive by selling whale baleen for the ribbing of women's stays. Then in 1907 a Parisian designer introduced a corset-free fashion line. Women abandoned the garments, and that was the end of the American whaling industry.
 It would take courage to approach whaling as a literary subject -- everything ever written about it lives in the shadow of ''Moby-Dick'' -- and ''Leviathan'' doesn't really aspire to those heights. Accurate details and a full historical scope, not drama, are the book's driving virtues. At times that approach results in wonderful insights into whaling: a real taste of the vile life aboard a whaleship and a cleareyed analysis of the cutthroat tactics of the whale-oil trade. At other times, the details become overwhelming. In the end, though, Dolin succeeds admirably at what he sets out to do: tell the story of one of the strangest industries in American history. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Looking back at two centuries of American whaling. (Photograph by John F. Leavitt/Mystic Seaport Collection) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (90%); WHALING (89%); HISTORY (78%); WRITERS (77%); NATIVE AMERICANS (73%); BEACHES (72%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); EXPORT TRADE (68%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); COASTAL AREAS (63%)

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2007



604 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; INVESTING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: For Keogh Plans, a Technicality Could Crack a Nest Egg

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:
TENS of thousands of people who expect to realize their dreams of financially secure retirements thanks to hefty balances in their Keogh plans are actually at risk for a tax-related ordeal, financial advisers say. 
 Many self-employed people may have to pay taxes, penalties and interest on money they had thought was safely stashed in a retirement plan, even when their only violation was failure to update their plan's documents to reflect changes in the tax laws. 
 Congress established Keogh plans in 1962 to allow the self-employed to save, tax-deferred, for retirement for themselves and their employees, if they had any. In the 1980s and '90s, Keogh plans surged as Americans became more aware of the need to save money for retirement, thanks in part to the growing popularity of employer-sponsored 401(k) plans. 
 Since then, Congress has passed a number of tax laws, notably the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001, which strengthened requirements that pension plans not benefit top executives while slighting rank-and-file employees. 
 Many with Keogh plans have no other employees, but the I.R.S. is charged with enforcing the rules, said Bill Fleming, personal finance managing director at PricewaterhouseCoopers's Private Company Services practice in Hartford.
 ''Congress gave them no leeway,'' Mr. Fleming said.
 Mr. Fleming said that people often did not realize they were more than account holders; they were, legally, pension plan administrators. Older plan documents should have been amended to comply with the new laws, but many of the self-employed may have overlooked the provisions. 
 If the Internal Revenue Service audits a retirement plan and discovers that its language is noncompliant under current law, any contributions made to the plan are not tax-deductible. All tax returns for the years affected must be redone, and earnings for the period of the audit, generally three years, are treated as taxable income. In addition, interest and often penalties, as well as taxes, are assessed.
 ''We've seen a scattering of Keogh audits,'' Mr. Fleming said. ''And whenever you see a scattering, you start to get nervous.'' 
 Seymour Goldberg, a member of the I.R.S. Northeast Pension Liaison Group, which comprises 30 practitioners who work with and advise the I.R.S., confirmed that the I.R.S. was examining pension plans, including Keogh plans, for compliance issues. Mr. Goldberg, a senior partner of Goldberg & Goldberg, a law firm in Jericho, N.Y., said the pension group estimated that a third of the Keogh plans, possibly 50,000 to 100,000 plans, are not in compliance with current tax laws. 
 Although the general intent of the changes in pension law in recent years was to protect rank-and-file employees, Mr. Fleming said, the paradox of the Keogh audits is that very small businesses and solo practitioners are at risk. 
 The plans were marketed by banks and brokerage firms in the 1980s and '90s to professionals, business owners, people who consult on the side, outside directors and others who had what was legally termed self-employment income. 
 If the plan documents have not been amended to reflect the language of the new laws, they are deemed noncompliant, and thus the money in them does not qualify as tax-deferred. 
 The banks and brokerage firms were required to mailed letters to account holders telling them they needed to sign the proper legal forms, but many people apparently ignored them or mistakenly tossed them out as junk mail. They kept investing annually in their Keogh plans by putting in the amounts calculated by their tax preparers or software. They were seemingly unaware of what Mr. Fleming called ''a bunch of complicated rules they didn't understand and probably violated by accident.''
 Now, the I.R.S. is beginning to notice. Any pension plan with assets of $100,000 or more, or that once had that much, is required to file a Form 5500 or Form 5500-EZ each year, and the I.R.S. is stepping up its audits of them. 
 One man in his 80s came to Mr. Fleming for help when he received an audit notice. He was retired and drawing down his plan, which had little money left in it. 
 He no longer had the plan documents, which the I.R.S. demanded he produce, and the brokerage firm with which he opened the plan had been involved in several mergers over the years. A search in the surviving firm could not produce the documents. So he had to pay the taxes, interest and penalties assessed in the audit; in his case, the amounts were small. 
 ''Big companies have advisers, consultants and plan administrators,'' Mr. Fleming said, but noted that ''no one is looking out for the little guy.''
 Mr. Goldberg has spoken to professional groups on the issue and written books on pension law that both the American Bar Association and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants sell to their members. He has also been asked for advice on the matter by other professionals and their clients. 
 Mr. Goldberg and Mr. Fleming recommend that people who have Keogh accounts terminate them and roll the assets over into a SEP, for simplified employee pension, or a SEP-IRA. Keogh plans were popular because they allowed self-employed people to put away more money tax-deferred than an I.R.A. permitted, for example, Mr. Fleming said. However, because of the 2001 tax law, SEPs now allow equally generous tax-deferred savings of as much as $45,000 this year, depending on income. 
 But there is a big obstacle for people with noncompliant Keoghs. The money in them is regarded as tainted and will remain so even if rolled over into a SEP, so the Keogh needs to be made compliant retroactively. ''There is a whole scheme where you can confess your sins and beg the I.R.S. for forgiveness and absolution,'' Mr. Fleming said, adding that it is expensive and time-consuming.
 Mr. Goldberg called the procedure cumbersome. It means assembling the original plan documents and all the amendments that the bank or brokerage offered for its prototype documents; filling out forms in a 70-page document, Rev.Proc.2006-27; and paying a $750 fee to the I.R.S. for plans covering 20 people or fewer. Most people will need a pension consultant to do the paperwork, he said, and that could cost several thousand dollars. 
 IF a business has employees and has not contributed to the Keogh plan for them, that is a serious violation, Mr. Goldberg said. But if the only problem is a technical one -- that is, the plan's language has not been amended for current law and all the paperwork submitted is in order -- approval is assured as of the date the application is filed, although the process takes about a year.
 This voluntary compliance, while both daunting and expensive, keeps the plan tax-deferred and avoids the taxes, penalties and interest that result if a noncompliant plan is audited. 
 ''The small person is being hit with a sledgehammer,'' Mr. Goldberg said. ''There are 10,000 pages of law. Congress needs to simplify it. The law doesn't lend itself to the small employer.'' 

GRAPHIC: Drawing: (Drawing by Stuart Goldenberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX LAW (91%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); US KEOGH PLANS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); US 401K PLANS (78%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (78%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (77%); TAX AUDITS (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TAX RELIEF (72%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (70%); LEGAL SERVICES (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%)

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (90%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2007



605 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 0; Magazine; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 2841 words

HEADLINE: At War, At Home, At Risk

BYLINE: By Ayub Nuri. 
Ayub Nuri, who is based in New York City, is a freelance reporter and has worked as a researcher on Iraq for Human Rights Watch.

 BODY:
I was born in 1979 in the northern Iraqi town of Halabja. In Kurdish, Halabja means ''the wrong place,'' and that is how the town felt when I was growing up, because I never knew a life without war. My father worked in Halabja's electricity office, and we farmed for a few months every year. When I was 4, an Iraqi Army convoy passed by our farm. It was the summer of 1983, three years into the Iran-Iraq war, and as my family stood in the fields, a rocket was fired at the convoy from the Iranian mountains. It exploded yards from our house. Shrapnel took half my right knee. My grandmother was hit in the head. She died from her injuries a few months later. Mine healed, though never fully. Halabja always seemed to be under bombardment. Finally Iraqi airplanes attacked my town with chemical weapons, killing 5,000 civilians in just a few hours. Many were family friends and relatives. Growing up in this situation, I grew weary of war, but I also, in some way, lost my fear of it. 
In 2003, when the United States threatened war against Saddam Hussein, I was thrilled. I thought a U.S.-led invasion would overthrow the dreadful man whose wars took my childhood. At the time I was in Turkey as a refugee, and I was hoping to reach Europe or America. But as the war became imminent in early March of that year, I changed my mind. I bought a bus ticket and took a 21-hour trip to my home.
 It was spring, and the entire region had turned green. The mountain peaks were still covered with snow; the hillsides were colorful with wildflowers. I arrived in the city of Sulaimaniya at nightfall as a light rain washed the city. It was too late to continue my journey to Halabja, which was another hour away by car, so I checked into a hotel.
 The next morning, I met a friend at a nearby teahouse. As I was enjoying a glass of black tea, my friend told me about all the foreign journalists pouring into town. Then someone called out, ''Which one is Ayub?'' It was a man in a brown coat. He drove me to a house where two American journalists needed an interpreter to do an interview. They worked for this magazine: Elizabeth Rubin, a writer, and Lynsey Addario, a photographer. They were sitting with a local Kurdish commander waiting for someone to help them talk to him.
 When the interview was finished, they asked me to be their ''fixer.'' The word initially puzzled me. I was two years out of the Teachers' Institute in Sulaimaniya, trained to instruct children in the English alphabet and vocabulary. I would have taught those children that a ''fixer'' is a person who repairs broken machines. But in a war zone, a fixer is a journalist's interpreter, guide, source finder and occasional lifesaver. Every major media organization in Iraq would come to have its fixers. And fixers, it turned out, were well paid. I was offered $100 a day, about 25 times what I could make as a teacher.
 I was 24, and suddenly I was the eyes and ears for some of the world's top journalists. I would spend the next three years as a fixer and watch as my country learned a painful lesson: sometimes when you try to fix something, you break it even more. 
 The trigger of war was pulled on the morning of March 20, 2003. It wasn't long before fixers were dying in the line of duty, which made me and others like me think twice about our new jobs. Kamaran Abdurazaq Muhamed was a fixer with BBC-TV. Soon after the war started, he went to help film what was to be an American bombing mission aimed at an Iraqi Army position. A U.S. warplane mistakenly dropped a bomb on a convoy of U.S. Special Forces and Kurdish soldiers. The accident killed 18 people and injured 45, among them Kamaran. He later died. 
 When Baghdad fell, on April 9, 2003, journalists in the north wanted to go south. Until then I had never seen Baghdad, the capital of my country. As a child I always thought of Baghdad as a big city crowded with people and cars at night, but now the city was dark and lifeless -- a sad place. 
 In Baghdad, too, the journalists were hiring fixers. I quickly became friends with fixers for National Public Radio, Knight Ridder, The Boston Globe, the BBC and The Times of London. To them I was a novelty because the Kurdish areas of Iraq had essentially split from the rest of the country in 1991. The fixers would quiz me about the north, and I asked them for directions and addresses in Baghdad when I needed them. I supported the war, as did many of my countrymen and pretty much all the fixers. We thought that only a powerful outside force could take on the job of ousting Saddam. The war also brought an economic boom. People began to refurbish their houses. In some streets, the sidewalks were piled with boxes containing TV sets, air-conditioners and other appliances. People thought Iraq would become a kind of 51st state. Everyone wanted to find a job with a news agency, a foreign company or the U.S. Army. Speaking English was a key for success in ''the new Iraq,'' so English schools sprang up around Baghdad. 
 I rented an apartment in Karrada, a Christian neighborhood in Baghdad. One Friday I was wandering Mutanabi Street, which has a book market with a popular teahouse. In one of the bookstores I found 27 Agatha Christies in English. I wanted to buy them all because I love her books. Instead, Elizabeth bought them and gave them to me as a present. I sat and relaxed at that teahouse, drinking tea and browsing through my new books. It was one of the happiest days of my life. 
 n a televised address on May 1, 2003, President Bush announced, ''Major combat operations in Iraq have ended.'' But the war had only entered a new phase. A few weeks after Bush's announcement, American troops were battling insurgents across Iraq. Humvees were being blown up by roadside bombs, and some Iraqis were beginning to settle old scores among themselves, often fatally. All of these were stories for the Western journalists. 
 My responsibilities as a fixer were rapidly expanding. I was not only taking reporters around the country and interpreting for them and then choosing safe routes home, but I was also finding people to be interviewed. Then, five months into the new phase of the war, Elizabeth was leaving Iraq, which meant I was out of a job. But before she left, she introduced me to Quil Lawrence, an American reporter for the BBC who worked for the show ''The World.'' 
 Quil needed a fixer, and I was very excited to work with him. I grew up listening to the BBC; my father was fond of radio, and he used to listen to the Arabic and Persian services. Almost every morning I woke to the sound of Big Ben. At 19, I bought my own radio to listen to the BBC; this is how I started learning English. After a while I memorized the names of all the BBC programs and their reporters. I would daydream about being a radio reporter and having a ''sign off'' as a foreign correspondent. 
 Every morning, Quil and I would set out for interviews along with our driver, Abdulrazzaq. We did political reports as well as human-interest stories on reconstruction, the printing of new textbooks, the release of new albums by local singers. From the beginning, I watched carefully as reporters asked questions. When I began working with radio reporters, I also learned the techniques of recording. But I was still trying to figure out the rules of journalism. Every time we interviewed someone I thought we had enough to write a story, but the reporters always wanted to meet a variety of people. I thought to myself, But that guy told us everything. I did not understand the concept of interviewing multiple sources. 
 Other Iraqi journalists were getting a similar education. During Saddam's regime, the media were controlled by the state, and journalism was not an enviable profession. But only a few months after Saddam was toppled, there were more than 100 newspapers being published in Baghdad alone. Newsboys stood on street corners with packs of colorful newspapers on their shoulders. It was a turning point in the history of the Iraqi media. 
 Soon, however, the situation in Iraq grew much worse. The insurgency spread to cities, and all foreign nationals became targets. The fixers were in danger, too. The insurgents hated fixers. They called us ''collaborators.'' They broke into my apartment three times in Baghdad, but luckily I wasn't there. Many of my fixer friends received letters from armed groups ordering them to quit their jobs or they would be killed. At times, fixers have been killed without warning. Just two weeks ago, Khalid W. Hassan, a 23-year-old interpreter and reporter with The New York Times in Baghdad, was on his way to the bureau when he was stopped by gunmen and shot dead.
 Though fixers run as many and often more risks than Western reporters, we haven't had the same protections. There have been no insurance plans to cover us, no guidelines on what we should wear or when it is O.K. for us to travel for a story. As Iraqi natives, we have been expected to use our judgment about these things. Even large American newspapers like The Times can't guarantee that they will be able to help fixers if they become targets. And while American news organizations have often supported fixers' applications for visas to the United States, the U.S. government does not see itself as having a special obligation to them.
 Many Americans don't realize how central Iraqis are to bringing them the news they read every morning -- that if Iraqis didn't risk their lives everyday, Western reporters wouldn't be able to do their jobs. But most of the journalists we worked with knew, even before we did, that they would come to rely on us more and more. 
 One day, Quil and I were sitting in our hotel-room studio when he turned to me and said it was time for me to learn how to edit sound on the computer and file radio pieces myself. 
 I asked him why.
 ''One day we won't be able to come to this country anymore,'' he said. ''You fixers will have to replace us.'' 
 In March 2004, insurgents in Falluja killed four American contractors, mutilating their bodies and hanging two of them from a bridge over the Euphrates. As U.S. troops entered the city to battle Sunni insurgents, the followers of the radical Shiite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr began clashing with coalition forces throughout Iraq. This countrywide revolt signaled the end of even the little safety foreign reporters still enjoyed. Often, now, they were afraid to leave their hotel rooms. Increasingly, they were asking their fixers to go out and do interviews for them. It was challenging, but we were happy to do it on our own -- and honestly, it was a huge relief to no longer have to worry about the reporters' safety. I began going out with the radio equipment to interview the police, militia leaders and people on the street. I would take the tape back to the hotel and give it to the reporter or reporters I was working for. Sometimes a reporter would call me on my cellphone and tell me whom to interview and even what questions to ask. And sometimes I would do my own article. Some fixers had so much autonomy -- this was especially true of those who worked with print journalists -- that after doing interviews and research for an article they would get a byline in a foreign paper. 
 In the fall of 2004 Iraq's political parties were preparing for general elections. At the same time, American troops were preparing for their second attack on Falluja -- to make the city ''safe for voters,'' they said. In this assault many hundreds of Iraqis, among them civilians, were killed. The attack came seven months after the disclosure of the torture of Iraqi prisoners at Abu Ghraib. I had always justified the war by saying it would bring democracy and freedom. But when I saw the pictures of the prisoners at Abu Ghraib, I was so disgusted that I wanted to give up my job as a fixer and anything else that had to do with the English language and America. 
 Amid my anger and disillusionment, I recognized that as a journalist I was in the right place to help Iraq. A few weeks before the elections, Quil told me it was time for me to do my own radio pieces. With the recording equipment in my bag, I set off. First I went to the headquarters of the Supreme Islamic Iraqi Council. At the gate I introduced myself as a BBC reporter and showed the guard my press badge. 
 They ushered me into a room that had a set of new and comfortable sofas. A man in a blue suit stepped into the room and introduced himself as the party's spokesman. A moment later a young man brought us two cups of tea, which we sipped while talking. When the interview was over, I noticed the man seemed very happy to meet a BBC reporter. If only he had known how I was feeling. I was so nervous the entire time, sitting with the spokesman of the most powerful party and dealing with all the equipment. The minute the interview ended, I couldn't remember the taste of the tea or a single sentence he said. Luckily I managed to work the tape recorder properly. 
 Over the next two days I met a range of politicians and people in the street. The Iraqis I talked to were angry about the plan to attack Falluja. One man told me, ''You cannot hold an election on the blood of Iraqis.'' I took the tapes back to the office, and I sat down to write my script. Finally it was time to read my piece over an ISDN line that would allow me to be recorded in the studios in Boston. My report was broadcast the next day. The only way for me to listen to my story was via the Internet, so I logged in and listened to it over and over again. I was not paid for that story because I was still in training, but my ''sign off'' dream had finally come true. 
 ''For The World, this is Ayub Nuri, in Baghdad.'' 
 There was so much for me to learn. I especially wanted to improve my writing skills so that I might one day write for foreign newspapers. I often found radio frustrating. I would work on a story for a week, and it would air for only four minutes. A newspaper article would stay around for at least a day, I thought to myself. I had also had enough of covering the everyday violence and needed to get away. My American journalist friends encouraged me to apply to Columbia University's journalism school. It was an online application, with which I was unfamiliar, but my friends helped me out with the process. 
 Last summer, I received a scholarship from Columbia. I was very excited to begin that new experience and get away from the war for a while. Unfortunately, the American Embassy in Baghdad -- the biggest U.S. embassy in the world, with thousands of employees -- does not issue many visas, so Iraqi citizens have to risk their lives driving through hostile areas where the insurgency is still at its strongest to get to Jordan and apply for visas at the embassy there. I spent several thousand dollars flying back and forth to Jordan applying for my student visa. Then I waited 47 days while the Department of Homeland Security screened my application. I checked my e-mail eagerly until the weeks of waiting killed my excitement. Finally, at 2 o'clock one morning, my phone rang, and I was told that my visa was ready. I had only a few hours to say goodbye to my family. I landed at Kennedy Airport the night before my classes started. 
 Soon I faced a big challenge. The first semester, I had a class called Reporting and Writing I. I was assigned to cover Sunset Park in Brooklyn. When I interviewed people there, I did not understand many of the things they said. In class, I would sit with a dozen American students, and the professor would be talking about something, and suddenly everyone was laughing -- but I had no idea why. One day during a local primary election, I stepped into a class, and my adjunct professor said, ''Ayub, you are going to cover the S.P. Maloney race.'' I did not know what S.P. Maloney meant, and by ''race'' I wondered if he meant a horse race or the human race. 
 Several other Iraqi fixers have also come to the United States to attend journalism school. We all face the same problem: understanding local issues. One, Omar Fekeiki, now studies at U.C. Berkeley's journalism school. ''In Iraq I was a king, but here I am nothing,'' Omar complained to me on the phone one day. ''Now I need a fixer myself.'' When we left Iraq, we were all planning to go back after graduation. But the worsening war has made return all but impossible. We are stranded here. Every time we speak with our families on the phone, they tell us not to come home. 
 ''At least one less person to worry about,'' they say.
 Many of the fixers fled Iraq and are now refugees in neighboring countries. Those who remained risk their lives every day. Some of them have big families to feed, so they stay. But some fixers I know refuse to leave the country merely out of loyalty to their trade. We welcomed the U.S. war with a lot of hope. We changed careers and became fixers to help Iraq. Some of us paid with our lives. Now we are no longer sure we will ever be able to fix anything. 

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Mark Abrahams) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (87%); WRITERS (84%); JOURNALISM (84%); INTERVIEWS (84%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); ARMIES (73%); REFUGEES (72%); MOUNTAINS (70%); TRAVEL TICKETS (68%); TEACHER EDUCATION (60%)

COMPANY: TEACHERS' INSTITUTE FOR SPECIAL EDUCATION (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%); TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2007



606 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4377 words

HEADLINE: Our War on Terror

BYLINE: By Samantha Power. 
Samantha Power is the Anna Lindh professor of the practice of global leadership at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard.

 BODY:
The day after the 9/11 attacks, President George W. Bush declared the strikes by Al Qaeda ''more than acts of terror. They were acts of war.'' Bush's ''war on terror'' was ''not a figure of speech,'' he said. Rather, it was a defining framework. The war, Bush announced, would begin with Al Qaeda, but would ''not end until every terrorist group of global reach has been found, stopped and defeated.'' The global war on terror, he said, was the ''inescapable calling of our generation.'' 
The phrase and the agenda that grew out of it caught on, and from 9/11 onward, the administration used its pulpit to propagate several new premises. First, with the threat of Islamic radical terrorism, new rules, new tools and new mind-sets had to be devised to meet the novelty of the menace. As Vice President Dick Cheney put it, ''old doctrines of security do not apply.'' The criminal justice approach of trying terrorists would have to be scrapped, supplanted by a military approach. Second, we were told, the states that sponsored terrorism or offered lodging to terrorists had to be treated the same way as those nonstate actors who carried out the threats. Even more dramatically, America's friends had to prove their loyalty by taking concrete steps in our global war. As Bush put it, the ''duties'' of peace-loving people ''involve more than sympathy or words. No nation can be neutral.'' By requiring governments to step up, we would be able to root out the unreliable and distribute sanctions and favors accordingly.
 Third, since international treaties and institutions often constrained Washington's ability to combat terrorism on its own terms, they should be dipped into and exploited selectively. While it was true that other countries valued those laws and institutions, the gravity of the terrorist threat would ultimately unite nations with shared interests. The urgency of the common cause would override choosiness about the means. Our allies would need us more than we would need them, so we could count on them to rally to our side in a crunch.
 And fourth, in Bush's view, wartime demanded a strong commander in chief, and he would be far more effective prosecuting the war if he could free himself of the meddlesome legislative, judicial and even interagency checks fashionable in peacetime. Surely, Bush's team argued, the extreme continuing threats to our national security warranted a dramatic expansion of presidential power.
 Six years later, most Americans still rightly believe that the United States must confront Islamic terrorism -- and must be relentless in preventing terrorist networks from getting weapons of mass destruction. But Bush's premises have proved flawed, and the war-on-terror frame has obscured more than it has clarified.
 As with the war on drugs and the war on crime, the invocation of ''war'' initially seemed metaphorical (we do not send the 82nd Airborne into downtown Detroit to combat street crime). But in the terrorism context, war proved less a rhetorical frame than a strategic assertion that armed conflict (that is, ground and air invasions of other countries) was the main tool the United States should employ to neutralize terrorism. The United Nations-endorsed war against the Taliban regime in Afghanistan gave way to a period in which the Bush administration used its post-9/11 political capital to smuggle its pre-existing anti-Saddam Hussein agenda to the fore -- with disastrous results for American forces, for Iraq and for the wider strategic goal of eliminating Al Qaeda and other terrorist groups.
 Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld offered perhaps the best standard by which to measure the Bush administration's performance: ''Are we capturing, killing or deterring and dissuading more terrorists every day than the madrassas and the radical clerics are recruiting, training and deploying against us?'' Leaked intelligence reports have shown that the answer is negative. The administration's tactical and strategic blunders have crippled American military readiness; exposed vulnerabilities in training, equipment and force structure; and accelerated terrorist recruitment. In short, although the United States has not been directly hit since 9/11, we are less safe as a result of the Bush administration's rhetoric, conduct and strategy.
 The war rhetoric has raised expectations that a ''complete victory'' is not only possible, but in fact necessary (even as Bush's 2002 National Security Strategy preamble reminds us that it will be a ''global enterprise of uncertain duration''). That same rhetoric has licensed the executive branch to remove itself from traditional legal frameworks and consolidate power in imperial fashion. And the torture, kidnappings and indefinite detentions carried out at the behest of senior administration officials have blurred the moral distinction between ''us'' and ''them'' on which much of Bush's logic rested.
 While our allies still share intelligence with us in order to combat domestic terrorism, our disavowal of international law has made it harder for our friends to contribute military and even financial resources to shore up failing states like Afghanistan, which is portrayed by the opposition in countries like Canada and the Netherlands as one of Bush's wars. Many of our friends believe that too close an association with American objectives will make them electorally vulnerable and their cities potential targets.
 Moreover, by branding the cause a war and calling the enemy terror, the administration has lumped like with unlike foes and elevated hostile elements from the ranks of the criminal (stigmatized in all societies) to the ranks of soldiers of war (a status that carries connotations of sacrifice and courage). Although anybody taking aim at the American superpower would have seemed an underdog, the White House's approach enhanced the terrorists' cachet, accentuating the image of self-sacrificing Davids taking up slingshots against a rich, flaccid, hypocritical Goliath. In rejecting the war-on-terror frame recently, Hilary Benn, the British secretary of state for international development, argued: ''What these groups want is to force their individual and narrow values on others, without dialogue, without debate, through violence. And by letting them feel part of something bigger, we give them strength.''
 But criticizing the calamities of the last six years of American foreign policy has become all too easy. And it does not itself improve our approach to combating terrorist threats that do in fact loom large -- larger, in fact, because of Bush's mistakes. The challenge now is to accept that just because George W. Bush hyped the threat does not mean the threat should be played down. Rather, we must urgently set about reversing the harm done to the nation's standing and security by simultaneously reasserting the moral difference between the United States and Islamic terrorists and by developing a 21st-century toolbox to minimize actual terrorist threats. Several new books take up this challenge, each addressing a different piece of the national security predicament. Together, they allow one to begin to define a new approach to counterterrorism.
 If the United States is to reduce the terrorist threat (diminishing both the probability of attack and the likely scale of harm), the next president must do a far better job of improving the security of civilians abroad, discerning and exploiting fissures among our enemies, persuading our allies to share the burdens of tackling terrorism and strengthening our capacity to withstand attacks at home. None of these steps will be taken in earnest unless we acknowledge the fallacies not simply of Bush's post-9/11 policies but also of his post-9/11 premises. One question in particular hangs over this discussion: Are the American and international publics so disenchanted with Bush's effort to curb terrorism the wrong way that they will deprive his successor of the resources he or she needs to change course?
 The book to begin with in looking for a revised 21st-century strategy is, unexpectedly, the landmark U.S. Army/Marine Corps Counterinsurgency Field Manual (University of Chicago, paper, $15). It was released as a government document in December 2006, but owing to its enormous popularity (1.5 million downloads in the first month alone), it has now been published by a university press, with a provocative, highly readable new foreword and introduction that testify to the manual's ''paradigm-shattering'' content. 
 When the terrorists struck on 9/11, the United States military was singularly unprepared to deal with them. One reflection of the Pentagon's mind-set at the time was the fact that the Army counterinsurgency manual had not been updated since 1986 and the Marine Corps guide had not been revised since 1980.
 This lack of preparedness showed. In Afghanistan and Iraq, the armed forces did not have the appropriate intelligence, linguistic capabilities, weapons, equipment, force structures, civil affairs know-how or capacity to train security forces in other countries. ''It is not unfair to say that in 2003 most Army officers knew more about the U.S. Civil War than they did about counterinsurgency,'' Lt. Col. John A. Nagl writes in the foreword to the University of Chicago edition. But while the Bush administration dug in, refusing to admit how ill-suited its premises were to the new century, American military officers revised their old doctrines on the fly.
 The leading architect of the manual was David Petraeus, then a lieutenant general, who commanded the 101st Airborne Division in the initial invasion of Iraq in 2003 and took responsibility for governing Mosul, Iraq's second-largest city, immediately thereafter. He is now the overall American commander in Iraq. Petraeus emphasized economic and political development and is said to have asked his soldiers, ''What have you done for the people of Iraq today?'' He worked with another military man who also saw that his job would have to be more than strictly military -- Lt. Gen. James Mattis, who commanded the First Marine Division during the initial invasion and then in 2004 returned to help stabilize Anbar Province. His division motto was ''No Better Friend, No Worse Enemy -- First Do No Harm.'' In February 2006, while the new counterinsurgency doctrine was still being drafted, and while international criticism of American military excesses mounted, Petraeus invited journalists, human rights lawyers, academics and practitioners of counterinsurgency to Fort Levenworth to vet a draft, initiating what participants characterized as one of the most open and productive exchanges of ideas they had ever witnessed.
 The fundamental premise of the manual is that the key to successful counterinsurgency is protecting civilians. The manual notes: ''An operation that kills five insurgents is counterproductive if collateral damage leads to the recruitment of 50 more insurgents.'' It suggests that force size be calculated in relation not to the enemy, but to inhabitants (a minimum of 20 counterinsurgents per 1,000 residents). It emphasizes the necessity of coordination with beefed-up civilian agencies, which are needed to take on reconstruction and development tasks. 
 The most counterintuitive, as well as the most politically difficult, premise of the manual is that the American military must assume greater risk in order to gather much-needed intelligence and, in the end, achieve greater safety. The emphasis of the 1990s on force protection is overturned by the assertion of several breathtaking paradoxes: ''Sometimes, the more you protect your force, the less secure you may be.'' ''Sometimes, the more force is used, the less effective it is.'' ''Sometimes doing nothing is the best reaction.'' Sarah Sewall, a former Pentagon official who teaches at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University (and a close colleague of mine), has contributed an introduction that should be required reading for anybody who wants to understand the huge demands effective counterinsurgency will place on the military and the voting public. ''Those who fail to see the manual as radical probably don't understand it,'' she writes, ''or at least what it's up against.''
 Sewall can say what the generals who devised the manual cannot. She addresses the concern that the manual is nothing more than a ''marketing campaign for an inherently inhumane concept of war,'' arguing that if politicians continue to put young American men and women in harm's way, military leaders have an obligation to enhance effectiveness, which in a globalized era cannot be disentangled from taking better care of civilians. Military actions that cause civilian deaths, she argues, are not simply morally questionable; they are self-defeating. 
 But Sewall explains that even if the military can overcome the substantial challenges of executing such a counterintuitive doctrine -- and here the near-daily reports of large-scale civilian loss of life as a result of United States counterinsurgency operations in Afghanistan and Iraq are a reminder of the yawning gap between theory and practice -- it will not succeed if it does not get the civilian leadership and support it needs. The military does not have the expertise to perform the range of economic and political tasks associated with nation-building, but in Iraq and Afghanistan, as civilian reconstruction teams went unstaffed, it was forced to pinch-hit. Sewall rightly calls for the ''risks and costs of counterinsurgency'' to be spread across the American government, but notes this is not an overnight job. ''More people play in Army bands than serve in the U.S. foreign service,'' she writes. 
 The manual shows that the demands of counterinsurgency are greater than those the American public has yet been asked to bear. Sewall is skeptical that the public -- now feeling burned by Iraq -- will muster the will, even in Afghanistan, to ''supply greater concentrations of forces, accept higher casualties, fund serious nation-building and stay many long years to conduct counterinsurgency by the book.''
 While the United States military's new counterinsurgency doctrine is based on achieving legitimacy with the local population, Ian Shapiro, a professor of political science at Yale, believes American foreign policy as a whole must vastly increase its legitimacy if it is to defang terrorists in the long term. For this to happen, he writes in his book CONTAINMENT: Rebuilding a Strategy Against Global Terror (Princeton University, $24.95), the president's critics in the Democratic Party must stop freezing like ''donkeys in the headlights'' in the face of Bush's war on terror and instead put forth an alternative strategy. ''You can't beat something with nothing,'' he insists. Shapiro argues for a return to the cold war rubric of ''containment'' -- a halfway house between ''appeasement and the chimerical aspiration to achieve U.S. control over the global security environment.''
 While Bush's 2002 National Security Strategy preamble says that in the ''new world,'' the ''only path to peace and security is the path of action,'' Shapiro shows how aggressive action has played into the hands of terrorist recruiters. When vital interests are imperiled, war may be necessary, he concedes. But generally the United States will invite fewer threats if, rather than attempting to achieve military hegemony, it employs economic, political and law-enforcement tools. ''The idea behind containment,'' Shapiro writes, ''is to refuse to be bullied, while at the same time declining to become a bully.''
 Shapiro is at his most persuasive when he argues against lumping Islamic radical threats together. He points out that at the time of the cold war, George Kennan, the formulator of the containment policy, warned against treating Communism as a monolith. Policy makers, Kennan said, ought to emphasize the differences among and within Communist groups and ''contribute to the widening of these rifts without assuming responsibility.'' The Bush administration, by contrast, has grouped together a hugely diverse band of violent actors as terrorists, failing to employ divide-and-conquer tactics. 
 Although it is tempting to feel overwhelmed by the diversity of the threats aligned against the United States, Shapiro says that very diversity presents us with opportunities, since it ''creates tensions among our adversaries' agendas, as well as openings for competition among them.'' To pry apart violent Islamic radicals, the United States has to become knowledgeable about internal cleavages and be patient in exploiting them. Arguably, this is what American forces in Iraq are doing belatedly -- and perilously -- as they undertake the high-risk approach of turning Sunni ex-Baathists against Qaeda forces.
 Shapiro argues, much as the Counterinsurgency Field Manual does, that the United States must learn to get inside the minds of its enemies, to try to see the world as they do. Take Iran, for example. A Bush administration that had stepped into Iran's shoes might have toned down its inflammatory rhetoric, having seen that the American occupations of Afghanistan and Iraq would be, in Shapiro's words, ''as if the Soviet Union had occupied Canada and Mexico at the height of the cold war, and had its fleet anchored off Cuba.'' United States intelligence capacities, he says, must be revamped so that policy makers in Washington can guard against a ''propensity to confuse leaders the United States might regard as desirable with leaders who actually enjoy legitimacy on the ground.''
 Had President Bush adopted Shapiro's approach on Sept. 12, 2001, it is quite likely that he would have had more success in marginalizing adversaries. Security Council powerhouses like Russia and China would still have thrown their weight around in ways that the administration would have found problematic, but Washington would have been better able to coerce or persuade the fence sitters. Today, however, containment is more challenging than it was before 9/11, or in the days of the cold war. 
 In addition, for containment to work, Washington needs to be able to deliver credible threats. The irony of Bush's flawed approach is that it has exposed the limits of American enforcement tools, stretching military and financial resources beyond recognition. This has a doubly negative effect: it emboldens those who need to be contained, and it deters those we once might have counted on for help in doing the containing.
 Shapiro seems consoled by his belief that the threat we now face is not new -- that the potential accessibility of weapons of mass destruction has not changed anything fundamental in the global order from the cold war years. Nuclear weapons, he writes, are too hard to assemble, and biological agents too hard to store; chemical weapons, though a genuine danger, are not a new one. ''Nothing in the nature of the materials themselves,'' he says, ''presents a qualitatively new threat.'' But here, he seems far too eager to minimize the threat, perhaps fearing that by conceding any aspect of the Bush doctrine, he somehow legitimizes the whole flawed approach. In fact, after six years of dishonesty and alarmism, it seems especially important -- if challenging -- to retain a capacity for grave, calibrated concern about the proliferation of nuclear aspirant states and their proud ties to terrorist networks.
 How real is the difference between our foes and us? One of the most incisive challenges to current debates comes from Talal Asad, whose On Suicide Bombing (Columbia University, $19.95) argues that the distinction between what Bush calls ''us'' and ''them'' exists in the heads of Western leaders, publics and intellectuals, but not in reality. Asad, a professor of anthropology at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York, takes aim less at the Bush administration than at the rest of us, and at what he sees as our unspoken complicity in ''some kinds of cruelty as opposed to others.'' He hopes, he writes, to ''disturb the reader sufficiently'' by showing the hypocrisy of rules that permit murderous conduct by states but deny it to nonstate actors. And he is angered by scholars, theorists and journalists who don't speak Arabic and have never set foot in the Middle East, yet sound off about why suicide bombers do what they do. He is understandably aghast that the American public has expressed so little shock over the bloodshed inflicted in its name. And by the end of the book, his rage has overtaken him. The Bush administration's actions in the Middle East have left him so disgusted that he declares simply, ''It seems to me that there is no moral difference between the horror inflicted by state armies (especially if those armies belong to powerful states that are unaccountable to international law) and the horror inflicted by insurgents.''
 It is hard to answer Asad's argument without drifting into the distinctions he attempts to demolish. For instance, he cites the political philosopher Michael Walzer's definition of the ''peculiar evil of terrorism,'' which, according to Walzer, is ''not only the killing of innocent people but also the intrusion of fear into everyday life, the violation of private purposes, the insecurity of public spaces, the endless coerciveness of precaution.'' Asad then asks why the United States' war in Iraq and the Israeli cluster bombs in Lebanon do not earn the same condemnation as bombs wielded by terrorists. But if you continue to believe (as I do) that there is a moral difference between setting out to destroy as many civilians as possible and killing civilians unintentionally and reluctantly in pursuit of a military objective, you will indeed find ''On Suicide Bombing'' disturbing, if not always in the way he intends. 
 Nonetheless, Asad's book is valuable because the legal distinctions he is challenging are especially vulnerable now. They are vulnerable sociologically, in that millions -- if not billions -- of people around the world do not see the difference between a suicide bomber's attack on a pizzeria and an American attack on what turns out to be a wedding party. Asad's challenge is one politicians must answer if they stand any chance of recapturing hearts and minds. At the same time, when a war is fought on false grounds, like that in Iraq, the notion of ''collateral damage'' breaks down, since one must ask what civilian harm could possibly be justified in a war that was itself unnecessary.
 Revamping our approach to terrorism requires changes that extend far beyond the battlefields of Iraq all the way back to the American homefront. Remarkably, despite six years of warnings about ''imminent threats'' and inevitable mushroom clouds, the Bush administration has not led the country into taking precautions that would reduce mass casualties in the event of a major terrorist strike. The White House's emphasis on war has come at the expense of homefront preparedness. For Stephen Flynn, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, we are a surprisingly ''brittle nation.'' 
 By defining American security objectives in military terms, the Bush administration has failed to set achievable goals that could vastly decrease the human and financial damage from a large-scale attack at home. While the United States military has done its best to adjust to the inadequacies recent conflicts have exposed, almost no meaningful midcourse corrections have been made on the homefront, Flynn argues in The Edge of Disaster: Rebuilding a Resilient Nation (Random House, $25.95) -- not in educating the public, training emergency responders, fortifying ''soft targets,'' securing hazardous materials or strengthening critical infrastructure.
 Regardless of how catastrophic or imminent one believes the threats are, and regardless of whether American legitimacy can be retrieved abroad, the government has an obligation to protect its citizens and its infrastructure from future attack. Flynn reminds us of the importance of ''resiliency'' -- the ability to recover from a disaster. ''A society that can match its strength to deliver a punch with the means to take one,'' he writes, ''makes an unattractive target.''
 Flynn observes that the twin catastrophes of 9/11 and Hurricane Katrina testify to major gaps in our preparedness and competence. He calls for open debates about our vulnerabilities. Exposing our weaknesses will not empower our foes, he insists, but will help build broad support at home for a reallocation of resources. ''What makes a disaster a true catastrophe,'' Flynn says, ''has more to do with our own acts of omission or commission than with the forces that lie beyond our control.'' Publicity and free discussion are necessary to produce political action.
 None of the recommendations outlined in any of these books would be easy to achieve under the best of circumstances. But what is striking is how few have even been pursued. The Bush administration's unwillingness to admit failure causes it to cling to a flawed approach rather than revisit its premises, adopt a new strategy or experiment with new tactics.
 The president, apparently, remains determined to treat the American people as if they have no role to play in what will, in fact, be a ''global struggle of uncertain duration.'' In a January interview with Jim Lehrer, Bush was asked why he hadn't called for more Americans to ''sacrifice something.'' He said: ''Well, you know, I think a lot of people are in this fight. I mean, they sacrifice peace of mind when they see the terrible images of violence on TV every night.''
 The effect of such an attitude is not simply that the American military will continue to bear the lion's share of the national security burden -- a burden, the Counterinsurgency Field Manual practically screams out, the military cannot meet alone. It is that the American public, with little faith in the credibility of the government's claims, may deny even cleareyed leaders the resources they need to meet the complex demands of neutralizing modern threats.h
 Will the United States military have to assume greater risks to achieve greater safety in the end? 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A lost bag in Times Square, July 10, 2007. (Photograph by Brendan McDermid/Reuters)
An American soldier on foot patrol in Baghdad in March. (Photograph by Robert King/Polaris)
 London, July 8, 2005. (Photograph by Peter Macdiarmid/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (97%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (74%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (73%); RELIGION (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (91%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (76%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (76%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2007



607 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; EDITORIALS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Congestion Pricing, Still Alive

 BODY:
There were more fits than starts along the way, but lawmakers in Albany last week finally passed legislation that keeps the city's congestion pricing proposal alive. The bill was a critical, if belated, step, deserving of bows by all concerned, starting with Gov. Eliot Spitzer, legislative leaders and Mayor Michael Bloomberg. There's much more work to be done, however, before New York can begin to get a handle on gridlock and pollution by reducing the number of cars and trucks on its streets. 
The bill authorizes a commission to draw up a plan to mitigate traffic congestion; among the proposals to be considered is congestion pricing, which means charging drivers a fee to enter the central city, as Mr. Bloomberg has proposed. This was not a complete victory for the mayor. There are many pitfalls ahead requiring negotiation, beginning with the selection of the panel's 17 members, who must at least be open to the mayor's courageous vision.
 A final plan would have to be approved by lawmakers in both the City Council and the state legislature. That will inevitably create opportunities for political grandstanding but will also allow for serious discussions, which should include the public. 
 The bill also requires a federal contribution. That is still possible. For various reasons, Albany's lawmakers missed by nearly two weeks a deadline for federal aid set by the Department of Transportation. However, federal officials -- including Transportation Secretary Mary Peters -- have praised the mayor's plan, and have not ruled out giving the city a slice of the $1.2 billion Washington has set aside to help cities ease congestion. 
 Nine cities are competing for a piece of that pie, and the expectation has been that New York would be awarded about $500 million.
 That kind of windfall would buy a lot of additional buses, ferries and subway upgrades -- all needed, and soon, if commuters who now drive are to be coaxed out of their cars and into public transit. Before any fees for cars are charged, mass transportation must be improved; otherwise, the idea loses its legs.
 While other cities have mostly focused on fixing congestion on highways in and around them, the Bloomberg plan is centered on reducing traffic in Manhattan's main business district. The area accounts for nearly half of the region's $900 billion economy, but its streets are a mess. The mayor is betting that the fees will cause drivers to think twice before traveling south of 86th Street in Manhattan.
 Under his plan, cars would pay $8, trucks $21, and tolls from bridges and tunnels would be deducted. The fees could be expected to bring in hundreds of millions of dollars that would be used to expand and improve public transit. Or they could be used to help keep down bus, subway and train fares. 
 Less traffic would also mean quicker commutes, less pollution and a freer flow of commerce. And a larger, positive impact would ripple through the region's roadways, where commutes begin.
 Versions of congestion pricing have been successful in London and Stockholm. Mr. Bloomberg became a convert to the idea as he sought ways to put New York at the forefront of efforts to reduce tailpipe emissions that cause smog and contribute to global warming. Now he -- and the city -- are inching closer to a healthier and cleaner future. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); MAYORS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (87%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (85%); APPROVALS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (67%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (71%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%); MARY PETERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2007



608 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 29, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: Helicopters Can Hush Themselves

BYLINE: By Todd Rome. 
Todd Rome is the president and co-founder of Blue Star Jets.

DATELINE: Southampton 

 BODY:
THE number of helicopters flying low over eastern Long Island has risen steadily in the past few years. And noise complaints are up. As the president of a company that books helicopters to Long Island and a resident of Southampton, I can attest to the increasing chop chop of whirlybirds overhead.
The problem needs to be addressed without delay. But Senator Charles Schumer's solution, to require that the Federal Aviation Administration study ways to divert helicopter flight paths away from homes, is not a good one. It would be far too complicated and costly. A much easier and less expensive approach would be to work with helicopter operators to voluntarily reduce noise. 
 Part of the reason helicopters are so difficult to regulate is that they are not all alike and do not all generate the same amount of noise. Age, size and other factors make some louder than others. (The newer models are typically the quietest.) Helicopters also have a broad range of flying abilities. Some can always follow flight patterns that keep them up high or out over the water. But those that lack the kind of navigation equipment needed to maneuver in fog sometimes need to move inland and lower for better visibility. 
 Helicopters serving a variety of purposes -- including traffic reporting, heavy lifting for construction, law enforcement and air ambulance work -- fly over eastern Long Island. And though Senator Schumer suggests that emergency and news helicopters should be exempt from flight pattern regulations in times of emergency, he does not anticipate how these helicopters could clog flight corridors, or suggest where other helicopters should go when they do.
 Nor does he take into account the many different airports on eastern Long Island. As often happens in busy airspaces, helicopters and other small aircraft are pushed out by airplanes carrying more passengers. When flight patterns are interrupted in this way, helicopter pilots need to move out of the corridor to keep traffic moving. 
 To regulate helicopter routes would also be bad for the economy, given how fast the helicopter industry is now growing. Helicopter operators from outside the New York region would be discouraged from flying here, and that could put a damper on local business.
 Helicopter owners and operators have already demonstrated their willingness to cut back on noise. In the late '90s, when noise complaints about sightseeing helicopters in New York City skyrocketed, the F.A.A. worked with local operators to develop voluntary strategies like not flying in the early morning or after dark and keeping whenever possible to routes over the Hudson and East Rivers. The result was a significant reduction in the number of noise complaints. Many of the same Manhattan operators also run choppers out to Long Island. One way to begin to resolve the noise problem on eastern Long Island would be to simply expand the scope of the New York City agreements.
 Indeed, steps are already being taken to reduce flight noise in residential areas. East Hampton Airport, the most popular landing place, has established noise abatement policies that govern helicopters. It now requires, for example, that helicopters maintain high altitude until they are cleared to land, and that they land by 11 p.m. And several companies are now working to develop technology that will aid aircraft in finding quieter flight routes. 
 My company, Blue Star Jets, has asked all the helicopter companies that fly our customers to keep above 2,000 feet when over residential areas; to fly over water, railroad tracks and highways whenever possible; and to land before 11 p.m. at East Hampton Airport and before dark at the Southampton helipad. Though in instances of bad weather or heavy air traffic, these policies sometimes cannot be followed, if they are taken as general rules, noise will be diminished.
 Senator Schumer and the residents of eastern Long Island should spare taxpayers the expense and trouble of writing federal regulations, and instead work cooperatively with helicopter operators to reduce noise. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HELICOPTERS (93%); NOISE POLLUTION (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); AIRPORTS (76%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (73%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (65%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2007



609 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Should Most Pet Owners Be Required to Neuter Their Animals?

BYLINE: By VERLYN KLINKENBORG

 BODY:
Recently a controversial bill -- Assembly Bill 1634 -- was withdrawn from a committee of the California State Senate by its sponsor, Assemblyman Lloyd Levine, a Democrat from Van Nuys. The bill would have required the mandatory spaying or neutering of all cats and dogs, applying statewide the kind of regulations that have already been enacted in some cities across the country. 
 In its various drafts, Mr. Levine softened the basic provisions of the bill, changing the mandatory age of compliance from 4 months old to 6 months, allowing even later compliance if it was recommended by a veterinarian, and adding an amendment that would let local agencies issue ''one litter'' permits for the family pet. The bill would also have required breeders to obtain an ''intact animal permit.'' 
 None of these changes satisfied the bill's main opponent, the American Kennel Club. The A.K.C. argues that this bill threatens ''the right to own and breed dogs responsibly.'' In fact, what the bill attacks is the habit of breeding dogs and cats irresponsibly. 
 In California last year, 450,000 cats and dogs were euthanized. The real thrust of the A.K.C.'s argument is economic. Dog fanciers have been reluctant to bring their animals to dog shows in municipalities with mandatory spaying and neutering laws. The trump card politically? Loss of local and state revenue.
 There may be better ways than a statewide law to reduce the number of unwanted pets. But the opponents of mandatory neutering make it sound as though the problem can be solved mainly by teaching owners to spay or neuter their pets voluntarily. That might be true, if we thought more rationally about our pets. But keeping pets isn't about rationality. When it comes to them, Americans are lost in a seemingly endless act of transference. 
 It's apparent in the obesity of our dogs and cats, and in our increasing spending on veterinary care and gourmet pet food and dietary supplements and everything else that helps us treat them as our superconsumerist equals. 
 This transference extends to how we think about the sexuality of our pets, which is, all too often, a projection of our own. 
 Many owners feel a sense of implicit posterity, a kind of family-values virtue -- think a litter of kittens in a warm corner of the kitchen -- in the reproductive potential of their pets. 
 Others feel what, in America, is an even more basic emotion, the conviction that they have an absolute right to do with their property exactly as they like. But too often the result is the same: another cat joins the enormous tribe of feral cats, whose effect on the bird population is catastrophic, and another dog finds itself in jail awaiting execution. 
 For humans, these are deep psychological waters. We expect to find as much innocence in our pets as we do in newborn children, which may be one reason why so few older pets are adopted from shelters. 
 We want the pleasures of neoteny -- the adorable sustained appearance of infancy -- in part because it helps us forget how much responsibility is involved in owning and training a dog. 
 Americans are consumers of pets just as we are consumers of everything else. We expect gratification without responsibility. We see only the easy pleasure, not the work. The rate at which dogs are purchased and euthanized in this country is not a sign of our affection for them. It's a sign of our indifference. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ANIMALS (90%); CATS (90%); PETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); VETERINARY SERVICES (77%); KENNELS & PET BREEDERS (77%); PET FOODS (77%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN KENNEL CLUB (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2007



610 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Bills Scheduled for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury Department's schedule of financing this week includes today's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills tomorrow. 
 At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 4.84 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 4.92 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 4.87 percent.
 The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 WEDNESDAY
 Maryland, $375 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Santa Clara, Calif., $93.4 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
 THURSDAY
 Contra Costa, Calif., Community College District, $73 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 Alachua County, Fla., $84.2 million of industrial development revenue bonds for North Florida Retirement Village. Ziegler Capital Markets.
 Arlington Independent School District, Tex., $117.1 million of unlimited tax refunding bonds for Forward Delivery. JPMorgan.
 Berwyn, Ill., $51 million of debt securities. George K. Baum.
 Chicago Board of Education, $199.7 million of general obligation refunding bonds. Goldman Sachs.
 Children's Trust, $237 million of tobacco settlement asset-backed bonds for Puerto Rico. Bear Stearns.
 Denver International Airport, $217.1 million of debt securities. Goldman Sachs.
 Indiana Bond Bank, $299.3 million of gas prepayment bonds. JPMorgan.
 King County, Wash., $58 million of debt securities. Merrill Lynch.
 Los Angeles Unified School District, $1 billion of debt securities. Goldman Sachs.
 Michigan Higher Education Facilities Authority, $89.7 million of refunding bonds. A. G. Edwards.
 New Hampshire Health and Educational Facilities Authority, $85 million of debt securities for Southern New Hampshire Medical Center. Lehman Brothers.
 New Jersey Economic Development Authority, $423.5 million of debt securities. Morgan Stanley.
 New Mexico Mortgage Finance Authority, $70 million of debt securities. George K. Baum.
 Philadelphia, $200 million of tax and revenue anticipation notes. PNC Capital Markets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (88%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); SCHOOL BOARDS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); TAX LAW (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (69%); ASSET BACKED SECURITIES (52%); AIRPORTS (51%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (65%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%); INDIANA BOND BANK (54%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2007



611 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1365 words

HEADLINE: A War We Just Might Win

BYLINE: By MICHAEL E. O'HANLON and KENNETH M. POLLACK. 
Michael E. O'Hanlon is a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. Kenneth M. Pollack is the director of research at the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at Brookings.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 VIEWED from Iraq, where we just spent eight days meeting with American and Iraqi military and civilian personnel, the political debate in Washington is surreal. The Bush administration has over four years lost essentially all credibility. Yet now the administration's critics, in part as a result, seem unaware of the significant changes taking place. 
 Here is the most important thing Americans need to understand: We are finally getting somewhere in Iraq, at least in military terms. As two analysts who have harshly criticized the Bush administration's miserable handling of Iraq, we were surprised by the gains we saw and the potential to produce not necessarily ''victory'' but a sustainable stability that both we and the Iraqis could live with. 
 After the furnace-like heat, the first thing you notice when you land in Baghdad is the morale of our troops. In previous trips to Iraq we often found American troops angry and frustrated -- many sensed they had the wrong strategy, were using the wrong tactics and were risking their lives in pursuit of an approach that could not work. 
 Today, morale is high. The soldiers and marines told us they feel that they now have a superb commander in Gen. David Petraeus; they are confident in his strategy, they see real results, and they feel now they have the numbers needed to make a real difference. 
 Everywhere, Army and Marine units were focused on securing the Iraqi population, working with Iraqi security units, creating new political and economic arrangements at the local level and providing basic services -- electricity, fuel, clean water and sanitation -- to the people. Yet in each place, operations had been appropriately tailored to the specific needs of the community. As a result, civilian fatality rates are down roughly a third since the surge began -- though they remain very high, underscoring how much more still needs to be done.
 In Ramadi, for example, we talked with an outstanding Marine captain whose company was living in harmony in a complex with a (largely Sunni) Iraqi police company and a (largely Shiite) Iraqi Army unit. He and his men had built an Arab-style living room, where he met with the local Sunni sheiks -- all formerly allies of Al Qaeda and other jihadist groups -- who were now competing to secure his friendship. 
 In Baghdad's Ghazaliya neighborhood, which has seen some of the worst sectarian combat, we walked a street slowly coming back to life with stores and shoppers. The Sunni residents were unhappy with the nearby police checkpoint, where Shiite officers reportedly abused them, but they seemed genuinely happy with the American soldiers and a mostly Kurdish Iraqi Army company patrolling the street. The local Sunni militia even had agreed to confine itself to its compound once the Americans and Iraqi units arrived.
 We traveled to the northern cities of Tal Afar and Mosul. This is an ethnically rich area, with large numbers of Sunni Arabs, Kurds and Turkmens. American troop levels in both cities now number only in the hundreds because the Iraqis have stepped up to the plate. Reliable police officers man the checkpoints in the cities, while Iraqi Army troops cover the countryside. A local mayor told us his greatest fear was an overly rapid American departure from Iraq. All across the country, the dependability of Iraqi security forces over the long term remains a major question mark. 
 But for now, things look much better than before. American advisers told us that many of the corrupt and sectarian Iraqi commanders who once infested the force have been removed. The American high command assesses that more than three-quarters of the Iraqi Army battalion commanders in Baghdad are now reliable partners (at least for as long as American forces remain in Iraq). 
 In addition, far more Iraqi units are well integrated in terms of ethnicity and religion. The Iraqi Army's highly effective Third Infantry Division started out as overwhelmingly Kurdish in 2005. Today, it is 45 percent Shiite, 28 percent Kurdish, and 27 percent Sunni Arab.
 In the past, few Iraqi units could do more than provide a few ''jundis'' (soldiers) to put a thin Iraqi face on largely American operations. Today, in only a few sectors did we find American commanders complaining that their Iraqi formations were useless -- something that was the rule, not the exception, on a previous trip to Iraq in late 2005. 
 The additional American military formations brought in as part of the surge, General Petraeus's determination to hold areas until they are truly secure before redeploying units, and the increasing competence of the Iraqis has had another critical effect: no more whack-a-mole, with insurgents popping back up after the Americans leave. 
 In war, sometimes it's important to pick the right adversary, and in Iraq we seem to have done so. A major factor in the sudden change in American fortunes has been the outpouring of popular animus against Al Qaeda and other Salafist groups, as well as (to a lesser extent) against Moktada al-Sadr's Mahdi Army. 
 These groups have tried to impose Shariah law, brutalized average Iraqis to keep them in line, killed important local leaders and seized young women to marry off to their loyalists. The result has been that in the last six months Iraqis have begun to turn on the extremists and turn to the Americans for security and help. The most important and best-known example of this is in Anbar Province, which in less than six months has gone from the worst part of Iraq to the best (outside the Kurdish areas). Today the Sunni sheiks there are close to crippling Al Qaeda and its Salafist allies. Just a few months ago, American marines were fighting for every yard of Ramadi; last week we strolled down its streets without body armor. 
 Another surprise was how well the coalition's new Embedded Provincial Reconstruction Teams are working. Wherever we found a fully staffed team, we also found local Iraqi leaders and businessmen cooperating with it to revive the local economy and build new political structures. Although much more needs to be done to create jobs, a new emphasis on microloans and small-scale projects was having some success where the previous aid programs often built white elephants. 
 In some places where we have failed to provide the civilian manpower to fill out the reconstruction teams, the surge has still allowed the military to fashion its own advisory groups from battalion, brigade and division staffs. We talked to dozens of military officers who before the war had known little about governance or business but were now ably immersing themselves in projects to provide the average Iraqi with a decent life. 
 Outside Baghdad, one of the biggest factors in the progress so far has been the efforts to decentralize power to the provinces and local governments. But more must be done. For example, the Iraqi National Police, which are controlled by the Interior Ministry, remain mostly a disaster. In response, many towns and neighborhoods are standing up local police forces, which generally prove more effective, less corrupt and less sectarian. The coalition has to force the warlords in Baghdad to allow the creation of neutral security forces beyond their control.
 In the end, the situation in Iraq remains grave. In particular, we still face huge hurdles on the political front. Iraqi politicians of all stripes continue to dawdle and maneuver for position against one another when major steps towards reconciliation -- or at least accommodation -- are needed. This cannot continue indefinitely. Otherwise, once we begin to downsize, important communities may not feel committed to the status quo, and Iraqi security forces may splinter along ethnic and religious lines. 
 How much longer should American troops keep fighting and dying to build a new Iraq while Iraqi leaders fail to do their part? And how much longer can we wear down our forces in this mission? These haunting questions underscore the reality that the surge cannot go on forever. But there is enough good happening on the battlefields of Iraq today that Congress should plan on sustaining the effort at least into 2008. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Keith Negley) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (64%); AL-QAEDA (60%); POLICE FORCES (51%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2007



612 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Spillover

 BODY:
By the end of last week, any lingering hope that the housing downturn would be contained had vanished. As this week begins, signs of contagion seem to be everywhere.
 Unnerved by mounting losses in mortgage- related investments, investors have started to shun tens of billions of dollars in corporate debt offers as well -- and seem likely to go on doing so for months to come. That would stanch the flow of easy money that has fueled the leveraged buyout boom, which would, in turn, expose the extent to which stocks have also come to depend on cheap credit. Stocks took a dive last week because debt-driven buyouts had long boosted the share prices of targeted companies. Stocks have also benefited directly from easy money because public companies have borrowed heavily to buy back their own stock, a ploy to drive up earnings per share. 
 The fallout of housing-related turmoil is also likely to extend beyond financial markets. Among the deals that faltered last week were the $7.4 billion buyout of the Chrysler Group and the $5.6 billion purchase of the Allison Transmission unit of General Motors. Unless investor capital is forthcoming, it could become increasingly difficult for the automakers to avoid bankruptcy. At the same time, the housing slump has also driven down analysts' monthly forecasts for car and truck sales to levels not seen in nearly a decade. 
 The double whammy of weakness in housing and in autos has already hit the chemical maker DuPont. Last Tuesday, the company was the Dow's biggest loser, in part because of lackluster demand for a pigment used in house paint and lower paint sales to automakers. 
 There is also growing evidence that housing woes are curtailing consumer spending, the mainstay of the economy. As home prices fall, home equity borrowing is drying up as a source of disposable income, while wages and salaries are hardly enough to cover many households' consumer and mortgage debt, along with the rising costs of food, energy and other essentials. As a result, consumption ebbs. 
 Officials at the Federal Reserve and the Treasury Department cannot manage these problems on their own. If the Fed wanted to reduce interest rates, for example -- which financial markets are expecting in the wake of last week's plunge -- it would need cooperation from other central banks to ensure that lower American rates would not dangerously weaken the dollar, provoking inflation. 
 Similarly, assurances that the economy will be fine, such as the one delivered on Friday by Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson Jr., ring hollow in the absence of an international reporting framework to monitor the positions taken by globally active hedge funds. Otherwise, there's little reason to believe that government officials have all of the information they need to assess the risks to the financial system and the economy. To date, however, Treasury officials have played down the need for more monitoring. 
 Throughout the Bush years, international cooperation has been neglected. Last week's gyrations are another signal that the need to work with others cannot be safely ignored.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CHEMICALS (89%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); AUTOMAKERS (87%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (87%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (74%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (72%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (70%); PAINTS & COATINGS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); CHEMICALS MFG (64%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (82%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); ALLISON TRANSMISSION HOLDINGS INC (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%); ALSN (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (55%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2007



613 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: Governing Party In Japan Suffers Election Defeat

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI; Yasuko Kamiizumi contributed reporting from Yokohama, and Makiko Inoue from Saitama.

DATELINE: TOKYO, Monday, July 30 

 BODY:
Japan's governing Liberal Democratic Party suffered a crushing defeat Sunday in the election for the upper house of Parliament, but Prime Minister Shinzo Abe vowed that he would not step down.
 The main opposition Democratic Party seized control of the upper house by a landslide, capturing seats not only in cities but also in rural districts that had long been strongholds of the Liberal Democratic Party. The rout was widespread, with household names in the governing party falling one after another before opposition newcomers. It could also stall Tokyo's moves toward a more assertive foreign policy and active military.
 In a devastating rebuke to Mr. Abe, angry voters punished him for his mishandling of bread-and-butter issues and for a series of scandals in a government seemingly in disarray. Past prime ministers have resigned in the face of similar losses, but Mr. Abe, even before all the votes were counted, tried to head off inevitable questions about his leadership.
 ''I have to repent for what I have to repent,'' Mr. Abe, who became prime minister last September, told a Japanese television network hours before final results came in Sunday. 
 But, he said, ''To pursue reforms, to build a new country, I have to fulfill my duties as prime minister from now on as well.''
 The loss, however, will allow the opposition to check Mr. Abe's legislative agenda. Using parliamentary majorities he had inherited from his popular predecessor, Junichiro Koizumi, Mr. Abe rammed through laws to instill patriotism in schools, elevate the status of Japan's military and prepare for a referendum on revising the pacifist Constitution.
 The drubbing was not a rejection of Mr. Abe's nationalist goals but a notice that they came after the economy and competent leadership in importance. Still, the Democratic Party and its leader, Ichiro Ozawa, will now be able to delay and block legislation in Parliament, though the upper house is considered less powerful than the lower house.
 Early Monday, Japanese stocks fell slightly more than one percent, hit in part by fears of domestic policy gridlock after the election results, Agence France-Presse reported.
 While defiantly saying he would not resign, Mr. Abe sounded conciliatory toward the Democrats and said he would work with them. The Democratic Party was founded in 1996 as a fractious opposition, including moderates, former Socialists and conservatives, but this time found its voice by focusing on economic issues, like Japan's income gap.
 The Democratic Party has been critical of Mr. Abe's tendency to revise Japan's wartime past and wary of the strengthening of the Japanese military, initiatives that were led by conservatives in Mr. Abe's party and encouraged by the United States. The opposition opposed the deployment of Japanese troops to Iraq.
 ''Basically, there will be chaos in Parliament, and it will be difficult to pass any defense-related policies,'' said Masayasu Kitagawa, a professor of politics at Waseda University and a former Liberal Democratic lawmaker. ''It won't be possible anymore for the Liberal Democrats to unilaterally ram through legislation related to defense or Iraq as they have done since the Sept. 11 attacks. In addition, even members of the Liberal Democratic Party who share opposing views will now be emboldened to speak out.''
 Of the 242 seats in the upper house, half, or 121, were being contested in this election. The Liberal Democratic Party and its junior coalition partner, the New Komeito Party, had to win a combined 64 seats to maintain a majority in the upper house.
 Mr. Abe's party won only 37 seats and its coalition partner took 9, for a total of 46. The opposition Democratic Party captured 60 seats.
 ''Last time, I voted for the Liberal Democrats under Koizumi,'' Takeshige Iijima, 53, said after voting in Yokohama. ''I can't support the present Liberal Democratic Party. Japan can't go on under Abe's leadership.''
 Given the voters' wrath, members of Mr. Abe's party may start looking for another leader with more popular support as they turn their attention to the next election. Although Mr. Abe, now 52, was relatively young and inexperienced, party members chose him as leader last September on the premise that he, like Mr. Koizumi, would lead them to electoral victories.
 Under Japanese law, the lower house of Parliament, which Mr. Abe's party controls, chooses prime ministers. So a loss in the upper house will not immediately force his resignation. But past prime ministers have taken responsibility for defeats in the upper house by resigning.
 With polls predicting a tide against Mr. Abe's party, the Liberal Democrats had braced themselves for a defeat. Some members of his party -- like Kohei Tamura, a lawmaker seeking a third term in a race that he had seemed assured to win just a few weeks ago -- sought to survive by openly attacking Mr. Abe. Mr. Tamura, who represented the Kochi prefecture in western Japan, lost.
 Mr. Abe's political standing has suffered through a series of scandals in his administration: his gaffe-prone defense minister was forced to resign this month after making comments apparently justifying the United States' use of atomic bombs against Japan during World War II. Mr. Abe's first agricultural minister hanged himself in May, after being accused of corruption.
 Mr. Abe's approval ratings, once higher than 60 percent, plummeted as he appeared out of touch with voters' anxieties about everyday issues, especially government mishandling of national pension records that could jeopardize the benefits paid in what is a rapidly aging society. Instead, Mr. Abe pursued a nationalist agenda, saying until recently that the election's main theme was revising Japan's pacifist Constitution and repeating his trademark, if vague, promise of turning Japan into ''a beautiful country.''
 During the 17-day campaign, Mr. Abe switched gears and focused on economic issues. He took out full-page advertisements in newspapers on Sunday, pledging to turn voters' ''anger and anxieties'' into ''peace of mind and hope.'' But the change in strategy was too late, particularly because the opposition leader, Mr. Ozawa, had centered his campaign on the economy.
 ''Until now I've always voted for the Liberal Democratic Party, but this time I voted for Ozawa,'' said Kazuyoshi Tobita, a restaurant owner in Saitama, a prefecture next to Tokyo. ''There were all sorts of problems. The pension problem was terrible. I mean, what are they thinking? We're all worried whether the money we paid into it is actually there.''
 Mr. Tobita, 71, said of Mr. Abe, ''I'd like him to step down,'' adding, ''Doesn't everybody think that?''
 Mr. Ozawa, a veteran politician famous for his tactical skills, focused on building support in rural areas whose backing the Liberal Democrats had secured for decades with public works projects and agricultural subsidies. Results showed that Mr. Ozawa's party won overwhelmingly in rural Japan, capturing 23 of 29 such districts.
 Mr. Ozawa, a former power broker in the Liberal Democratic Party, left it in 1993 and formed an alliance of opposition parties that toppled the Liberal Democrats for 11 months, the only time the party has been out of power since its founding in 1955.
 Shige Tahara, 60, after voting in Saitama with her husband, said she had always supported the Liberal Democrats, but now believed that a two-party system would make politicians more accountable.
 ''We've come all this way with the Liberal Democratic Party, and things keep getting worse,'' Ms. Tahara said. ''So, if another party took power, I'd like to see what kind of policies it would come up with.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Shinzo Abe sat in his party's headquarters in Tokyo yesterday as the results of the elections were reported. (Photograph by David Guttenfelder/Associated Press)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (92%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); REFERENDUMS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (76%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (75%); ARMED FORCES (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (56%)

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (93%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2007



614 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: China-U.S. Talks Continue, Amid Legal Volleys

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 28 

 BODY:
A year after the United States began a high-level ''strategic economic dialogue'' with China, the word ''dialogue'' hardly seems to apply.
 For a long time, the Bush administration has talked -- and talked and talked -- to China about economic issues. But since the end of last year it has also filed legal challenges over Chinese tariffs on auto parts, export subsidies and counterfeiting of videos and DVDs, and it is weighing possible punitive duties on a range of goods.
 The Chinese charge that the administration's actions are aimed at placating Congress and that they violate the spirit of the discourse they agreed to join at the behest of Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. last summer. They also express concerns that the administration may be using food safety as a weapon with which to beat them up.
 But Mr. Paulson and other administration officials say the recent spate of tough actions, including those on food and product safety, reflect a maturing of economic ties. 
 ''We always knew there were going to be problems, even when we started the S.E.D.,'' said Mr. Paulson, referring to the strategic economic dialogue. ''But the S.E.D. was never about eliminating the problems; it was about how you manage the problems in a professional way to keep this relationship on an even keel.''
 Congress, meanwhile, is pressing ahead with plans to punish China if it does not improve its record on economic issues, especially the value of its currency, which most economists say China is keeping artificially low to make its exports cheaper. The United States trade deficit with China was continues to grow; in May, it was $20 billion, up nearly 17 percent from the first five months of last year. 
 Two groups of senators have gotten into a squabble over which committee has jurisdiction over the legislation, which is opposed by the Bush administration. Indeed, United States officials frankly hope that the lawmakers' dispute will prevent action that would further roil relations with China.
 To keep the dialogue going, Mr. Paulson arrived on Sunday in China for his fourth visit in a year. No other country has focused his attention as much, though as the chief executive of Goldman Sachs before joining the Bush administration, Mr. Paulson took more than 60 trips to China to conduct business.
 The Treasury secretary said that he would discuss food safety, the environment, currency, reform of capital markets and other issues with President Hu Jintao and Vice Premier Wu Yi, his counterpart in the strategic dialogue. 
 China has been hit by unwelcome publicity over charges of tainted pet food, toothpaste and other products. It has started to revamp safety measures and to try to reassure consumers at home and abroad. It also executed its former top food and drug regulator over bribery charges.
 But in a worrisome development for the administration, China appears also to have retaliated against the United States, declaring that it, too, must be vigilant for unsafe American food products. 
 This month, for example, China suspended the import of poultry and pork products from several major American producers, including Tyson Foods, Cargill Meat Solutions and Sanderson Farms, charging that they were tainted with bacteria or residues of drugs and pesticides.
 The Agriculture Department is in the process of inspecting the affected food plants to try to assure the Chinese of their safety.
 To many outside experts, the surge in actions against China reflects the political atmosphere in the United States after the elections last November, when many Democrats based their campaigns on criticism of the administration's support of trade deals and increased trade with China, in particular.
 ''This is an exceedingly familiar development,'' said C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. ''What we're seeing is an administration that has ignored the problem and then suddenly started to get tough to prove to Congress that it is minding the store.''
 Mr. Bergsten said that Mr. Paulson, in conversations with him, ''seems hopeful and halfway optimistic that the Congress won't be able to get its act together and that what he can accomplish will get the administration through the next 18 months.''
 Generally speaking, the administration's tough actions on China have brought both praise and skepticism. The Chinese currency, the yuan, has appreciated 9.4 percent since mid-2005, but Congressional critics say it needs to move upward at a much faster rate.
 Meanwhile, the Commerce Department and the United States trade representative are taking a more confrontational approach. David M. Spooner, an assistant commerce secretary for import administration, said last week that while American exports to China were up 32 percent in 2006 from the previous year, the administration was pushing for better market access and actions to guard against ''dumping'' of Chinese products, when goods are sold in American markets at prices below what it cost to make them.
 The Commerce Department files anti-dumping actions against scores of countries, but 27 percent of its current anti-dumping orders are on exports from China, even though China supplies 15.5 percent of what the United States imports. In addition, in March, the department reversed 23 years of policy and began applying anti-subsidy laws to China.
 As a result, a flood of manufacturers have filed complaints that China has illegally subsidized its exported goods, including tires, paper bags, two kinds of steel pipes and steel nails. Mr. Spooner testified before Congress last week that China had created a ''global over-supply'' in the steel industry and was dumping steel products at below cost.
 Susan C. Schwab, the top American trade envoy, has authorized four cases against China with the World Trade Organization since the end of last year, more than any other country. The cases charge that China has kept tariffs illegally high on imports from the United States of automobile parts and illegally subsidized a myriad of manufactured goods.
 The trade office has also challenged as insufficient a Chinese crackdown on piracy and counterfeited goods and demanded that it give greater access to American copyrighted products that could compete with phony Chinese copies.
 But Karan K. Bhatia, a deputy United States trade representative, said these cases should be seen as a complement to, and not a substitute for, negotiations. He noted that the United States recently convinced China to protect software from being pirated and won other concessions without litigating with the World Trade Organization. Last week, a joint investigation between Chinese and United States law enforcement authorities resulted in the arrest of 25 people in China and the seizure of more than $500 million worth of counterfeit Microsoft and Symantec software that was being made there and distributed worldwide. 
 Mr. Paulson said that recently he discussed the increase in trade disputes in China at the White House with President Bush.
 ''We both agreed that given the issues that come up, some of them very predictable, some not as predictable, we are fortunate to have the dialogue to keep this relationship on an even keel,'' Mr. Paulson said. 
 ''Commerce and U.S.T.R. have a job to do,'' he added, referring to the United States trade representative. ''They need to enforce our laws.'' But Mr. Paulson added that, in his judgment, that is why the strategic economic dialogue ''needs to look beyond dispute resolution and remind both sides that this relationship is important to both our countries, and to the rest of the world.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRODUCT SAFETY (89%); FOOD SAFETY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); CURRENCIES (76%); TRADE DISPUTES (76%); ANIMAL FOODS (76%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%); EXPORT PROMOTION (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (71%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); PET FOODS (68%); COUNTERFEITING (56%); BRIBERY (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (79%); WU YI (58%); HU JINTAO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2007



615 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: The Voters Speak: Baaa!

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
Right now the pundit with perhaps the most outstanding record thinks Hillary Rodham Clinton has the best chance of becoming president, with Bill Richardson enjoying the best shot of becoming vice president.
 That pundit is not a human but rather Intrade, a political betting Web site (www.intrade.com) that has regularly proven more accurate than polls and political experts alike. In the last presidential election, it called the winner accurately in each of the 50 states.
 That's a tribute to what is called ''the wisdom of crowds,'' the notion that the collective judgment of many people is typically more accurate than the judgment of even a very well-informed individual. If you collect a bunch of guesses about, say, the weight of an ox, the average estimate will be eerily accurate. 
 For the record, Intrade's bets at this very early stage give Mrs. Clinton a 27 percent chance of becoming president, followed by Barack Obama and Rudy Guiliani, each at about 20 percent; Fred Thompson, 15 percent; and Mitt Romney, 8 percent.
 Yet while crowds may be good at making predictions, they're often lousy at recognizing their own self-interest. That problem is explored in the best political book this year: ''The Myth of the Rational Voter: Why Democracies Choose Bad Policies.''
 This book, by Bryan Caplan, an economist at George Mason University, does a remarkably thorough job of insulting the American voter. The cover portrays the electorate as a flock of sheep.
 ''Democracies frequently adopt and maintain policies harmful for most people,'' Professor Caplan notes. There are various explanations for this -- the power of special interests, public ignorance of details, and so on. But Mr. Caplan argues that those accounts fall short.
 ''This book develops an alternative story of how democracy fails,'' he writes. ''The central idea is that voters are worse than ignorant; they are, in a word, irrational -- and vote accordingly.''
 Mr. Caplan identifies four areas, all related to economics, of ''systematic error'' -- where voters routinely prefer policies that are contrary to their interests.
 The first is a suspicion of market outcomes and a desire to control markets. The most efficient way to address climate change would be a carbon tax that would build on the market mechanism, but that's barely on the national agenda.
 The second is an anti-foreign bias, a tendency to underestimate the benefits of interactions with foreigners. That leads to counterproductive curbs on trade.
 The third is a neo-Luddite bias against productivity gains that come from downsizing or ''creative destruction.''
 The fourth is a pessimistic bias, a tendency to exaggerate economic problems.
 Mr. Caplan focuses on economics, but there is also some evidence from research in psychology of other systematic errors -- for example, that we habitually exaggerate military risks compared with, say, health risks. That might explain why we're fighting a war in Iraq as opposed to a war on diabetes.
 ''I see neither well-functioning democracies nor democracies hijacked by special interests,'' Mr. Caplan writes. ''Instead, I see democracies that fall short because voters get the foolish policies they ask for.''
 It's true that nobody ever made money betting on the high level of campaign discourse. When George Smathers successfully ran for the Senate, legend has it (he denied it) that he took advantage of his constituents' limited vocabulary by alleging that his opponent was ''a shameless extrovert'' who had ''before his marriage, habitually practiced celibacy.''
 Churchill was right about democracy being the worst form of government, except for all the others that have been tried. Yet we should be able to respond to evidence of democracy's failings with something more than Churchillian resignation. So why not address the problem in our education system, by teaching basic economics and statistics in high schools?
 Students usually now encounter statistics, if at all, in college. But simple statistics could easily be taught along with algebra in high school. Likewise, principles of economics could be taught in social studies classes. 
 This brief exposure wouldn't solve the problems of democracy. But it might help just a bit in reducing systematic errors and biases.
 Then we might emerge with crowds that are not only brilliant at judging the weight of an ox, but also wiser in setting national policy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); PSYCHOLOGY (60%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BILL RICHARDSON (73%); FRED THOMPSON (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2007



616 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1521 words

HEADLINE: In Opposing Tax Plan, Schumer Supports Wall Street Over Party

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ and STEPHEN LABATON; Ron Nixon contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 29 

 BODY:
June was a busy month for Senator Charles E. Schumer. On the phone, at large parties and small gatherings around the nation, he raised more than $1 million from the booming private equity and hedge fund industries for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, of which he is chairman. 
 But there is another way Mr. Schumer has been busy with hedge fund and private equity managers, an important part of his constituency in New York. He has been reassuring them that he will resist an effort led by members of his own party to single out the industry with a plan that would more than double the taxes on the enormous profits reaped by its executives. 
 Mr. Schumer has considerable say on the issue. In addition to being the third-ranking Democrat in the Senate leadership, he is the only Democrat serving on both of the major committees, Banking and Finance, that have jurisdiction in the matter.
 He has long been a pro-business Democrat and a fund-raising machine for the party, as well as a vociferous supporter of Wall Street issues in Washington, much the way Michigan lawmakers defend the auto industry and Iowa politicians work on behalf of corn farmers. 
 But in the case of the tax proposals, the strategy behind Mr. Schumer's efforts is putting to the test another set of principles he is known for. He has regularly portrayed himself as a progressive politician who identifies with the struggles of the middle class and is sharply critical of the selfish ''plutocrats'' who he says control the Republican Party. 
 And he has written a book on the subject, advising policy makers to follow his strategy of deciding positions by identifying with the concerns of people like the Baileys, a fictional middle-class family from Long Island that he uses as a guide. 
 Now, leaders in his party are using similar language to justify their efforts to raise taxes on hedge funds and private equity firms, saying the new revenues will help pay for health and education programs and begin to reduce the impact of the alternative minimum tax on the middle class. The proposals have gained momentum in recent weeks but face formidable political obstacles, primarily in the Senate.
 This month three leading Democratic candidates for president -- Hillary Rodham Clinton, Barack Obama and John Edwards -- endorsed the tax-increase proposals.
 Mr. Schumer said in an interview that he was torn between the need to protect an industry vital to his home state and the need to generate revenues to finance government programs. He said a tax increase on private equity and hedge fund executives could lead to an exodus of jobs and companies from New York, and even from the country. He said the plan, if enacted federally, would also lead to an increase in New York State tax that would further bear down on the industry. He said he worried that the industry was being unfairly singled out.
 ''Unintended consequences often occur when you do major tax work. And you have to be careful,'' Mr. Schumer said in the interview, held in his office just off the Senate floor. 
 But even some of Mr. Schumer's fellow New York Democrats dispute that notion, including Representative Charles B. Rangel, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, which has jurisdiction over tax matters. 
 ''If the businesses are so fragile that taxing them at an equitable rate will cause them to leave the city, I can't picture that,'' Mr. Rangel said. 
 Among the other prominent Democrats from New York to endorse raising taxes on the industry is Robert E. Rubin, the treasury secretary to President Bill Clinton, who has returned to Wall Street as a senior executive at Citigroup.
 Some Republicans have taken a more jaundiced view of Mr. Schumer's intentions. As Senator Charles E. Grassley, the ranking Republican on the Senate Finance Committee, put it in a recent interview with Bloomberg News: ''They contribute most of their money to the Democrat Party, and he wants to protect the income. It's completely contrary to the position he took in the last election, when he was leading the Senate Democratic campaign committee and he talked about the inequity of the tax system.''
 Later, in a statement to The New York Times, Mr. Grassley said, ''I can sure understand that Senator Schumer has to represent his constituents' economic interests, and some of those are financial people on Wall Street.''
 Mr. Grassley is a co-sponsor of legislation filed last month by Senator Max Baucus of Montana, a Democrat and the chairman of the Finance Committee, that would raise to as much as 35 percent the 15 percent corporate tax rate on certain partnerships that go public, like the Blackstone Group and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts.
 In June, senior House Democrats separately proposed raising the tax rate on the investment gains of fund managers -- known as ''carried interest'' -- to the ordinary income tax rate of as much as 35 percent, from the capital gains rate of 15 percent.
 If adopted, the House proposal would more than double the tax rate for most of the compensation received by the partners at private equity and hedge funds and would raise billions of dollars annually in tax revenue.
 Mr. Schumer discounted any suggestion that the campaign contributions from the industry had influenced his thinking, and said he had heard from industry executives who supported some of the proposals to raise their taxes. But interviews with people in and outside the industry indicate that there is overwhelming opposition to the measures and that any support from within the industry ranks is token.
 Joe Schocken, the chairman of Broadmark Capital, an investment banking and private equity firm in Seattle, said most others in the industry did not seem to share his support for a tax increase that would make the tax code fairer and raise revenue for the federal government. ''I realize I am pretty lonely in that point of view,'' he said.
 Mr. Schumer has said he agrees with the general notion that Congress needs to raise more money for vital initiatives, and that the nation's wealthiest should bear much of that burden. ''I am not a populist, but I am a pro-government-type person who believes the government needs some revenues, and the only logical place to get it is from the very top end income-wise,'' he said in the interview.
 But in his conversations with Wall Street executives about the tax proposals, Mr. Schumer said, he has told them that he would oppose a tax increase as long as it did not also apply to other industries, like energy and real estate. 
 Both in and out of Congress, supporters of increasing taxes on hedge funds and private equity firms say Mr. Schumer's proposal is a ''poison pill'' that would generate opposition to the measure from powerful groups -- the energy and real estate industries -- and derail its prospects for passage. 
 In the interview, Mr. Schumer acknowledged that expanding a tax increase to other industries might make it harder to pass. But he said the change also would make the plan fairer and raise more money. 
 ''It's fair for New York,'' he said. ''Almost no one I speak to disagrees with that proposition, that it's right.''
 As a campaign fund-raiser, Mr. Schumer has raised significantly more money than his Republican counterparts, largely because contributors sense that Democrats are headed toward victory in 2008. But the tax issue has significantly helped the Democratic fund-raising efforts.
 From January through June, the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee raised nearly $2 million from executives and employees of private equity and hedge fund firms like the Carlyle Group and the Blackstone Group, according to analyses of campaign finance disclosure reports conducted by the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan group that researches the influence of money in politics, and by The New York Times. The $2 million figure, which includes contributions from relatives of employees and executives, is a low-end estimate because many donors do not list their employers on financial disclosure reports.
 Industry executives say they value the role Mr. Schumer plays. John G. Gaine, the president of the Managed Funds Association, the main hedge fund trade group, described the senator as a ''critical figure in the debate'' and a ''guardian of America's capital market and, more parochially, New York's economic interest.''
 Mr. Schumer says he is working on an alternative tax plan, the details of which he would not disclose. But in the interview he spoke approvingly of raising the tax rate on the wealthiest 1 percent of Americans -- those earning more than $400,000 a year -- to 40 percent from 35 percent. He added that Congress could also once again set the capital gains tax rate at 20 percent, raising it from the current 15 percent.
 He acknowledged the political reality that such an approach would be hard to get through Congress. But he suggested that it would be fairer than imposing all of the additional tax burden on an industry that is largely centered in his state. ''It's consistent and it's right, and it doesn't single out New York,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Charles E. Schumer says tax proposals by his fellow Democrats would unfairly burden the private equity and hedge fund industry. (Photograph by Brendan Smialowski/Bloomberg News)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (77%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC SENATORIAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (58%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2007



617 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: Agribusiness Welfare

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Anti-Reform Farm Bill'' (editorial, July 25): 
 If, as expected, the House passes another subsidy-laden farm bill, it will be a victory for Washington's farm lobby and a loss for taxpayers, consumers and poor African farmers. 
 If House Democrats wanted to reform the farm bill, why didn't they do that? The farm lobby most likely convinced them that subsidy programs ensure price stability for program commodities. As an agricultural economist in Washington, I heard this ridiculous argument every time a farm bill came up for passage. 
 I have faith in the marketplace to stabilize food prices. If the government were ever to get out of farming, consumers would enjoy lower food prices. 
 Large agribusiness corporations provide our food supply, and they don't need government subsidies to do it. These are highly sophisticated companies with sophisticated managers who understand how to manage and how to profit from crop risk. It is time for corporate agribusiness welfare to come to an end. 
 James Patterson San Francisco, July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD PRICES (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); LOBBYING (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2007



618 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 30, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: The Week Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC INDICATORS Investors will be looking for signs of where the financial and credit markets are headed. A major signal will come from the employment figures for July (Friday). 
 Other reports will include personal income and spending for June, the Chicago purchasing managers index for July, the Conference Board consumer confidence index for July and June construction spending (Tuesday); the Institute for Supply Management manufacturing index for July (Wednesday); factory orders for June (Thursday); and the Institute for Supply Management service index for July (Friday).
 COMPANY REPORTS Earnings season starts to ease, but there are still some big names scheduled to report, including ABN Amro, Archer Daniels Midland, Humana, Loews, Sun Microsystems, Tyson Foods, Verizon and Wm. Wrigley (Monday); Alcatel-Lucent, Avon Products, CBS, General Motors, IAC/InterActiveCorp, ImClone, Liz Claiborne, MetLife and Sirius Satellite Radio (Tuesday); Arcelor Mittal, BASF, CA, Cigna, Deutsche Bank, Electronic Arts, Electronic Data Systems, Jones Apparel, Kraft Foods, Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, MasterCard, Qwest Communications, Starbucks, Time Warner and Walt Disney (Wednesday); Clorox, Credit Suisse, Eastman Kodak, MGM Mirage, Nokia, Starwood Hotels, Unilever and Viacom (Thursday); and Procter & Gamble and Toyota (Friday). 
 ET CETERA An advisory committee of the Food and Drug Administration will discuss heart risks linked to GlaxoSmithKline's diabetes drug Avandia (Monday).
 The former chief executive of Aspen Technology, David L. McQuillin, is expected to be sentenced in federal court in Manhattan on conspiracy and securities fraud charges (Monday).
 A federal judge in Brooklyn will hear arguments in a motion to dismiss the last criminal charge in the ''squawk box'' case involving former executives of the day-trading firm A. B. Watley and former Merrill Lynch brokers (Tuesday). 
 Automakers will report their sales for July (Wednesday).

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CALENDARS (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (79%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (73%); CONSPIRACY (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); LITIGATION (69%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (69%); SATELLITE RADIO (68%); AUTOMAKERS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (64%); SENTENCING (64%); JUDGES (64%); DIABETES (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (70%); ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (70%); IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (69%); ARCELORMITTAL SA (69%); MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (68%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (56%); CIGNA CORP (56%); HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (56%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (56%); SIRIUS XM RADIO INC (56%); AVON PRODUCTS INC (56%); ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (56%); TYSON FOODS INC (56%); WALT DISNEY CO (55%); MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA INC (55%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%); VIACOM INC (55%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (55%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (55%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (55%); CENTURYLINK INC (55%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (55%); ASPEN TECHNOLOGY INC (54%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%)

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (70%); ALU (NYSE) (70%); ALU (BIT) (70%); ADM (NYSE) (70%); IACI (NASDAQ) (69%); MTS (MCE) (69%); MT (PAR) (69%); MT (NYSE) (69%); MT (AMS) (69%); MGM (NYSE) (68%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (56%); CI (NYSE) (56%); VZC (LSE) (56%); VZ (NYSE) (56%); ABO (ASX) (56%); SIRI (NASDAQ) (56%); AVP (NYSE) (56%); EA (NASDAQ) (56%); TSN (NYSE) (56%); DIS (NYSE) (55%); MSO (NYSE) (55%); CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%); VIA (NASDAQ) (55%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (55%); PGP (PAR) (55%); PG (NYSE) (55%); CTL (NYSE) (55%); UNIA (AMS) (55%); UNA (BIT) (55%); UNA (AMS) (55%); UN (NYSE) (55%); ULVR (LSE) (55%); UL (NYSE) (55%); AZPN (NASDAQ) (54%); GSK (NYSE) (54%); GSK (LSE) (54%); BIOC (EGX) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (70%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (70%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (70%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (70%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (70%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (70%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (70%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (70%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (69%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (69%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (69%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (69%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (69%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (68%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (68%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (56%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (56%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (56%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (56%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (56%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (56%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (56%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (56%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (55%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (55%); NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS423220 HOME FURNISHING MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (55%); NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (55%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (55%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (55%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (55%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2007



619 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: LETTERS The Costs and Benefits of Free Trade

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Congratulations for ''The Case for Trade'' (editorial, July 27). We need to stop blaming the Chinese for problems that are essentially home-grown and get on with the business of ensuring that American workers and companies can compete in a globalized world market.
One key element of that process will be an expanded program of assistance, in the form of retraining, for workers who lose their jobs for whatever reason. 
 Congress also needs to be serious about reducing our absurd farm subsidy programs. 
 There are enormous benefits to be gained from approval of the pending free trade agreements with Peru, Panama, Colombia and South Korea and from conclusion of the Doha round. This is where the administration and Congress should direct their attention.
 Thomas Niles Scarsdale, N.Y., July 28, 2007 The writer is a vice chairman of the United States Council for International Business.
 To the Editor:
 How can American manufacturing workers compete with Chinese production workers who earn $1 an hour? How can domestic American companies compete with Chinese companies that deny workers' rights, pillage the environment, steal intellectual property and engage in patent infringement and industrial spying? 
 How does the United States benefit from a trade deficit with China that was $20 billion in May and is growing rapidly?
 The United States should withdraw from the World Trade Organization and reject its power to overrule American environmental and worker protection laws. We should negotiate bilateral trade agreements with countries that share American values and truly engage in fair trade. 
 William J. Salman Santa Fe, N.M., July 27, 2007
 To the Editor:
 International trade affects not just those who lose their jobs but, indirectly, everyone with a similar skill set. When a textile mill shuts down in South Carolina, its displaced workers look for work at the mall. The extra competition for low-skill service-sector jobs drives down wages in those occupations as well.
 Because the impact of trade is broadly felt, attempts to compensate the losers from trade must be equally broad. A more progressive income tax meets this requirement, but policies that target only those directly affected by trade do not. 
 Lewis Davis Schenectady N.Y., July 27, 2007 The writer is an assistant professor of economics at Union College.
 To the Editor:
 There are several important reasons why many Americans hesitate to support free trade pacts. 
 These pacts need enforceable safeguards to provide decent wages and protect the health and safety of factory workers in developing countries that export goods to us. 
 They must include measures to protect the local environment around factories. And they must provide for an end to the huge agricultural subsidies to our farmers that only encourage overproduction. Our export of cheap grains to poor countries forces small farmers out of business because they can't compete. This disrupts rural societies and drives people into already overcrowded cities.
 Past free trade pacts only paid lip service to these needed provisions. 
 As long as we continue to read about near slave-labor conditions in factories that make our goods, or about toxic pollutants threatening the lives of residents living near these factories, free trade pacts will continue to be opposed by many of us. 
 Alan Lillyquist Ghent, N.Y., July 27, 2007
 To the Editor:
 Can you blame a lot of us for suspecting that the $500 billion some economists say would be added to the ''national income'' if remaining trade barriers went down would most likely be added to the incomes of a very small number of already very rich people? 
 Jim Houghton Encino, Calif., July 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter; Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (93%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); WRITERS (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (75%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (75%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (71%); PATENTS (71%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (71%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (71%); APPROVALS (70%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); TEXTILE MILLS (67%); FABRIC MILLS (67%); TEXTILE MFG (67%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (67%); INCOME TAX (62%); AGRICULTURE (60%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (51%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES COUNCIL FOR INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS (56%); US COUNCIL FOR INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (92%); PERU (79%); PANAMA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2008



620 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 130 words

HEADLINE: Britain: Hsbc Posts 25% Increase In Earnings

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
HSBC Holdings, the European bank, posted a 25 percent increase in first-half earnings, shrugging off concerns about a rise in bad debts as it forecast strong global economic growth. HSBC said that net profit increased to $10.9 billion from $8.73 billion a year earlier on strong revenue growth across Asia and in corporate and investment banking, despite a sharp rise in bad debts in the United States at its HSBC Finance mortgage lending business. Net interest income rose to $18.23 billion from $16.73 billion. HSBC said that its total loan impairment charges and credit risk provisions rose to $6.34 billion in the first half from $3.89 billion a year earlier, with more bankruptcies in Britain and the United States and higher Latin American lending contributing to the increase. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MERCHANT BANKING (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%)

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%); HSBC FINANCE CORP (57%)

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ASIA (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2007



621 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 80 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New Jersey Trenton: Ex-Commerce Official Convicted

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
A former State Commerce Department official was convicted yesterday in State Superior Court of using staff members to run her private law practice, state prosecutors said. The official, Lesly Devereaux, former chief of staff for the Commerce, Economic Growth and Tourism Commission, was found guilty of two counts of misusing public funds. The jury deadlocked on 12 counts in the 16-count indictment and acquitted her of conspiracy and conducting an unlawful business transaction. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief; Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); VERDICTS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INDICTMENTS (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); JURY TRIALS (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); ACQUITTAL (85%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2008



622 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Credit Card Buyer Beware

 BODY:
The federal agencies that are supposed to regulate the banking and credit card industries have failed utterly to keep pace with deceptive and unfair practices that have become shamefully standard in the business. As a consequence many hard-working Americans who pay their bills are mired in debt -- and in danger of losing whatever savings they have, and perhaps their homes. Congress, which sat on its hands while the problem got worse and worse, needs to rein in this sometimes predatory industry. 
 The scope of the problem was laid out in Congressional hearings this spring held by Senator Carl Levin, the Democrat from Michigan. According to testimony, one witness exceeded his charge card's $3,000 limit by $200 -- triggering what eventually amounted to $7,500 in penalties and interest. After paying an average of $1,000 a year for six years, the man still owed $4,400. 
 That experience has become all too common as the credit card industry has stealthily adopted methods designed to maximize burdensome penalties and fees, while ratcheting up interest rates as high as 30 percent. Companies bombard unwary consumers with teaser packages that promise very low interest rates to start, while reserving for themselves the right to raise rates whenever they choose. The details are buried in deliberately arcane contracts that run 30 pages long and that even lawyers have trouble understanding.
 Congressional investigations and studies by consumer advocates have exposed other unsavory practices. Some card companies apply penalty rates retroactively -- to purchases that were made before the penalty was incurred or in some cases to debts that were even paid off. As one Congressional witness pointed out, the credit card industry is the only one allowed to increase the price of a product after it has been sold. 
 Under a provision known as ''universal default,'' a cardholder who pays a credit card company faithfully can still be hit with a high penalty interest rate for missing payments with another creditor. In another despicable tactic known as ''double cycle billing,'' a cardholder who pays $450 of a $500 balance is charged interest on the entire amount as opposed to the unpaid balance. 
 State usury laws would once have precluded many of these practices, but those have been preempted by federal regulations that are increasingly designed to make banks and credit card companies happy -- rather than protect consumers. 
 A bill introduced by Senator Levin would limit ''penalty'' interest rates to an additional 7 percent above the previous rate. It would also prohibit retroactive penalties and double cycle billing, and it would limit the amount of fees companies could charge customers who exceed their credit limit. 
 Passing the Levin bill would be a good start. But Congress needs a comprehensive approach to this problem. Lawmakers need to ban deceptive card offers outright, strengthen federal oversight and toughen truth-in-lending laws. 
 Meanwhile, American consumers should think long and hard before they accept credit card offers that are too good to be true. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (91%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); WITNESSES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); US TRUTH IN LENDING ACT (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); TESTIMONY (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); LAWYERS (71%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (66%)

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2007



623 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Good Guy Is Forgotten In Bad Week for Sports

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON. 
E-mail: hjaraton@nytimes.com

 BODY:
In a little-noticed variation on a widely examined theme, a well-known sports figure stalked the authorities last week as opposed to the other way around. This time, a government played defense while the voice of the people was heard through the mouth of the athlete.
 More than 42,000 signatures were delivered to the Chinese Embassy in Washington on behalf of an organization called the Save Darfur Coalition. He went to the front door. Put his finger to the bell. 
 ''Yes?'' a voice from the other side said.
 ''My name is Joey Cheek,'' he said. ''I am on the U.S. Olympic team. And I am here to deliver petitions that we have collected over the last week imploring China to continue to act strongly to protect the civilians in Darfur.''
 That was last Thursday, when Michael Vick was in a Virginia courtroom, beginning his most vital scramble, trying to elude stomach-churning charges brought by federal prosecutors of sponsoring a dogfighting operation that a co-defendant said yesterday was mostly financed by Vick. 
 Cheek, the American speed skater who won the gold medal in the 500 meters at the 2006 Winter Games in Turin, Italy, was holding his ground that day with a message -- stop the slaughter in Sudan -- to the host country of next summer's Olympics in Beijing.
 ''Only you can come in,'' the embassy gatekeeper told Cheek, instructing the coalition members with him, along with a Darfuri refugee named Daoud Hari, to retreat.
 Clutching thick binders with signatures collected around the United States, Cheek waited as 5 minutes became 10, 10 became 20, 20 became 30. Just leave them, one of his colleagues suggested.
 Not yet, Cheek said, and after more than a half-hour, the front door opened. Into the lobby, to a brief audience with embassy officials, he went to make his drop and propose leading a group of American and Chinese athletes on a trip to Darfur, the violence-racked region of Sudan, a country with which China wields considerable economic clout. 
 ''They didn't dismiss it,'' Cheek said in a telephone interview. ''They seemed interested.''
 Granted, the timing of his embassy mission wasn't good, if attention was the desired goal -- not in a week when professional sport on so many levels was reeking of malfeasance, from one side of the Atlantic to the other. But shame on us if we can't take a few moments to applaud Cheek's patience, conviction and cause.
 Today, in this space, the now hounded quarterback Vick, the home run antihero Barry Bonds, the suspected rogue N.B.A. ref, the chemically aided cyclists and even poor, misunderstood Michael Strahan must wait while Cheek explains why mixing politics and sport -- specifically the international version -- does not violate any sacred, time-honored code.
 ''The Chinese say, 'Don't politicize the Olympics,' but that's ridiculous,'' Cheek said. ''The only reason they wanted it was political, to prove they are a great power on the world stage.''
 For the record, he does not support calls to boycott Beijing, only using the Games as leverage to move the Chinese government on Darfur. If his two Olympic experiences have taught him anything, it is that the Games -- rampant commercialism and scandals notwithstanding -- are as good a stage as any ''to fight for an ideal that you believe in.''
 More than his medals, Cheek is no doubt remembered for donating his 2006 Olympic prize money to a sport and humanitarian organization championed by Johann Olav Koss, the Norwegian speed-skating legend. For the standard post-Games period, Cheek was the face on the Wheaties box, America's feel-good Olympian. He became a regular on the corporate speaking circuit, admittedly cashing in to fund a Princeton education he deferred for one year.
 Retired from skating, Cheek resumed giving back, formed his own charitable campaign -- called it ''Where Will We Be?'' -- to galvanize Olympians and raise money to fund worthy causes. 
 He began by stepping onto the Darfur soapbox, but the more he learned about displacement and genocide, the more he couldn't get off it. He spoke at a Washington rally with Barack Obama and Hollywood activists, targeting, in part, Bush Administration policy. He testified before Congress. He traveled to China, Egypt and the troubled area in Chad near its border with Sudan.
 He would like to work with Ira Newble, the journeyman basketball player who last spring collected signatures from his Cleveland Cavaliers teammates on a letter to China protesting Darfur -- absent, most notably, was the young superstar, LeBron James.
 ''Most Olympians are nowhere near that level of fame,'' Cheek said. ''But if it's a choice between standing up for something I believe in or not because I'm worried about celebrity or money, it's a no-brainer.''
 If only that were the rule, not the exception, a breath of fresh air in the dog days of an uncommonly depressing sports summer. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joey Cheek won two medals in speed skating at the 2006 Winter Olympics and decided to give his bonus money to charity. (Photograph by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. D3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); STALKING (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LOBBYING (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (74%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); PETITIONS (71%); MISCONDUCT (69%); CYCLING (69%); ICE SKATING (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); TURIN, ITALY (78%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (93%); SUDAN (93%); ITALY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2007



624 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Aid Organization Says Iraqis and Foreign Donors Must Ease a Growing Humanitarian Crisis

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

DATELINE: AMMAN, Jordan, July 30 

 BODY:
Poverty, hunger and public health continue to worsen in Iraq, according to a report released Monday by Oxfam International, which says that more aid is needed from abroad and calls on the Iraqi government to decentralize the distribution of food and medical supplies. 
 The report, based on a compendium of research from the United Nations, the Iraqi government and nonprofit organizations Oxfam works with or finances, offers little original data. But it provides one of the most comprehensive pictures to date of the human crisis within Iraq and what it describes as a slow-motion response from Iraq's government, the United States, the United Nations and the European Union. 
 The report states that roughly four million Iraqis, many of them children, are in dire need of food aid; that 70 percent of the country lacks access to adequate water supplies, up from 50 percent in 2003; and that 90 percent of the country's hospitals lack basic medical and surgical supplies. 
 One survey cited in the report, completed in May by the Iraqi Ministry of Planning, found that 43 percent of Iraqis live in ''absolute poverty,'' earning less than $1 a day. 
 Unemployment and hunger are particularly acute among the estimated two million people displaced internally from their homes by violence, many of whom are jobless, homeless and largely left on their own. 
 ''The government of Iraq, international donors and the United Nations system have been focused on reconstruction, development and building political institutions, and have overlooked the harsh daily struggle for survival now faced by many,'' the report says. 
 The solutions proposed by Oxfam, an international aid organization that opposed the 2003 American invasion and helps groups in Iraq from an office in Amman, focus on both Iraqi policy and international financing. 
 The report -- which also includes contributions from the NGO Coordination Committee in Iraq, a network of Iraqi and international aid agencies -- calls on Iraq to expand and decentralize its distribution of food rations and emergency cash payments to widows. NGO refers to nongovernmental organizations. 
 Medical and other aid supplies kept in seven Baghdad warehouses should be distributed to the provinces and managed by local authorities rather than the inefficient central government, the report said. 
 Citing the policies of aid organizations that will not accept money from countries involved in Iraq's conflict, Oxfam also called on countries without troops in Iraq to send more money for aid. According to the report, cuts in financing and the challenge of providing assistance in an insecure environment have limited what both the United Nations and its partners can do for Iraqis. The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, for example, used to work with 20 partners in Iraq; it now has only 11, the report says. 
 Oxfam's analysis offers no suggestions on how to root out the corruption that has hobbled the Iraqi government and international aid efforts in the past, nor does it address the links between criminal militias and Iraqi government agencies, like the Ministry of Health, which is run by the political party loyal to the Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr. 
 It also presents its statistics as hard facts, without acknowledging the wide margin of error that typically accompanies social research in a war zone. Rather, the report focuses almost exclusively on the need for more money and better distributed aid. 
 Joost Hiltermann, deputy program director for the Middle East and North Africa at the International Crisis Group, an organization of experts on conflicts, said that at this point in Iraq, the focus is justified. Corruption, he said, is beyond the purview of groups like Oxfam and the lack of organized aid needs to be immediately addressed.
 ''The priority,'' he said, ''is to get aid going regardless of such problems.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (92%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (79%); IRAQ WAR (78%); HOSPITALS (77%); DISPLACED PERSONS (76%); CHILDREN (74%); REFUGEES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%)

ORGANIZATION: OXFAM INTERNATIONAL (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMMAN, JORDAN (68%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); JORDAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2007



625 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; PERSONAL HEALTH; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: In Matters of the Heart, Prevention Is Key

BYLINE: By JANE E. BRODY

 BODY:
If you were a cardiologist or an optimist, you might say the glass was half-full. But if you were an epidemiologist or pessimist, you would be more inclined to say the glass was half-empty.
 The glass, in this case, is the death rate from coronary heart disease in the United States, which declined sharply in the last two decades of the 20th century. From 1980 through 2000, the age-adjusted death rate for coronary heart disease fell to 266.8 deaths per 100,000 men from 542.9 deaths, and to 134.4 deaths per 100,000 women from 263.3.
 This change, which meant 341,745 fewer coronary deaths in 2000 than would otherwise have occurred (along with a continued decline in such deaths in the years since), catapulted cancer last year into the lead position as a killer of Americans under age 85, even though cancer death rates are also declining.
 Nonetheless, the pessimists would say, far more people are still dying of heart disease than should be, often before reaching age 30, even though the tools are at hand to virtually eliminate this scourge. And there are now strong indications that as Americans continue to get fatter and fatter, the decline in heart disease deaths will soon grind to a halt and may even reverse itself. 
 Furthermore, the pessimists note, the direct and indirect costs of coronary heart disease are still breaking the health care bank, at $142.5 billion last year and rising. 
 Why the Death Rate Fell
 In the June 7 issue of The New England Journal of Medicine, a team led by public health specialists from the national Centers for Disease Control and Preventionanalyzed the changes that have occurred in American medicine and habits to account for the impressive drop in deaths from coronary heart disease (the most common kind of heart disease, which results from blocked blood vessels feeding the heart). 
 About 47 percent of the decrease in coronary deaths among Americans aged 25 to 84, the researchers concluded, could be attributed to ''a revolution in the treatments for established coronary heart disease'': the use of medical or surgical therapies that help prevent or postpone deaths from heart disease in patients already afflicted. These are therapies administered to patients who have suffered and survived a heart attack, people with chest pains indicative of blocked coronary arteries and patients with heart failure.
 The remedies range from cheap (bystander CPR to forestall death from a heart attack, for example, and daily aspirin to prevent clots that can precipitate an attack) to costly and sometimes hazardous (angioplasty, stents and coronary bypass surgery to open or circumvent blocked arteries). Other therapies include clot-dissolving drugs, drugs that lower blood pressure and cholesterol levels and rehabilitation programs to improve cardiac function.
 All told, the researchers estimated, nearly 160,000 of the coronary deaths that were prevented or postponed in 2000 ''were attributable to medical therapies'' administered to patients already known to have had heart disease.
 While patients and their loved ones are no doubt extremely grateful for the ability of modern medicine to keep people alive and often well when their hearts are on the verge of giving out, the therapeutic approach to curbing the coronary death rate is like shutting the barn door after the horse has escaped. A more economical, not to mention less terrifying, approach is to prevent the development of this life-threatening and costly disease.
 According to the new analysis, about 44 percent of the decline in coronary mortality during the 20 years studied was due to improvements in risk factors for heart disease: reduced cholesterol levels, better control of high blood pressure, a decline in smoking and a small rise in physical activity.
 These changes have occurred largely through the seriously underfinanced efforts of public health advocates who for decades have championed the cause of primary prevention of heart disease. They started in the early 1960s with campaigns against smoking, continued with efforts to curb saturated fats, cholesterol and salt in the American diet and moved on to still-lagging efforts to get more Americans to be physically active.
 The pharmaceutical industry, which spends billions of dollars to develop and test new drugs and convince doctors to prescribe them for their patients, has also contributed to better control of risk factors, often in people not yet known to have heart disease. There is now a plethora of risk-reducing medications available both to healthy people and to those already afflicted, including old-school but still front-line diuretics to lower blood pressure and relatively new (and very effective) statins to lower dangerously high cholesterol levels. 
 There are also many aids sold over the counter and by prescription, as well as therapies like hypnosis, to help people quit smoking. In addition, a growing public intolerance for tobacco smoke, increasing limits on where people can smoke and the rising cost of cigarettes have prompted many people to quit smoking or at least cut down on how much they smoke.
 What Next?
 But there are two countertrends that are cause for serious concern about the future of heart disease in this country: the overall increase in weight and the accompanying increase in the prevalence of diabetes. The researchers calculated that ''increases in the body-mass index accounted over all for about 26,000 additional deaths from coronary heart disease in 2000, and increases in the prevalence of diabetes for about 33,500 additional deaths.''
 So far, there is no indication of a reversal of these trends. But unless the weight issue is brought under control, two other risk factors for heart disease will also increase: serum cholesterol levels will rise, and so will blood pressure. And along with Type 2 diabetes, these increases can change the direction of coronary mortality. 
 No one would argue that it's better to shut the barn door while the horse is still inside. So let's talk about primary prevention.
 We're doing a lot better with controlling elevated cholesterol through diet and drugs, and the recent widespread elimination of trans fats from processed foods will help even more. 
 We've done a lot, but could still do a lot more, to control hypertension by making sure not only that everyone with high blood pressure gets a diagnosis and treatment, but that the treatment effectively controls blood pressure and is maintained indefinitely.
 Smoking, a major cause of heart attacks and sudden cardiac death, declined among adults by 50 percent from 1965 to 2005. But 45 million American adults and 20 percent of teenagers still smoke, and more effort is needed to eliminate this noxious behavior and to keep youngsters from taking it up.
 Most important, perhaps, is to nip in the bud the current rise in weight and diabetes. These increases in coronary risk are environmental, not genetic, and can only be resolved by changing how and what people eat and how much they exercise. 
 So, my fellow Americans, I urge you to tighten your lips to culinary temptation and instead expand your lungs and blood vessels by exercising more and more often. Your heart, which will become a more efficient and effective pump, will thank you for it.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Stuart Bradford) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (92%); HEART DISEASE (91%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (90%); CARDIOLOGY (89%); CANCER (89%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (88%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); CHOLESTEROL (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); ANTICOAGULANTS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2007



626 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1646 words

HEADLINE: Kenyan Farmers' Fate Caught Up in U.S. Aid Rules That Benefit Agribusiness

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

DATELINE: LOKWII, Kenya 

 BODY:
As the United States Congress debates an omnibus farm bill, it is considering a small change that advocates say could make a big difference to the world's hungriest people: allowing the federal government to buy some food in Africa to feed the famished, rather than shipping it all overseas from America. 
 The Bush administration, with odd-bedfellows support from liberal Democrats, has called for allowing the purchase of some food in poor countries to quicken responses to emergencies. But even so, its proposal would not have prevented the paradoxical deepening of hunger here during a long-term project to combat hunger in the harsh, arid reaches of northwestern Kenya.
 Families participating in an American-financed irrigation project from 2002 to 2006 were promised payment in corn for clearing the land and digging canals. The Kenyan government objected to the importation of American corn because the country was awash in a bumper harvest that had caused corn prices to plunge. 
 The result: American officials, prohibited by law from buying the corn locally, could not deliver it. As the impoverished families waited in vain for sustenance from the American heartland, malnutrition among the youngest children worsened and five people died of hunger-related causes. 
 Ikai Moru, 19, still recalls the hunger that gnawed at her and her mother as they chopped down thorny acacia trees on their tiny plot, hoping one day to reap a bountiful harvest from the parched earth. She watched her mother grow thinner and paler, and finally sicken and die. 
 ''My mother was a very hard worker,'' Ms. Moru offered in a brief epitaph.
 Through sheer grit, the 2,000 families finished the irrigation system last year and are successfully farming. But long-term projects to help Africa's rural poor feed themselves are chronically underfinanced, charities say. 
 Across Africa, the United States is more likely to give people a fish -- caught in America -- that feeds them for a day than to teach them to fish for themselves. Since last year, for example, the United States has donated $136 million worth of American food to feed the hungry in Kenya, but spent $36 million on agricultural projects to help Kenyan farmers grow and earn more. 
 And even that small budget for long-term projects in Kenya is expected to dwindle. The United States Agency for International Development, known as Usaid, in seeking to concentrate scarce resources, has dropped Kenya from the list of countries eligible for undertakings like the irrigation project here.
 Such efforts are dwarfed by the epic scale of the need. Viewed from a prop plane buzzing like a mosquito overhead, the irrigated land here shimmers as a tiny oasis in a vast, dun-colored landscape.
 With the guidance of the Christian charity World Vision, which implemented the project, the families hacked an irrigation system from the barren landscape with machetes, hoes and shovels, clearing 1,000 acres and digging 99 miles of canals along the Kerio River. 
 Ms. Moru will soon be feeding her four younger brothers and sisters with an abundance of sorghum and corn harvested from their half-acre farm, fulfilling her mother's dream.
 The success is noteworthy, but the families' sacrifices also illustrate the risks of an American food aid system that is designed to benefit domestic agribusiness and shipping interests and enmeshed in an intricate framework of farm subsidies.
 Members of Congress who favor the current system say the support of influential commercial groups is needed to sustain political support for food aid. They warn that ill-timed purchases of food in Africa in times of scarcity could send food prices higher, harming poor consumers.
 But critics in Congress contend that the United States could feed far more people more quickly if it could buy surplus food in Africa. It might also help boost the incomes of African farmers, by providing a market for their crops, they say.
 The Bush administration is now trying to change the law so that up to $300 million of food can be bought in poor countries during emergencies. 
 The Senate Agriculture Committee chairman, Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, where growers and landowners got $1.58 billion in corn subsidies in 2005, is advocating a $25 million pilot program to test buying food in poor countries for both emergency and long-term aid. 
 Even that modest proposal is meeting stiff resistance from farm state legislators. The House Agriculture Committee's version of the farm bill includes no such pilot. The committee chairman, Collin C. Peterson, Democrat of Minnesota, said of his members,' ''They're still of the mode that this should be American products we're using our tax dollars to provide them.'' 
 Mr. Peterson's district got $367 million in corn subsidies in 2005, according to government data analyzed by the Environmental Working Group, a nonprofit research organization.
 Even without the American corn that was supposed to keep them going, the families here were determined to grasp their once-in-a-lifetime chance at fertile plots of farmland. Ms. Moru, 14 years old when construction began, recalled how she and her widowed mother had taken on the acacia trees together. They lopped off branches barbed with thorns, burned the trunks and uprooted the stumps.
 ''It was the heaviest work we had ever done, but we had no choice,'' Ms. Moru said. ''It was the only way to get land to plow.''
 Their success was all the more extraordinary given this desiccated region's history as a graveyard for well-intended foreign aid efforts to help the Turkana tribe, mostly nomadic herders, escape punishing cycles of drought, hunger and death. 
 The participants themselves credit a man who gave them fortitude when they faltered: Daniel Mwebi, a Kenyan engineer who managed the project here for World Vision.
 From 1992 to 2004, he lived for much of each year in this remote place, far from his wife and children. He said he had been determined to avoid the mistakes of earlier aid projects that relied on heavy earth-moving equipment and diesel-run pumps that required costly fuel, expertise and maintenance. 
 So he designed a very basic system and trained the Turkana in the masonry, carpentry and welding skills they needed to keep it running. The earthen irrigation systems -- built in two United States-financed projects -- are powered only by gravity and the sweat of the local people.
 What Mr. Mwebi could not have anticipated, however, was how the workings of the American food aid system would deeply complicate that plan, which Usaid financed for $4 million over five years.
 When it came to tiding the families over with American corn, the Kenyan government objected, said Simon Nyabwengi, then World Vision's Nairobi-based manager of the Turkana project. ''They offered a very reasonable option,'' he said. ''They said we appreciate the project, it's a good project, but we don't want you to bring in maize.''
 William Hammink, who heads the office of Food for Peace at Usaid, confirmed that the corn was never delivered because the United States was prohibited from buying it in Kenya or paying duties on imports. 
 ''We kept waiting,'' said Aemun Imong, a 32-year-old mother of four. ''They told us, 'Food is coming, food is coming.' But we saw it wasn't coming.'' 
 The lack of food was particularly dire for children under age 5. World Vision surveys documented that the proportion of them stunted by malnutrition rose to about a third in 2004, from about a fifth when construction began in 2002. 
 The five people who died were Ms. Moru's mother, another woman and three children, according to Mr. Lokolonyoi, who said he reported the deaths to district authorities. 
 Mr. Hammink of Usaid said he did not know what caused the worsening of malnutrition, though he said that provision of corn to the families would most likely have lessened it.
 The United NationsWorld Food Program, with contributions from other nations, was able to obtain 75 percent more corn to feed Africa's hungry from 2001 to 2005 by purchasing it in Kenya, Zambia and Uganda, rather than shipping it from the United States, Michigan State researchers found. 
 As the building stretched over years, a portion of the promised beans and vegetable oil from the United States was delivered in 2004, Mr. Mwebi said. Some corn bought in Kenya with private money also came. But it was too late to avert the hunger of the early years. 
 By 2005, the families each had a half-acre of cleared land to farm. They grew enough food to donate almost 14,000 pounds for the needy still around them, said Hosea Lotir, who heads the local water users' association.
 As they settled down to farm instead of wandering with their animals, the number of children in the Lokwii primary school more than doubled, to 857 -- and would have doubled again if it had not closed its admissions, school officials said.
 The families here continue to nurture their verdant green spots of progress. Nearby villages are clamoring for irrigation projects of their own, but American officials say they do not expect to have the money to finance them. 
 As the sun neared its zenith one recent morning, the main canal in Morulem -- the site of the first irrigation project -- was a cauldron of flailing hoes and shovels. Women glistening with sweat gouged out tons of silt to clear a clogged channel.
 On a later shift, it was the men's turn, and women squatting on the banks hectored them. Don't just shovel at the sides of the canal, they yelled, dig out the middle of it. That's the hard part!
 ''I know what I'm doing,'' Julius Edukon barked back. ''I don't need your advice.''
 Arupe Eoto, a withered old woman, sought to mollify him with praise and a nod to the tribe's sternest taskmaster. ''You really seem to know what you're doing,'' she told him. ''The hunger has taught you well.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ikai Moru, 19, and her mother, who later died, cleared thorny acacia trees from their half-acre plot, which now yields sorghum and corn.
Irrigated land abuts the dun-colored desert. Long-term projects to help Africa's rural poor feed themselves are underfinanced, charities say.
Carrying water from a tank. The Turkana tribe has benefited from the irrigation systems, though malnutrition has worsened in some cases.
 A woman let water flow into her sorghum plot, part of an merican-financed irrigation project in northwestern Kenya. Families were promised corn for their work, but it never arrived. (Photographs by Evelyn Hockstein for The New York Times) Map: 2,000 families in Lokwii finished the irrigation system last year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (90%); IRRIGATION (89%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (89%); FAMILY (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); MALNUTRITION (77%); FOOD CHARITIES (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); CHARITIES (76%); CHILDREN (74%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); KENYA (95%); AFRICA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2007



627 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: Mortgage Loss at CNA Limits Loews Gain

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The Loews Corporation said yesterday that improved results in tobacco and drilling operations helped increase second-quarter profit 15 percent, but its shares fell after its insurance unit, CNA Financial, lost money from investments, including subprime mortgages. 
 CNA suffered $91 million of investment losses, up from $64 million a year earlier, hurt by rising interest rates and a $20 million write-down related to subprime debt. This contributed to a 9 percent decline in quarterly profit. Most of the losses appeared in results of Loews, which owns 89 percent of CNA.
 Loews shares closed down 1.8 percent yesterday at $46.75, and CNA was down 4 percent at $41.62.
 Net income at Loews, a conglomerate based in New York that is run by the Tisch family, rose to $653.4 million, from $568.7 million a year earlier, helped by improved results at its Lorillard tobacco unit and Diamond Offshore Drilling unit.
 Profit attributable to Loews shareholders rose to $511.7 million, or 95 cents a share, from $474.9 million, or 85 cents. Excluding investment losses and other items, profit was about $1.11 a share, based on reported shares outstanding.
 Analysts on average had expected profit of 99 cents a share, according to Reuters Estimates. Revenue rose 8 percent, to $4.64 billion.
 James S. Tisch, Loews's chief executive, attributed much of the losses to rising interest rates, and ''very little'' to deteriorating credit quality.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: LOEWS CORP (98%); CNA FINANCIAL CORP (91%); LORILLARD INC (58%); DIAMOND OFFSHORE DRILLING INC (56%)

TICKER: L (NYSE) (98%); CNA (NYSE) (91%); LO (NYSE) (58%); DO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (98%); NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (98%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (98%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (98%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (91%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (58%); SIC1381 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (56%)

PERSON: JAMES S TISCH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2007



628 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: MEMO PAD

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

 BODY:
NORTHWEST CANCELLATIONS MOUNT Northwest Airlines is again canceling large numbers of flights as the end of a month nears. The airline canceled 526 flights from Friday through Sunday (out of a total 4,187). Yesterday alone, Northwest canceled 117 flights as of 6 p.m. In a memo to Northwest employees on Friday, the chief executive officer, Douglas M. Steenland, blamed ''pilot absenteeism'' for the mounting delays. Northwest canceled more than 1,000 flights in the last week of June. Northwest then ''thinned the July schedule in anticipation of staffing challenges,'' Mr. Steenland told employees. The Northwest branch of the Air Line Pilots Association said in late June that Northwest was unfairly blaming pilots for problems caused primarily by insufficient staff in a system with ''no slack.'' Northwest crews have been routinely reaching their maximum monthly limits on work hours near the end of a month. The pilots' union said that cutbacks had left about 400 pilots on furlough. In his memo last week, Mr. Steenland said that ''all furloughed pilots wishing to return to Northwest'' have been notified of their dates to report for retraining. 
 BUSINESS JET BOOM Deliveries of business jets rose 14.7 percent, to 475 aircraft, in the first six months of this year compared with the period in 2006, the General Aircraft Aviation Manufacturers Association says. The largest of the production business jets continued selling well. Airbus delivered five of its Airbus Corporate Jets, and Boeing delivered three Boeing Business Jets. The jets cost $45 million to $50 million each.
 DEMAND FOR SUMMER AIR TRAVEL Worldwide airline passenger traffic rose 6.3 percent in the first six months of 2007 compared with the period last year, the International Air Transport Association said. ''Strong passenger demand means record numbers of people will travel in August,'' said Giovanni Bisignani, the chief executive officer of the airline trade group. 
 HOTELS RATED BY SEGMENT The highest-rated hotels in guest satisfaction, according to an annual survey of guest responses gathered for the hotel industry by J. D. Power & Associates, were these: Ritz-Carlton (luxury segment); Embassy Suites (upscale segment); Hilton Garden Inn (midscale, full-service segment); Drury Inn & Suites (midscale, limited service segment); Microtel Inns & Suites (economy segment); and Homewood Suites (extended-stay segment). The survey is based on responses from 47,634 guests who stayed in domestic hotels from June 2006 to June 2007. Guest satisfaction is defined by room quality, reservations process, the check-in and check-out experience, hotel services and amenities, and prices.
 ET CETERA The annual convention of the National Business Travel Association in Boston last week drew more than 6,200 people, breaking last year's record of 5,500. ... Reflecting surging business travel demand in Asia, American Express said it acquired a full equity stake in Farrington American Express Travel Services of Hong Kong. Previously, American Express and Farrington Travel had operated the travel management company as a joint venture. ... Expanding its upscale Doubletree hotels brand in Europe, Hilton Hotels said it would open a 240-room Doubletree in Milan in October 2008. ... JetBlue Airways began daily service between Salt Lake City and San Diego and San Francisco last week. JOE SHARKEY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (86%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); AIRCRAFT MFG (71%); LODGING (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (66%); HOTEL CHAINS (66%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (64%); HOTEL AMENITIES (61%)

COMPANY: NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (91%); AIRBUS SAS (55%); BOEING CO (55%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (53%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (57%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (55%); BAB (BRU) (55%); BA (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (55%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (55%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (53%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%)

PERSON: DOUGLAS M STEENLAND (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2007



629 of 629 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2007 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 31, 2007
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Indian Airline Makes Its Case As a Premier-Class Contender

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

 BODY:
BETTER than Singapore, better than Cathay and at least as good as Emirates.'' That was how Naresh Goyal stated his goal that the Indian carrier Jet Airways be rated among the top premier-class service in the world in a few years. 
 I know. Tens of thousands of you, maybe more, are now stuck in overcrowded airports or wedged into cramped seats on delayed planes as the worst summer in domestic air travel history grinds on. 
 So maybe you're not in the mood, or in the market, for another look at the phenomenal growth in top-tier international business and first-class air travel. Next week, I'll return to the world of airline misery where most of us spend our time.
 But Mr. Goyal does present an interesting case. Most Americans have never heard of Jet Airways, the airline he founded in India 14 years ago as a domestic carrier and began building into an international player. That will change.
 Starting Sunday, Jet Airways introduces its first service in the United States, a daily flight between Newark and Mumbai, India (with a stopover at the airline's new hub in Brussels). Jet Airways is operating the flight with one of 10 new Boeing 777-300ER aircraft it ordered as part of a $3.7 billion international fleet expansion that will add 20 777s and Airbus A330s to the fleet. The airline also has orders for 10 new Boeing 787s.
 In the United States, much of the attention in the premium markets has been on trans-Atlantic service, as airlines like United and American spruce up business-class cabins to try to compete with top-tier carriers like British Airways and Virgin Atlantic, as well as the start-up all business-class airlines like Eos.
 Foreign airlines like Singapore Airlines and Cathay Pacific Airways, meanwhile, have set the standards for premium-class travel between the United States and Asia, and have a major chunk of the international premium-class market in India. 
 Jet Airways made its mark in India's fiercely competitive domestic market, where most airlines ''are doing irrational pricing'' and losing money, Mr. Goyal said.
 Jet Airways, which is profitable, now flies between 40 cities in India and has expanded to routes between India and London, Sri Lanka, Nepal and Southeast Asia. The airline plans to add service late this year to San Francisco and later to Toronto, Johannesburg and the Persian Gulf -- all big premium-class markets.
 India's main carrier, the government-owned Air India, has been reacting to the competitive threat to its long-haul markets. It has expanded its international routes and its fleet with 22 long-haul wide-body aircraft, including 777-200ERs and 747-400s in the last three years, and has ordered 27 Boeing 787s among other new long-haul planes. Air India, which recently upgraded its first-class cabins on long-haul flights, now has 29 flights a week between India and Newark, Kennedy International Airport, Los Angeles and Chicago.
 The lure of the Indian market recently prompted Continental Airlines to move up the starting date for its new nonstop service between Newark and Mumbai to Oct. 1 from Oct. 28. Continental has flown between New York and Delhi since 2005.
 Continental promotes its BusinessFirst-class service on long-haul routes. But top-tier premium airlines offer more luxurious amenities, including cubicle-like personal spaces and lie-flat beds in business class. Emirates even has first-class cabins with seats enclosed in private compartments with doors.
 Mr. Goyal says Jet Airways' new long-haul first-class service will top that, with sliding double doors, an 83-inch lie-flat bed, storage closets, a 23-inch flat-screen video monitor, and a work table that can also seat two for an intimate dinner.
 The money is there, he insists. 
 ''In India, there are about 30 million people who would be called 'rich rich' and another 350 million middle class,'' Mr. Goyal said. ''The economy is growing. Many Indians have the money, and they want quality service when they fly internationally -- standards not lower than Singapore and Cathay.''
 He said there are 39 million Indian nationals living overseas, many employed in high-paying jobs in banking, technology and medicine. That doesn't include the growing number of affluent Americans and other foreign business travelers who are now flying regularly between the United States and many cities in India. 
 Fare discounting for premium-class service has begun to break out among some airlines, chiefly United States carriers, on the lucrative trans-Atlantic market, where walk-up business-class fares are typically $8,000 to $9,000. (Walk-up first-class fares between New York and London on British Air are over $12,000.) 
 Mr. Goyal insists that Jet Airways will be able to prosper without heavy discounting. ''We will be charging fares like British Air, Lufthansa, Emirates, Singapore,'' he said. ''We will not go into that fare war craziness. We don't have a Chapter 11 in India.'' 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Gash) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); AIRPORTS (77%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (76%)

COMPANY: JET AIRWAYS (INDIA) LTD (92%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (90%); NATIONAL AVIATION CO OF INDIA LTD (AIR INDIA) (85%); CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS LTD (58%); VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (57%); BOEING CO (57%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (53%)

TICKER: JETAIRWAYS (NSE) (92%); 0293 (HKSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); C6L (SGX) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); MUMBAI, INDIA (58%) INDIAN OCEAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); SINGAPORE (93%); ASIA (91%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2007

 
