

601 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1597 words

HEADLINE: House Democrats Scuttle Revolt On Campaign Finance Measure

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 21

 BODY:
Weary House Democrats late tonight narrowly quelled an internal revolt against their leadership's plan to overhaul campaign spending laws, but the effort left them so spent that they quit for the night, leaving passage of the measure something less than assured.
That left the principal vote on approving the package for Monday, with virtually all the chamber's Republicans and a fair number of Democrats still opposed to many of the measure's most important provisions. 
 After a night in which top House Democrats scrambled to the last minute for support, the lawmakers refused by a margin of 220 to 207 to let a dissident Democrat, Representative Mike Synar of Oklahoma, offer a rival campaign-spending proposal that could well have doomed his superiors' intricate plan.
"Hey, man, they're throwing everything at me," Mr. Synar said early in the day. "It's hand-to-hand combat in the trenches."
The Synar bill would have embarrassed President Clinton, who has called overhauling the campaign-financing laws one of his Administration's chief goals.
The Democratic leadership and President Clinton support the House bill, a true grab-bag of election overhauls that includes voluntary limits on campaign spending, curbs on unregulated contributions and taxpayer financing for candidates' purchases of advertising.
 
Stark Differences With Senate
 Even if the House passes a version of campaign reform, it is not at all clear that it can be successfully mated with a wholly different version that the Senate passed after a long Republican filibuster in June.
Mr. Synar, who offered a simpler package of curbs on political action committees and wealthy donors, called the bill a sham intended to help incumbent Democrats and said the Republicans' alternative was no better.
"Not one campaign race will be any cheaper or any fairer if either of these bills pass," he said. "Both bills are so clearly unconstitutional that it begs the question of the sincerity of either of the parties."
Indeed, he and his backers noted, the leadership's caps on campaign spending would allow candidates to spend up to $1 million on an election -- more than twice the median for House races. Moreover, the measure would not take effect until the Congress passed a separate bill, yet to be written, that would set up a Federal fund to pay for campaign advertising.
The measure's principal sponsor, Representative Sam Gejdenson of Connecticut, allowed that the proposal was not perfect. But he said it "does what is important and what is needed," and "gives everyone a chance to run for Congress" instead of merely the well-off.
The bill now before the House -- drafted after a summer of excruciating negotiations -- tries to curb what many Democrats see as some of the political system's worst excesses, but leaves some of the most beloved vices relatively intact.
Backers depict the measure as an eight-lane highway of good intentions. It would address a signal problem in politics, the exploding cost of running for office, by allowing for voluntary campaign spending limits of $600,000, adjusted for inflation, or $800,000 for candidates who waged hotly contested and expensive primary races.
Candidates who agreed to abide by the limit, and then exceeded it, would be liable for a fine.
Candidates would have an incentive to accept the spending limits: those who did would be awarded up to $200,000 in so-called communications vouchers, applicable to bills for radio or television time, print advertisements or other means of reaching voters.
The total value of the vouchers would equal the total contributions from individual donors, to a maximum of $200 per donor. The aim would be to give candidates an incentive to raise money from large numbers of small donors, since those donations could be largely matched by the vouchers.
The bill also addresses another perceived flaw, the influence of political action committees and rich contributors, by capping political action committee donations at $200,000 per candidate, and limiting large individual donations -- that is, donations exceeding $200 -- to a total of $200,000. Both those limits would cover an entire election cycle, including both primary and general election campaigns.
The measure also seeks to limit outside interests from mounting independent campaigns on behalf of or against an already-declared candidate. The bill tries to choke off financing for such campaigns by making it illegal for anyone who has given money to a declared candidate to then give money to an independent campaign involved in the same election race.
 
Aiming at 'Soft Money'
 The bill also tries to rein in unregulated "soft money" by requiring that all money spent on Federal elections be raised under Federal rules and law. That would prohibit the parties and big donors from raising and shoveling millions of dollars into state and local parties' "get-out-the-vote" efforts that are actually ill-disguised expenses on behalf of Federal candidates.
Instead, the measure would set up a Federally regulated grass-roots fund in each state that would be devoted to efforts by state parties to help Federal candidates.
Most of the major groups involved in efforts to overhaul campaigning, like Common Cause and the League of Women Voters, support the measure. The Republican leadership opposes it because it includes some taxpayer financing, which the party is adamantly against, and because party leaders say it is biased in favor of Democratic incumbents.
Indeed, the bill has a few catches. The principal one is that none of its provisions would take effect until taxpayers agreed, through a checkoff on their tax forms, to finance a fund that would purchase advertising for candidates.
Critics in both parties say that renders the bill moot because, in their view, the public is unlikely to pony up enough tax money any time soon to finance the advertising budgets of more than a thousand major political races.
Moreover, while the bill would impose voluntary limits on campaign spending, it places no ceiling on the total contributions that candidates can raise. That would enable incumbents to carry surpluses from election to election, amassing war chests that would enable them to ignore voluntary spending limits during an especially tough re-election race.
Nor are the voluntary spending limits of up to $800,000 and the $200,000 limit on political action committee contributions especially onerous. The median amount of money raised by winning House members in 1992 was only about $463,000. Of that, 43 percent, or $198,000, came from political action committee donations.
When Republicans are thrown out of that calculation, and victorious Democrats alone are considered, the share of donations coming from action committees rises to 49 percent.
President Clinton had originally sought to reduce the influence of political action committees by reducing their maximum allowed contribution to $1,000 from $5,000, but that effort failed amid stiff opposition from House Democrats.
By contrast, Mr. Synar's package was more modest and straightforward. It would cut the maximum contribution by a political action committee to $1,000 per election from the current $5,000, and the top individual contribution to $500 from $1,000. It also would have counted contributions by minors toward the total of contributions by their parent or guardian, eliminating one common way of subverting limits.
The proposal also would limit "soft money" along the lines of the leadership's proposal. And rather than granting vouchers for advertising or limiting independent campaigns, the plan would have given candidates free broadcast time to respond to attacks by independent forces.
Mr. Synar said he would like eventually to do more. But he said he favored a smaller stopgap package that would reduce contributions by political action committees, curb independent expenditures and close selected loopholes until the two parties can agree on a more workable and comprehensive overhaul.
Both the House and Senate Democrats united behind a campaign-overhaul bill last year that included both spending limits and public financing of campaigns, but that was an election year, when reform was in vogue. Democrats were also confident that President George Bush would veto the bill, and he did.
This year, with angry voters otherwise occupied and the White House controlled by a Democrat, the urge for temperance has been more muted.
The Senate's version of campaign-overhaul legislation applies for the most part only to senators. It wiggled through the Senate last June only after a string of Democratic compromises converted enough Republicans to quash a two-week filibuster against the measure.
The bill provides voluntary spending limits of $2 million to $8.25 million for each Senate election, with the amount gauged to the size of each state's voting-age population.
The measure allows for some public financing of Senate campaigns, but only some. Taxpayer money would be allotted to a candidate only if he agreed to abide by the voluntary caps on campaign spending, and only if an opponent spent more than those caps permitted.
Only two provisions apply to the House as well as the Senate. One bans taxpayer-financed mass mailings by incumbents to their constituents during an election year. The second bans contributions by political action committees outright unless that is ruled unconstitutional, as many anticipate. In that event, donations by the action committees would be limited to $1,000 per election.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FINANCES; ELECTIONS, PUBLIC FINANCING OF; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ELECTION ISSUES; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES ; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ETHICS; CONSTITUTIONS US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (87%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); ETHICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); APPROVALS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SYNAR, MIKE (REPR); WINES, MICHAEL BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1993



602 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORK REGION EXPECTING TO GAIN IN JOBLESS RECOUNT

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 21

 BODY:
New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania stand to reap tens of millions of dollars from a revamping of the Government survey from which unemployment rates are calculated, according to Federal and state officials.
The extra money would result mainly from the states' greater share of Federal aid for job training, job placement and other programs tied to the severity of unemployment in a state or locality. Since the total pool of aid is more or less fixed, other states, like California and Texas, would lose. 
 Officials caution that the figures are preliminary and that the experimental survey used samples too small to be statistically reliable. Still, New York appears to be the biggest potential winner, although Labor Department officials say they are baffled about why.
 
Potential Windfall of Millions
 "It would be in the millions, no question," said Thomas A. Rodick, director of research for the New York State Department of Labor, where confirming data are eagerly anticipated. But he said no plans were being formed for distributing such an inflow, adding, "We never count our chickens."
The potential windfall, which could amount to hundreds of millions of dollars or more, arises from the Government's redesign of its Current Population Survey. This $30 million, seven-year project is aimed at improving the accuracy of this monthly statistical anchor, the best single gauge of the nation's economic performance.
The new methodology involves more precise survey questions, refined definitions and more thorough computerization. Last week the Labor Department announced that an experiment using the new survey had produced an unemployment rate of 7.6 percent in the 12 months through August, five-tenths of a percentage point higher than the 7.1 percent reported under the old methodology.
 
More Precise Questions
 One of the main reasons for this difference was that some unemployed women had been wrongly counted as homemakers and therefore out of the labor force. If a person is not looking for work, he or she is not considered unemployed, and thus the unemployment rate is lowered. Older people were similarly, but to a lesser degree, misclassified, which officials contend is different from undercounted.
Responding to a subsequent inquiry by The New York Times, John E. Bregger, an assistant commissioner at the Bureau of Labor Statistics, provided additional figures for regions and for seven individual states.
Nationally, the difference between the old and new figures was five-tenths of 1 percentage point. In New York it was 1.2 points, the biggest difference in the group. Pennsylvania was 1.1 points higher. California and Texas showed virtually no change, while Ohio, Florida and Illinois were close to the national average.
Higher jobless rates also occurred in New Jersey, but the Labor Department would not provide the specific figure for the state because it regards the sample as too small.
And it said it had no good explanation for the concentration of large differentials in the three states that make up the department's Mid-Atlantic region.
Because New York City has a relatively low proportion of working women compared with other areas, "one can speculate that more women were missed there," Mr. Bregger said. But he said he could not say why this was the case nor could he speculate why some areas outside of New York City had large differentials.
Mr. Rodick said tonight that New York now receives $210 million a year in job training money, a figure set to rise to $250 million or $260 million in 1994. He noted, however, that a further increase based on the new survey computation would not take full effect until 1996, because the program uses 12-month averages. Half the new money would come in 1995, none in 1994.
A spokesman in Harrisburg said Pennsylvania officials were reviewing the Labor Department's findings and could not yet comment on them.
Should these results be repeated when the new procedure takes effect in January -- and Labor Department officials warn that they may not since only 12,000 households were surveyed in the pilot program instead of the usual 60,000 -- a large number of Federal programs involving billions of dollars could be affected.
These programs, all tied at least partly to national or state unemployment rates, include:
*Job training, under which $1.7 billion is provided for teaching skills to the disadvantaged and to workers dislocated by shifts in the economy.
*Wagner-Peyser, an $800 million program that pays for local job-placement and counseling services.
*A $575 million program of benefits tied, among other things, to long-term jobless rates (15 weeks or more).
*Summer jobs for youth, $670 million in the latest fiscal year.
*Emergency food and shelter for the homeless, a $130 million program administered by private charities overseen by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
Yet another Federal program provides for the State Department to issue an additional 3,000 visas to encourage immigrant entrepreneurs to set up businesses in areas where unemployment is at least 50 percent above the national average.
In addition to the updated methodology, the job figures are to be adjusted in January to incorporate for the first time population estimates from the 1990 census. These figures themselves are to reflect an adjustment for the undercounting, especially of blacks and Hispanics, that occurs with each census.
The population adjustment, which would add one-tenth of a percentage point to the national unemployment rate, does little for New York, Mr. Bregger said today. California, with its huge Hispanic population, will be the big winner, at least partly offsetting the loss of money to other states from the methodological overhaul.
Nationally, the census adjustment will raise the population 16 and over in April 1990 by 1.1 million, with 855,000 more people employed, 165,000 more people unemployed and the remainder not in the work force.
By region, the experimental survey showed unemployment in the Northeast averaging nine-tenths of a point above the traditionally calculated rate, with the Midwest seven-tenths of a point higher and the South two-tenths of a point higher. The West showed no change over all, with a four-tenths of a point rise for the Mountain states offset by a one-tenth of a point decline for the more populous Pacific states, the Labor Department found.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) ; BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) ; BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; PENNSYLVANIA; NEW JERSEY ; CALIFORNIA; TEXAS UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; FEDERAL AID (US); WOMEN; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION ; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); STATISTICS (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ; BREGER, JOHN E (ASST COMR)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1993



603 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1516 words

HEADLINE: Strikers at American Airlines Say the Objective Is Respect

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NASHVILLE, Nov. 21

 BODY:
It is not so much the pay or the benefits or the sometimes grinding, four- and five-city, one-day trips or the interminable, unpaid delays between some flights. It is the little things that the striking flight attendants at American Airlines say grate on them and amount to a lack of respect.
"They treat us like we're disposable, a number," said Helen Neuhoff, a 33-year-old international flight attendant who lives here with her husband and two children and had earned $23,000 this year until the start of the strike. 
 And Kylee Haviland, 24, an attendant for three years, said: "I'd rather be on the planes. But I've got to stand up for what I believe. My self-respect is more important than my job."
 
Threats and Suspicions
 This is one of those strikes, like the ones at Greyhound Bus Lines and Eastern Air Lines a few years ago and last year at Caterpillar, in which an intangible issue -- a suspicion of senior management -- arouses the workers more than anything that can be written into contracts. Some attendants acknowledged in interviews over the weekend that they feared for their jobs but, they said, not so much that they would be intimidated by the threat that American's management renewed today to replace them permanently with new recruits.
At the price of disrupting the travel plans of tens of thousands of people and forcing their own employer to swallow a crippling loss of fares, the attendants said they simply had no other option to make their point to the chairman of American Airlines, Robert L. Crandall. The strike by American's 21,000-member Association of Professional Flight Attendants, 85 percent of them women, ended its fourth day today.
The company is seeking changes in work rules and benefits in its proposed new contract. It has offered wage increases, but the work rule changes mean that attendants would work longer hours. A company spokesman, Marty Heires, said: "We are faced with a dire situation here. We simply have to cut costs to become competitive. They don't grasp the economic facts of this industry, or they have chosen to ignore them."
 
Anger Over Attitudes
 But Wendy Cook-Palmer, 26, the leader of the 330 attendants based in Nashville, did not see the strike simply in dollars-and-cents terms. At a potluck supper and rally for the strikers on Saturday night, she offered an example of the things that angered the strikers. An attendant for six years who earned close to $21,000 last year, she said all attendants based in the United States were ordered to attend three-hour "Commitment to Courtesy" classes, without pay.
"They told us the reason we were losing money was because we were rude to passengers," Ms. Cook-Palmer said. Her class watched a film opening with the image of a graveyard of the broken fuselages of fallen airlines like Pan Am and Eastern. Later the students were assigned to small groups, each of which was given markers and a poster board to draw a picture showing attendants being nice to passengers.
"People got livid," she said, more livid than they did about a class last year when, she said, they were told how to arrange food on a plate or than they still do when supervisors prop quarters against the attendants' ears to see that their earrings do not violate a dress-code regulation that they be no larger than the coin. "They treated us like we were back in kindergarten," said Linda Engen, 34, another attendant.
 
Quiet as a Church
 Smokey Stover, the head of the Allied Pilots Association's office for American in Nashville, said, "The basic issue is the way they're treated, the way all employeees in this company are treated." The union is picketing the airport in sympathy with the flight attendants, although its members continue to fly.
Management and the union have quibbled about whether more or less than 10 percent of the attendants have crossed the picket line and stayed on the job, but the strike is clearly mutilating the business here. Passengers are still showing up at American's ticket counters in Nashville, one of the airline's smaller hubs with 96 flights coming and going a day. But beyond the counters, the corridors to American gates are almost as still as a church on a weekday.
Flight attendants are an uncommon group of workers. Typically they are paid for just 71 hours of work a month. But that is time in the air. They spend many more, unpaid hours between flights and sleeping far from home. Barbara Thrower, 44, a veteran of Eastern and an American attendant for less than two years who earns about $15,000, recounted a typical trip that began on Tuesday, Aug. 31.
From Nashville she flew to Tampa, Fla., on to Raleigh, N.C., and then to Albany. Her layover in Albany was 9 hours, 40 minutes, and she slept about six hours. On Wednesday, she flew to Raleigh and then to Charleston, S.C., where she had a relatively long layover of 19 hours. On Thursday, she flew to Raleigh, to Syracuse, back to Raleigh and finally back to Nashville. After such a schedule she could be at home for a day or a week.
The majority of 20 attendants interviewed here are single. Some have college degrees, but some went no further than high school. What they have in common, instead of any particular skill, is an open, energetic, friendly demeanor. This is what American Airlines looks for when it chooses among the legions of young applicants. Those who are considered good candidates are invited to the company's headquarters in Fort Worth for interviews around tables with other applicants.
 
New Attendants Struggle
 At the end of the sessions, some are told to expect a letter in two weeks, Ms Haviland said. But an interviewer subtly approaches a few. " 'Come with me to this room,' she said," Ms. Haviland recalled. "You get weighed. They ask you if they can cut your hair. They have us looking like Barbie dolls when we get through. I don't mind that. The recruits also receive six weeks of training, mostly in safety procedures."
Attendants earn an average of $23,000. New attendants, especially single mothers, struggle to get by on their $15,000 or so a year, and with little seniority, they are less able than longer-term attendants in arranging their schedules to be assured of regular days off or two consecutive weeks off, which most attendants prefer.
Veteran attendants who fly international routes earn up to $40,000 and are allowed full-day layovers in foreign cities. Some who have predictable schedules also work second jobs.
Ms. Haviland seems typical of the younger agents, the sort the airline has been recruiting in recent years. They have little seniority and are vulnerable to the permanent replacement or the permanent layoff that Mr. Crandall has promised as he tries to shrink the business. She ranks 16,498 on the flight attendant seniority list of 21,000.
With a foot-long pony tail, Ms. Haviland is vigorous and seemingly uncontainably happy. She was raised in Phoenix and finished high school there. At 16 she worked at a McDonald's, and at 17 she took her first regular job, as an office manager at a drug and alcohol treatment center.
"I'm real junior," she said adding that she was single and without children. "Our flights are awarded by seniority, so I get what's left over. I'm the flight attendant we're fighting for, the extra on the plane. I get on with different crews every leg."
American wants to eliminate extras as regular crew members and meet the need for additional help by calling on reserve attendants, those who are periodically assigned a month without any flights but are on constant call.
Ms. Haviland said she earned $17,000 last year, $2,000 or $3,000 more than her regular pay, because she worked many days off as a $60-a-day, part-time clerk in American's flight service representative's office here. "I did it practically every day I didn't fly," she said.
 
'It's Very Exciting'
 She cherishes her job. "I love it all," she said. "I get on that plane! I say, 'Welcome aboard!' It's very exciting. I love helping old ladies get on. I love helping unaccompanied children.
"But you open the paper, and it says Bob Crandall says he doesn't know if American Airlines is going to be around in 10 years. And he says it's because of the labor contract. He doesn't say maybe we made a mistake with value pricing. All he says is labor costs, labor costs, labor costs."
Like Ms. Haviland, the attendants here are exhilarated because all alone, this largely female union has stood up to Mr. Crandall, who they see as a symbol of their anger with the airline. They say he has singled them out for blame for the airline's $1.2 billion loss over the last three years; it turned profitable this year. The attendants maintain that the huge expansion of terminals and fleets in the 1980's and Mr. Crandall's ill-fated "value pricing plan" last year in which he cut fares by 50 percent, were bigger contributors to American's losses.
"On one hand," Ms. Thrower said, "management says you're No. 1. Then a contract comes along. They say 'We can get rid of you just like that.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: American Airlines declined a request by striking flight attendants for mediation in the fourth day a strike. Lutar Shaw, a skycap, read a book in an empty luggage area at O'hare International Airpoprt in Chicago. (Associated Press)(pg. A1); "My self-respect is more important than my job," said Kylee Haviland, a flight attendant walking a picket line near the American Airlines ticket counter at Nashville International Airport. Rick Farmer, second from left, a pilot, joining Marlene Jones, left, Kathy Dennis and Ed Peters, flight attendants, watching the American Airlines chairman, Robert L. Crandall, announce flight availability. (Photographs by Christopher Berkey for The New York Times)(pg. A9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC; ASSOCIATION OF PROFESSIONAL FLIGHT ATTENDANTS AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (92%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC; ASSOCIATION OF PROFESSIONAL FLIGHT ATTENDANTS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; STRIKES; LABOR; LABOR-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS AIRLINES (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); STRIKES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (71%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: COOK-PALMER, WENDY; KILBORN, PETER T MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1993



604 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-7
 
EUROPE WEIGHS SHORT WORK WEEK
France has become enthusiastic about a proposal to cut back the work week to four days, thus spreading the work around, and other European countries with high unemployment are also interested. A1 

Many U.S. unions back shorter week, but employers seem reluctant. A6
 
U.S. SHIFT TOWARD NORTH KOREA
The United States is altering its strategy with regard to volatile North Korea, preparing to offer a package of small concessions in return for immediate, limited inspections of its nuclear sites. A5
 
SETTLERS WARN ON ISRAEL PLAN
Leaders of Israeli settlers in the West Bank and Gaza strip are saying that they will not recognize the authority of the Palestinian police force whose establishment is part of Israel's agreement with the Palestine Liberation Organization. A7
 
UKRAINE STANCE ANGERS RUSSIA
Russia reacted angrily to the conditions Ukraine's Parliament set in ratifying the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, including its decision to retain 58 percent of its warheads, saying the action could destabilize Europe. A3
 
CENTER WEAKENS IN ITALY VOTE
The Christian Democratic center in Italian politics seemed to be collapsing in favor of parties on the left and right, exit polls indicated, in city elections that were seen as a plebiscite on the nation's scandals. A3
 
EUROPEAN AIRLINES END TALKS
Four European airlines called off ambitious negotiations aimed at a merger, citing irreconcilable differences over what strategy to adopt in the United States. D1
 
Beijing Journal: Trying to shut out the information era. A4
 
National A8-9, B8-10
 
CONGRESS WINDING DOWN
A weary House of Representatives fought back an attempt to replace a campaign-finance package favored by the leadership with rival legislation. The bill, which has dim prospects of becoming law, faces a vote today. A1
 
STRIKING FOR RESPECT
Striking flight attendants at American Airlines say it was a lack of respect, rather than the pay or benefits, that led to their walkout. A1
 
AIRLINE STRIKE CONTINUES
American Airlines rebuffed a request by the attendants' union for emergency mediation to help settle a four-day-old standoff. The decision means that travel through the Thanksgiving holiday is likely to remain difficult for tens of thousands of passengers. A8
 
American's 10-day safety course for employees and new recruits. A8
 
NURSES IN PRIMARY HEALTH CARE
More and more, nurses are edging onto turf once reserved for doctors, serving as primary health providers for families. A1
 
PRESIDENT'S CALL TO FIGHT CRIME
In the aftermath of the Senate's sudden passage of the Brady bill, President Clinton told an audience in East Los Angeles to concentrate on what they could do for themselves to fight crime. A8
 
REVIVING THE BRADY BILL
Senator George Mitchell was stubborn, Senator Bob Dole was flexible, and the result was the Brady bill brought back to life. B8
 
SAVORING THE VICTORY
Sarah Brady recalled the legislative gambles she and her husband, John, took to get the gun control measure through the Senate after more than five years of trying. B8
 
WHY PACKWOOD STAYED
Senator Bob Packwood of Oregon changed his mind about resigning when his diaries were subpoenaed, Senate Republican leaders say.B8
 
HOUSE REJECTS STATEHOOD BILL
The House of Representatives turned down a bill that would have transformed the District of Columbia into the 51st state, but its supporters vowed to press on. B8
 
Metro Digest B1
 
UNEMPLOYMENT GROWS ON PAPER
New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania stand to reap tens of millions of dollars from a revamping of the Government survey used to calculate unemployment rates, according to Federal and state officials. A1
 
THE TARGET IN THE FRONT SEAT
The average take in a livery cab robbery, $75, is worth a driver's life. But to the families of the 186 New York cabdrivers slain in the last five years, almost always poor immigrants, the loss is incalculable. A1
 
AIDE DENIES ROLLINS'S ACCOUNT
The New Jersey campaign aide in charge of building support for Christine Todd Whitman among minority voters has denied Edward J. Rollins's account of their talk about the support of black ministers. A1
 
Sports C1-9
 
Basketball: Nets top Lakers. C3
 
Ewing uncertain for Knicks. C3
 
Columns: Anderson on Jets. C7
 
Football: Giants win and tie for first. C1
 
Jets hang on to beat Bengals. C1
 
Nebraska jumps to No. 1. C1
 
Bears edge Chiefs. C4
 
Falcons upset Cowboys. C5
 
Packers conquer Lions. C5
 
Oilers edge Browns. C6
 
Hockey: Islanders beat Flyers. C3
 
Soccer: North Carolina women win. C9
 
Tennis: Graf takes title. C2
 
Business Digest D1
 
Obituaries B12
 
Emile Ardolino, film director.
 
Heather Farr, golfer.
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-16
 
Mapplethorpe Foundation enters Warhol estate dispute. C11
 
Ballet Theater reorganizes its board. C12
 
Theater: "The Black Rider." C11
 
"Cyrano: The Musical" C11
 
Music: "Turandot" in Norfolk. C11
 
Jazz bands and soloists at Carnegie Hall. C13
 
A rarely heard opera. C13
 
Mark Chesnutt at Tramps. C14
 
Books: "Never Stop Running," on Allard Lowenstein. C16
 
Television: "Sesame Street" turns 25. C14
 
"The Nature of Sex." C14
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A10-11
 
Editorials
 
A dangerous deficit bill.
 
Trying again in Ireland.
 
Give John Demjanjuk a new trial.
 
Letters
 
Anthony Lewis: Where is Janet Reno?
 
William Safire: The three Clintons.
 
Ethan Klingsberg: File fever.
 
Bridge C16
 
Chronicle B6
 
Crossword C14

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (94%); EUROPE (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); FRANCE (92%); UKRAINE (92%); ITALY (92%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (53%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (56%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (56%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (94%); EUROPE (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); FRANCE (92%); UKRAINE (92%); ITALY (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS WORK WEEK (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); GUN CONTROL (86%); HEALTH CARE (86%); NURSES & NURSING (85%); LEGISLATION (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); POLITICS (73%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (70%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (70%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (70%); POLICE FORCES (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (66%); CITIES (51%); CITY GOVERNMENT (51%); THANKSGIVING (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (55%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1993



605 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2691 words

HEADLINE: Four-Day Prescription: Europe's Workweek Debate -- A special report.;
Europeans Ponder Working Less So More of Them Can Have Jobs

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 21

 BODY:
France, it is sometimes said, has little inclination for reform and a penchant for revolution. True to its reputation, the country has suddenly become obsessed by a revolutionary idea: a wholesale switch to a four-day workweek that would, its proponents insist, slash unemployment, improve family life and bring new hope to a disenchanted society.
The proposal's chief advocate, Pierre Larrouturou, 29, a consultant for the accounting firm Arthur Andersen, has achieved such fame in recent weeks that he is now known simply as "le gourou." Swept from Elysee Palace to Government offices to television talk shows, Mr. Larrouturou has tapped what appears to be a thirst for a radical solution at a time of political torpor and economic recession in Europe. 
 "The four-day week can create two million jobs without sacrificing competitiveness," Mr. Larrouturou said in an interview. "The alternative, more and more people in Europe perceive, is creeping despair."
 
Resonance Beyond France
 Although the debate has been most intense in France, the four-day week has also struck a deep chord in Germany and other Western European countries reeling from high unemployment.
Companies like Volkswagen see the shorter workweek as an emergency measure to save thousands of jobs, while some politicians promote it as a "New Deal" to transform and inspire societies beset by economic insecurity.
In Italy, unions are pushing the slogan "Lavorare meno, lavorare tutti" -- "Work less, and everyone works."
The Larrouturou gospel in France is based on a switch, proposed for 1996, from the nation's current five-day, 39-hour workweek to a four-day, 33-hour week; an average 5 percent reduction in salary; a 10 percent increase in the private work force to create two million new jobs, and tax cuts and incentives to compensate companies for the added costs. It also offers a rosy vision of the plan's economic effects, from lower absenteeism and higher productivity to a more motivated society.
 
It May Seem a Dream<HGE>
With Western Europeans working fewer hours than their competitors in the United States and Japan, let alone South Korea and Singapore, the four-day week may seem a wistful dream rather than a serious model for change in French or European society.
Germans already work a 37-hour week with six weeks of paid vacation -- "by far the shortest working hours among industrialized nations," Klaus Friedrich, chief economist for Dresdner Bank, said.
Nonetheless, politicians of varying political stripes are jumping on the bandwagon. A French parliamentary committee voted last week in favor of experimenting with a 33.3-hour workweek at companies that increase their staffs by 10 percent.
Despite talk of a progressive New Deal, some workers fear that companies will use the four-day week to exploit employees without creating any new jobs. Others dismiss Mr. Larrouturou's plan as illogical. "The 32-hour week is a utopia and a joke," said Gerard Grannec, 39, a technician at the A.M.P. electronics plant in the northwestern Paris suburb of Pontoise. "You reduce working time and wages. But what is the worker going to do with his extra leisure time if he has no money? And where's this supposed boost to consumption going to come from if people are broke?"
 
The Challenge
Desperate People Look for Answers
 Behind the growing fascination with a shorter workweek is a combination of economic pressure and psychological angst.
A long recession and a steady surge in European unemployment have made many people insecure. At the same time, the inexorable advance of technology, global competition and leaner production methods has created what the French sociologist Edgar Morin called "a crisis of the future in which people no longer believe things will get better and are looking desperately for alternatives."
Computers, robots and other machines, workers and executives say, will go on replacing people, European companies will go on moving to Singapore or India, where labor is much cheaper, and instant global communications will keep on showing up the high cost of doing business in Europe, with its costly social welfare programs.
More than 1.5 million people in the European Community have lost their jobs in the last year in a process that a leading Gaullist, Philippe Seguin, has called "a social Munich." More than 11.3 percent, or 19.1 million people, in the 12 European Community countries are unemployed.
In France, the jobless rate stands at 11.8 percent, almost double the rate in the United States. In Germany, the council of economic advisers told Chancellor Helmut Kohl this month that unemployment would rise to four million, or 10 percent of the work force, next year, from the current level of 3.5 million or 9.2 percent.
With the drumbeat of layoffs from such industry giants as Philips, Daimler-Benz and Michelin continuing, any consultant giving a European politician advice for a campaign today could be very succinct: "It's jobs, stupid."
"Jobs are disappearing so fast, people are saying we must look for new solutions," said Alain Touraine, a French political scientist. "The French could not give a damn today if they are governed by the left or the right; what matters is unemployment."
In Germany, too, a conviction has taken hold among many people that Europe's emergence from recession, repeatedly postponed and now projected for the second half of 1994, will not restore the lost jobs. Most economists estimate that with 3 percent growth, few if any jobs would be created. With 4.5 percent growth, new jobs would result, but no one expects such an economic spurt in the foreseeable future.
"I am skeptical that jobs will come back," said Berthold Huber, the chief wage negotiator for the the huge I. G. Metall labor union, representing 3.2 million German metalworkers. "About four million unemployed are going to remain in Germany, and that is a major problem for democracy. So we have to at least look at the shorter working week."
 
Some Answers
In an Ill Wind, Different Tacks
 Behind the four-day idea lurk a lot of different notions. They range from emergency steps like Volkswagen's recent proposal to avoid mass dismissals by switching to a four-day week with 20 percent less pay to idealistic visions of societies turning their backs on the scourge of frenetic global competition in favor of a more balanced way of life. In between those extremes, many companies have already acted.
At the Regensburg plant of the German automaker B.M.W., for example, a four-day, 36-hour week has existed since 1990.
The idea behind the plan was for individuals to work less but more flexibly, enabling machinery to operate for longer periods. Thus a Saturday shift, generally taboo in Germany, was introduced and weekday shifts were extended from eight to nine hours. Although wages were unchanged, productivity gains more than offset the cost of hiring more people, B.M.W. says.
"I was skeptical at first, particularly about working Saturday, because that is when I play soccer for my local team," said Otto Sollner, a production line worker. "But now I appreciate the advantages, particularly the intermittent long weekends."
Similar changes have taken place this year at the French subsidiaries of the American computer manufacturers Digital Equipment and Hewlett-Packard. Hit by the recession and squeezed margins in the worldwide computer market, they faced the alternatives of layoffs or a sweeping reorganization of working schedules.
"The choice we put to workers at our Grenoble plant was simple: either change working habits, or we relocate to Singapore and all the jobs will be lost," said Marese Cosseron, a spokeswoman for Hewlett-Packard.
The result was an entirely new work structure that has tripled production at the plant, which produces microcomputer components. No employee works more than four days a week, but the plant is kept open 24 hours a day, seven days a week, instead of the previous five days.
Working weeks now vary from 26 hours and 50 minutes for employees working night and weekend shifts, 33 hours and 30 minutes for those on afternoon shifts and 34 hours and 40 minutes for those on morning shifts. All 250 employees, including 40 new ones, are paid on the basis of the plant's former week of 37 hours and 30 minutes.
"We are pleased by experiments like Hewlett-Packard," said Gilbert Fournier, a senior official of the French Confederation of Democratic Labor, a moderate union. "We are convinced that shorter working weeks that also leave machinery functioning as long or longer represent a key to creating employment in Europe."
The Communist union, the General Labor Confederation, opposes such flexibility on the basis that it would institutionalize night and weekend work without overtime. "Flexibility is often just a code word for companies to cut wage costs by getting people to work when they like without overtime," Chantal Rey, a union official, said.
Digital introduced a different plan earlier this year involving salary cuts averaging about 7 percent for people choosing a four-day week. With 530 employees of a total of 4,000 opting for the plan, 90 jobs that were to have been cut were saved.
"A large number of people were interested in working less and being paid less," Robin Ashmore, a Digital spokeswoman, said. "Young people want to divide their lives differently and have more leisure time."
Digital says its productivity has not suffered.
 
The Message
Some Buy Idea, Others Don't
 Martine Dessemond, a personnel manager at Digital who opted for the four-day week, said she was now spending more time with her grandson and had started a small consulting business in her spare time.
"I am more efficient in my work, less stressed and speedy outside it, and have not seen my life style much affected by the pay cut," she added. "But I am convinced the four-day week must be negotiated business by business rather than be the object of some grand reform or government diktat."
The idea has stirred far less interest among British companies, which are wary of managed solutions to unemployment and generally convinced that excessive regulation lies at the core of Europe's economic problems.
But in France, Michel Rocard, who will be the Socialist Party's presidential candidate in 1995, sees the germ of a social revolution in the four-day week, a means, as he has said, "to jump-start society."
In this vision, the four-day week would be a way to live differently, an exchange of slightly lower pay for greater personal freedom, a means to enjoy the benefits of automation rather than suffer its ravages, a vote for solidarity over ever more grueling economic competition, a fresh start for a disaffected Continent.
In recent weeks, Mr. Larrouturou has carried this message to Anne Lauvergeon, the economic adviser to President Francois Mitterrand. The President later spoke favorably of the four-day week. The "gourou" suggests that the reform be put to the French in a referendum or as a theme of the 1995 presidential election.
 
Pro and Con
The Numbers: Do They Add Up?
 As envisaged in Mr. Larrouturou's 54-page manifesto, everything goes swimmingly. After national legislative approval, French companies move to a four-day week in 1996 and take on 10 percent more staff. Wages cuts vary from 3 percent for the lowest paid to 8 percent for higher salaries, with an average of 5 percent.
Young technocrats from the best French state schools would help companies prepare their reorganization, including the introduction of profit-sharing schemes that would eventually help compensate for pay cuts.
To offset increased corporate costs, the state assumes the financing of unemployment insurance, suppressing the 8.8 percent payroll tax. On top of the 5 percent wage cut and an estimated 5 percent productivity gain through the reorganization of work shifts, this should make the revolution "cost neutral" for companies, Mr. Larrouturou estimates.
Paradoxical as it may seem, the theory is that companies will not actually face higher costs if more people work less.
Equally miraculously, the state does not suffer financially from abolishing the unemployment payroll tax, which is expected to bring in $21.8 billion this year. Rather, with two million fewer people unemployed, the state would save about $27.5 billion in payments that would have gone to people without jobs, and thereby come out ahead. With more people working, the economy would supposedly rebound, widening the tax base.
Yet among five workers interviewed at the A.M.P. electronics plant in Pontoise, only one worker, Michel Angard, said he would support the idea -- "providing it means a guaranteed end to layoffs and my salary cut does not exceed 1 percent."
Mr. Grannec, the technician, said: "Companies will just keep a smaller staff and make employees work more. Or they'll use short-term contracts with no benefits, promotions or bonuses to pay."
Management seems far more open to the four-day week. "We are on the eve of a revolution in the way work is organized in Europe," said Jean-Pierre Nannio, personnel director at U.A.P., the big state-owned insurance group in Paris.
A seeming majority in the French Parliament now backs the notion of a shorter workweek, despite warnings from several economists and former President Valery Giscard d'Estaing that if France is to remain competitive, a 32-hour week would mean an 18 percent cut in wages.
Certainly the management of Germany's Volkswagen believes that a 20 percent cut in work time only makes sense if accompanied by a 20 percent cut in wages. That is what it has proposed, as an alternative to dismissing 31,000 people by 1995. Discussion of the proposal began last week.
"The four-day week could be useful in crisis management, as at Volkswagen, Mr. Friedrich of Dresdner Bank said. "But as a medium-term policy, it is a great craziness. You do not resolve a problem by working less.
"The basic question in Europe should be how to make our economies flexible enough to create jobs with low growth," he said. "In other words, get rid of the regulations, like no weekend work in Germany. The machinery is not Catholic or Protestant."
 
Assessment
Critics Lay Blame On Rigid Rules
 Opponents of the four-day week, particularly in Britain, say the solution to Europe's unemployment crisis lies in doing away with regulations and costly welfare programs that add considerably to wage costs and have made the European job market the most inflexible in the world. Since 1970, real economic growth in the 12 countries that now form the European Community has totaled 73 percent, but employment has risen only 7 percent.
"Unemployment is proportional to the degree of state involvement and rigidity in an economy," said Alain Madelin, France's conservative Economic Development Minister. "When Europe grows, unlike the United States, it does not create jobs, because we are overregulated."
Nevertheless, there are signs that European workers have run out of patience with arguments based on the global market. When Air France workers went on strike last month against proposed job cuts, surveys showed that 70 percent of French people supported them, despite the disruption. The French Government retreated, aware that people saw the strikers not as vandals but as crusaders for the security of everyone's jobs.
"The lesson of Air France is that people have had enough," Mr. Touraine, the sociologist, said.
He said the French now appeared to be saying, "Look, my plumber can't fix the bathroom anymore, so I'm damn well going to change plumber."
"And, for all its current vagueness," Mr. Touraine said, "the only real recipe for change they see is the four-day week."
Mr. Huber, the wage negotiator for the I.G. Metall union, said he was tired of German executives telling him that one German worker now costs as much as 70 Russian workers and that some benefits would have to be abandoned if Germany was to remain competitive.
"Where are the cuts supposed to stop?" he asked. "At the Czech level? Or the Thai? Or the Russian?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Villagers of St.-Jean le Blanc, France, at a debate on the four-day workweek. Some of those for and against the idea held cards expressing their opinion. (Michel Baret for The New York Times); Automobile workers assembling cars at the BMW plant in Regensburg, Germany, where a four-day, 36-hour week has existed since 1990. (Peter Schinzler/Agency Anne Hamann, Munich for The New York Times)(pg. A6)
 
Graph: "On the Job and Off" shows unemployment and workweek statistics for selected countries. (Sources: E.C. Statistics Office; Greman Statistics Office; International Labor Office of Geneva; U.S. Labor Statistics Bureau)(pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

TICKER: VWA (AMS) (55%); VW (SWX) (55%); VOW (FRA) (55%); VOA (PAR) (55%); VKW (LSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); FRANCE (96%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (87%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (54%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (59%); 

COMPANY: VOLKSWAGEN AG (55%); INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (59%); INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (59%); INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FRANCE; GERMANY; EUROPE EUROPE (98%); FRANCE (96%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (87%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (54%); PARIS, FRANCE (59%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WORKING HOURS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; HIRING AND PROMOTION; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS WORK WEEK (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); POLITICS (88%); TRENDS (86%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); FAMILY (72%); TAX LAW (71%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (63%); HOLIDAY & VACATION LEAVE (60%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (55%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (55%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER; LARROUTUROU, PIERRE

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1993



606 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Revising North Korea Strategy

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Nov. 21

 BODY:
Even as President Clinton and leaders from across Asia met here to declare the arrival of a new "Pacific community" based on economic rather than security links, Administration officials working the back rooms of Asia's first summit meeting were quietly revising their strategy for forcing North Korea to give up its nuclear weapons program.
This week in Washington, Mr. Clinton and South Korea's President, Kim Young Sam, are expected to agree on a long-brewing change of course in its dealings with the bankrupt but volatile North Korean Government. Under a so-called "package deal," the United States will offer a series of small concessions and larger promises of future aid to North Korea -- and steps toward diplomatic recognition -- in return for immediate, limited inspections of its nuclear sites. 
 Until now, Secretary of Defense Les Aspin and other top Administration officials have said that "the ball is in North Korea's court," meaning it must either concede or face economic sanctions that would choke off its last supplies of oil and other vital goods.
But after weeks of consultations in Japan and South Korea, Mr. Clinton's senior advisers have recommended a shift in strategy: giving in a bit and making clear what other benefits the North might receive for each step along the road to a full accounting of its nuclear weapons project.
 
Several Aides Have Doubts
 But several Asian and American officials interviewed here during the last week say they have serious doubts the softened approach will be any more successful than other efforts during the past two years to negotiate with the North's enigmatic government.
They also fear that Mr. Clinton may be about to set an awkward precedent that could come back to haunt future efforts to stop the spread of nuclear weapons: rewarding a nuclear renegade for merely fulfilling its minimal obligations as a signer of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.
"It is our last real chance," said a senior South Korean official. "If nothing happened in the next few weeks, we will have to start with the sanctions."
North Korea was absent from the meetings here last week because it is one of the few countries in the region that is not a member of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum. But its presence was felt anyway, as a lurking threat that could wreak havoc on the booming prosperity of the world's fastest-growing region, either by striking out at its neighbors or by collapsing politically.
 
The Unstated Asterisk
 Containing North Korea was the first topic when Mr. Clinton met Japan's Prime Minister, Morihiro Hosokawa. Every time Mr. Clinton or any other leader here talked about the need to build a post-cold-war "community" in the Pacific, a daily incantation since officials from the organization's 15 member countries first began landing here a week ago, the North was always the unstated asterisk.
South Koreans talked about the need to "gradually bring the North back to the world community." It is the shorthand phrase for avoiding their nightmare, a collapse of the North Korean Government that would leave South Korea with a multibillion-dollar bill for feeding and reindustrializing its enemy of five decades. The Japanese spoke of the need to prevent both missile attacks and a huge flow of North Korean refugees to Japan, both terrifying scenarios in the eyes of many officials.
Such concerns about pressing North Korea too hard, prompting it either to strike out blindly or implode, lie behind the new strategy.
While the Administration has in recent weeks greatly toughened its tone concerning the North, the new strategy is to dangle more carrots, rather than brandish the stick of immediate economic sanctions.
In low-level discussions through North Korea's mission at the United Nations, the United States has suggested it would abandon its annual military exercises in South Korea as soon as the North permitted International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors to resume their regular surveys of the nuclear complex at Yongbyon, 60 miles north of the country's capital.
The Pentagon has been willing to give up the expensive military exercises for some time. But surrendering it now would mean acceding to one of the North's demands in return for resumption of inspections that the North had permitted until this past summer.
Just last spring the United States was characterizing those inspections as totally inadequate, saying that far more intrusive surveys -- including a "special inspection" of a nuclear dump site -- were needed immediately.
"We've put the special inspection on the back burner for now," an Administration official said, "just to get the talks going again." He was referring to a so-called third round of talks between senior State Department officials and the North Koreans, which were supposed to take place in September. The United States said at the time that it was useless to meet because the North had yet to fulfill commitments it made in July at the second round of talks in Geneva.
 
Diplomatic Recognition Sought
 At a third round, the United States is expected to outline a path toward improved relations, in which the North would open up its nuclear sites in return for nearly simultaneous rewards, from Western economic aid to steps toward diplomatic recognition, the goal Mr. Kim's Government seems to covet most. If the North agrees, the United States and its allies will hold off on seeking economic sanctions.
What both the Americans and South Koreans fear is that their hand will be forced by Hans Blix, the Director General of the international energy agency. A month ago, Mr. Blix said monitoring devices at Yongbyon would run out of film and batteries by the end of October. That seemed to set a Nov. 1 deadline for the North, after which Mr. Blix would have to declare he could no longer guarantee that nuclear material was not being diverted to the weapons project. But when the date came, Mr. Blix softened his position. Meanwhile, American officials said their intelligence agencies reported no major nuclear-related activity.
But Mr. Blix cannot hold off much longer without undermining the credibility of the monitoring agency. When he declares, in the agency's lingo, that "the continuity of inspections has been broken," American and South Korean officials say they will have no choice but to seek action by the United Nations Security Council.
American officials have conducted lengthy studies to see if there would be any way to take out North Korea's military ability with a pre-emptive strike but have concluded that they have almost no viable military options.
That was confirmed today by Mr. Christopher, who said on the ABC News program "This Week" that the size of the North Korean Army and its proximity to the border should discourage "too easy an analogy" with Israel's pre-emptive strike on an Iraqi reactor in 1981.
At the center of much of the back-room diplomacy on the issue here was China, the closest approximation of an ally that North Korea has left. Both Mr. Clinton and Mr. Hosokawa of Japan urged President Jiang Zemin of China to press the Communist Government of Kim Il Sung for quick concessions.
 
China's Influence in Doubt
 In fact, many doubt how much influence China still holds over the 81-year old Mr. Kim.
The real purpose of the continued talks with China, both Korean and American officials say, is simply to convince Beijing that the West has made every reasonable diplomatic effort to resolve the nuclear standoff before resorting to sanctions.
That way, they hope, the Chinese will not feel compelled to stick by their ostensible ally should the issue soon go to the Security Council and will abstain instead on the question of imposing sanctions rather than vetoing such a move.
"I think the Chinese will at a proper time cooperate on sanctions," Mr. Christopher said on "This Week," adding: "We need to exhaust diplomatic means. That's what all the countries in the region want us to do, Korea, Japan and China."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); ASIA (94%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); ASIA (94%); JAPAN (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); COLD WAR (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KIM YOUNG SAM (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1993



607 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Unions Back Shorter Week, But Employers Seem Reluctant

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 20

 BODY:
Many American labor unions are also promoting reduced workweeks, usually of 30 or 35 hours, as a way to spread work to people who would otherwise be laid off.
A Democrat in Congress, Representative Lucien E. Blackwell of Philadelphia, introduced a bill last month in the House calling for a Government-mandated 30-hour week, but his proposal so far has gathered little steam. 
 In the view of union leaders, a "shorter workweek" is one that permits workers to earn the same total wages, or nearly as much, as they earn for working the standard 40 hours. Relatively few people -- postal workers, airline pilots and some construction, newspaper and telephone company workers -- have jobs that meet that criterion.
 
Fewer Hours, Fewer Dollars
 Many more people work fewer hours, in effect shorter weeks, but for correspondingly lower pay. The Bureau of Labor Statistics says the largest group consists of 6.2 million part-timers, 5 percent of the total work force of 120 million. Some people work shorter weeks of four instead of five days, but the workdays are 10 hours long.
Even when American businesses are expanding and find that they need new workers, employers resist taking them on, whatever the duration of the workweek.
The reason is that many American employers, unlike most in Europe, pay all or a large part of their workers' health benefits; hiring more workers means higher health care costs.
To avoid such costs, employers have been stretching the workweek, not cutting it back. Since the last recession ended more than two years ago, the average factory worker's overtime has jumped, to 4.3 hours a week in October, the highest level on record.
Over the years, some large employers have adopted shorter weeks only to abandon them. Medtronic Inc. in Minneapolis, a billion-dollar company that makes heart valves and pacemakers, tried short weeks in the 1970's but then dropped them, in part because of complications they caused in the company's customer relations. Customers sometimes found that the employees they were accustomed to dealing with were off for the day.
 
'A Noble Experiment'
 "It was a noble experiment that didn't last more than two years," said Dick Reid, a company spokesman. These days, Mr. Reid said, Medtronic managers are encouraged to accommodate workers with flexible hours -- letting them start two hours earlier than others, for example, and leave two hours early. "But everyone's on 40 hours," he said.
Advocates of shorter workweeks think they may have a way to induce more companies to adopt them. Mr. Blackwell and the A.F.L.-C.I.O. propose to require employers to pay workers twice their regular hourly wages for overtime, compared with 50 percent more now.
That, they say, would push the businesses' cost of overtime beyond the cost of a shorter week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MDT (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (92%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: MEDTRONIC INC (81%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FRANCE; UNITED STATES; EUROPE; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; LABOR UNIONS; WORKING HOURS; LAW AND LEGISLATION WORK WEEK (91%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); OVERTIME (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (86%); ELECTROMEDICAL APPARATUS MFG (86%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); FLEXTIME (78%); LABOR FORCE (75%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (70%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (69%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); STATISTICS (68%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (55%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T; BLACKWELL, LUCIEN E (REPR)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1993



608 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: American Rejects Request for Mediation

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT

 BODY:
American Airlines rebuffed a request by its striking flight attendants' union yesterday for emergency mediation to help settle their standoff that began on Thursday.
The decision means that travel through the busy Thanksgiving holiday period is likely to remain difficult for tens of thousands of passengers. 
 American executives also pledged to passengers to fulfill roughly a third of the airline's flight schedule this week. They issued an apology to consumers, offered $100 vouchers to some of those who are inconvenienced and hammered time and again on the economic pressures that they said were forcing them to let the strike continue, despite the damage it was doing to American's finances and public image.
Robert L. Crandall, American Airlines' chairman, said the union's suggestion of a Presidential Emergency Board to mediate was unacceptable because, "a mediator always splits the difference," and American could not afford to budge from the contract it has offered attendants.
He also said such a board might be "politically oriented." The three board members would be chosen by President Clinton, who relied on labor's support in his election, but who won passage of the North American Free Trade Agreement over the strong opposition of labor.
If American had agreed to request a Presidential Emergency Board and one was granted, the attendants would have been ordered back to work under their prior contract. The board's decision, however, would not necessarily end the dispute. The board would take 30 days to review the issues and offer recommendations. The two sides could then take another 30 days to ponder the suggestions, after which they could reject the proposal and start another strike.
Although the mediation board was the starting point of separate news conferences by American and its attendants yesterday, each side also used its meeting to flex its muscles in the test of wills.
Mr. Crandall suggested that the flight attendants' strategy of striking for only 11 days would backfire to some degree, despite the fact that American will be unable to train new recruits in time to replace the striking attendants. Specifically, he said American planned to operate with at least 4,000 fewer flight attendants by the time the strike ends. Although roughly that many are not working now because of leaves of absence and vacations, the 4,000 posts would be eliminated based on seniority.
"Everybody is not coming back to work, in any case," he said.
The flight attendants countered that they have received promises from American's pilots and mechanics unions that they would not work with permanent replacements. That warning raised the specter of more labor strife even if the flight attendants end their strike next Monday as scheduled.
The company and the union have offered differing estimates of the walkout's impact. The union says the strike is being honored by at least 95 percent of the flight attendants, while Mr. Crandall said that by yesterday more than 17 percent had returned to work.
 
A Portion of Flights
 To help ease at least some concerns of American's customers, the airline said that it now had a better idea of what it would be able to accomplish this week after being caught off guard initially by the numbers of flight attendants who joined the strike.
Passengers in different cities will see very different levels of service. At La Guardia Airport in Queens, 45 percent of the planes scheduled for the week would carry passengers, and 53 percent of the service will be delivered at Kennedy Airport, American said.
Dallas-Fort Worth, the airline's headquarters, will get 73 percent of its advertised flights. In Chicago, American will fly 12 percent of its schedule, 77 percent in Miami, 35 percent in Los Angeles, 61 percent in San Juan, 7 percent in Nashville and 9 percent in Raleigh-Durham.
 
Informing Passengers
 For those passengers who cannot be accommodated on American or other airlines, American said it would either give them a refund or honor their ticket at no charge at any time during the next 12 months, even if the ticket was bought with the understanding that it was nonrefundable.
It said that any American passenger who could not make one of the scheduled flights between Tuesday and the end of the strike next Monday would get, besides a refund, a $100 voucher for travel on American any time during next 12 months.
Mr. Crandall also said that, starting Saturday night, the airline began calling those passengers who have reservations on upcoming flights, and it is trying to give them status reports of those flights at least 24 hours before their flight departs. He added the airline could not provide this service in recent days because it did not know which flight attendants planned to strike or cross picket lines.
"We have done a much better job of keeping our passengers fully informed," Mr. Crandall said.
 
Customer's Complaint
 At least one American passenger said he wished American had had better information about its flights.
Andrew Plesser of Great Neck, L.I., said yesterday he booked a flight 10 weeks ago to leave last Saturday morning to St. Thomas for a vacation with his wife and two children. He was told by his travel agent Friday that the flight was scheduled to leave as planned. He checked himself Friday night and learned that the flight was canceled.
He then rescheduled to go to San Juan on a flight that was supposed to leave yesterday morning at 9:20 A.M. He called Saturday night to confirm, and again at 6 A.M. yesterday morning. He and his family took a taxi to the airport, only to be met curb-side at the airport by an American employee who told them the flight was canceled.
"The children were crying and it was a very disappointing experience for all of us," Mr. Plesser said.
Although thousands of passengers are facing similar disappointment, there may be some consolation after the strike ends, or perhaps before. Some industry analysts have speculated a fare war may in the offing.
"Obviously this strike is going to take its toll on the company's earnings," said Julius Maldutis, an airline analyst at Salomon Brothers. "Whether there is a settlement or there is no settlement, American will most likely offer deeply discounted fares to win the customers back."
The strike has cost the airline at least $10 million per day, Mr. Crandall said. He also said it would create a loss for the year, a year in which it was expected to turn its first profit since 1989.

GRAPHIC: Photo: American Airlines passengers waiting to check in yesterday at Miami International Airport. The company refused to agree to emergency mediation to end the strike by flight attendants, apologized to customers and restated the economic pressures it said were forcing it to let the strike continue. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC; ASSOCIATION OF PROFESSIONAL FLIGHT ATTENDANTS AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (92%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC; ASSOCIATION OF PROFESSIONAL FLIGHT ATTENDANTS NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; STRIKES; LABOR; ARBITRATION, CONCILIATION AND MEDIATION; DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION) AIRLINES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); STRIKES (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); THANKSGIVING (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); 

PERSON: CRANDALL, ROBERT L; BRYANT, ADAM BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1993



609 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania stand to reap tens of millions of dollars from a revamping of the Government survey from which unemployment rates are calculated. [Page A1.] While the rest of the New York regional economy remains bogged down, Fairfield County, Conn., appears to be coming to life again. [B1.]
Consumer spending has become the main source of economic strength. Some economists say pent-up demand is so large that satisfying it could bolster the economy into the mid-1990's. [D1.]
 

International
Four European airlines called off merger talks, citing irreconcilable differences over what strategy to adopt in the U.S. The four carriers -- Swissair, SAS, KLM Royal Dutch and Austrian Airlines -- said that even after seven months of discussions they continued to hold "fundamentally different views" over what U.S. carrier should be chosen as a partner. [D1.]
Europeans are debating the merits of a four-day workweek. Proponents say a shorter week will create millions of jobs. [A1.] Many U.S. unions back reduced workweeks, but employers have been stretching workers' hours. [A6.]
The U.S. is protesting what it sees as a Japanese plan to weaken copyright protection for computer programs and help Japanese companies catch up in the software business. [D2.]
 
Companies
American Airlines rebuffed a request by striking flight attendants for emergency mediation to help settle their strike. [A8.]
Flight attendants say they are striking not so much over pay or benefits or grinding schedules, but because of the little things that they say amount to a lack of respect. [A1.]
 
The Media Business
PC Magazine is one of the great publishing success stories of recent years, despite an editorial diet rich in computer jargon and technical acronyms. [D1.]
The personal passions of Ted Turner have resulted in an ambitious multimedia programming initiative at Turner Broadcasting, built around the history and culture of American Indians. Bill Carter: Television. [D14.]
Investors in Paramount may learn this morning how a Delaware court plans to rule in the takeover battle waged by Viacom and QVC Network. [D15.]
Canal Plus, a French pay-television company, is providing a day of programming for the TV station of the New York City Board of Education. [D14.]
National Public Radio programs like "All Things Considered" are being offered to much of Europe. [D14.]
Straight Arrow Publishers is becoming Wenner Media, as of today. It will still publish Rolling Stone and other magazines. [D14.]
Proof that winter is around the corner: fur is flying everywhere from the first national campaign ever produced by the Fur Information Council of America. Advertising. [D15.]
 
Today's Columns
It is hard to tell whether All-Pro Products' amazing attraction to investors reflects the popularity of Lawrence Taylor, the New York Giants star, or the excesses of a bull market gone wild. Or it may be a little of both. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D1.]
A new rule restricting political contributions from the municipal bond underwriting business, which is taking final shape with the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, will make clear that the restrictions cover consultants hired by the firms. Jonathan Fuerbringer: Credit Markets. [D1.]
A trademark announced last month for Shaquille O'Neal, the Orlando Magic basketball star, lists nearly 200 products that he may license. Other trademarks provide a hedge for future products or advertising campaigns. Sabra Chartrand: Patents. [D2.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (63%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%); NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (51%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: QVC INC (63%); AUSTRIAN AIRLINES GROUP AG (56%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%); VIACOM INC (52%); WENNER MEDIA LLC (51%); NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO INC (51%); NEW YORK GIANTS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS AIRLINES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WORK WEEK (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (87%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (85%); JOB CREATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); TAKEOVERS (75%); PUBLISHING (71%); MERGERS (70%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (70%); NATIVE AMERICANS (69%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (67%); COPYRIGHT LAW (66%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (65%); PUBLIC RADIO (60%); COPYRIGHT (51%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (51%); 

PERSON: JANN WENNER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1993



610 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Ukraine's Hedging on A-Arms Angers Russia

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Nov. 21

 BODY:
Russia has reacted angrily to Ukraine's partial and highly conditional ratification of a major nuclear-arms treaty, saying Ukraine's decision to retain 58 percent of its 1,650 warheads could destabilize "the entire system of international relations, especially in Europe."
The decision, made by Ukraine's Parliament on Thursday, was also a severe embarrassment to the Clinton Administration, which has thus far failed to persuade the Ukrainians to abide by their President's commitment to become a non-nuclear state. 
 Ukraine is the world's third-largest nuclear power, although its missiles and warheads are said to be under the control of the Russian Strategic Rocket Forces, which alone can launch them.
 
Parliament Sets Conditions
 In the Parliamentary vote, lawmakers ratified the 1991 Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, known as Start 1, but set strict conditions, including security guarantees and additional foreign aid of $2.8 billion to $5 billion, according to Ukrainian officials. Parliament also refused to keep President Leonid M. Kravchuk's promise, made in 1992, to join the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty as a non-nuclear state, citing the need for a deterrent against Russia.
President Kravchuk criticized Parliament, saying in a statement this weekend that Ukraine should get rid of weapons "we cannot use or fully control." He said he would resubmit the entire issue to a new Parliament due to be elected on March 27, and he accused the West of lacking the will "to act together with Ukraine in the period leading up to ratification."
Parliament has retreated a long way from Mr. Kravchuk's commitments. The lawmakers interpreted Start 1 to mean the destruction of only 36 percent of Ukraine's 176 intercontinental missiles and 42 percent of its approximately 1,650 warheads. The West has interpreted compliance as the destruction of all 130 six-warhead SS-19 missiles, which would leave Ukraine with 46 modern SS-24 missiles and an estimated 416 warheads on bombs and cruise missiles.
Still, Mr. Kravchuk called the vote "an important first step" toward disarmament.
In Washington, the State Department reacted with quiet exasperation, saying in a statement on Friday that the Ukraine's decision could "seriously delay" or even block enactment of Start 1. Until that pact is in effect, a sweeping follow-up that would cut United States and Russian nuclear arsenals by two-thirds is dead.
Western diplomats here were more scathing, saying Washington was "becoming fed up with Ukraine" because Mr. Kravchuk had not lobbied more vigorously on the issue. The diplomats added that severe pressure on the Ukrainian economy could destabilize politics even further, strengthening those who want to use the weapons to "blackmail" the West for aid.
Russia's Foreign Minister, Andrei V. Kozyrev, in a blunt statement on Saturday, said, "This is creating an extraordinarily serious situation for the entire system of international relations, especially in Europe." Mr. Kozyrev said Ukraine's decision was "very disturbing" because it raised questions about all arms-reduction agreements.
 
Speaking in Defense
 The Ukrainian Ambassador in Washington, Oleh Byelorus, told the Itar-Tass news agency today that the vote "is explained by the fact that Ukraine, as a new, independent state, faces unique problems."
Prime among them, he said, is the threat to sovereignty posed by those in Russia who refuse to recognize Ukraine's ownership of Crimea, for example. For Ukraine, he said, the weapons serve as "a powerful means of deterrence" against Russian attempts to raise territorial claims against Ukraine.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA; UKRAINE UKRAINE (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; TREATIES; STRATEGIC ARMS REDUCTION TREATY; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MILITARY WEAPONS (94%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1993



611 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: European Airlines End Talks

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 21

 BODY:
Just seven months after embarking on ambitious negotiations aimed at a merger, four European airlines called off their talks today, citing irreconcilable differences over what strategy to adopt in the United States.
The four international carriers -- Swissair, Scandinavian Airline Systems, KLM Royal Dutch Airlines and Austrian Airlines -- had sought to establish a jointly owned company to integrate their routes, eliminate overlapping sales forces and become more competitive in an increasingly difficult global airline market. 
 But after a meeting today in the Netherlands, the airlines issued a statement saying they had terminated their talks. They said the decision stemmed from the fact that "the airlines continue to hold fundamentally different views over a U.S. partnership."
 
 
Unable to Agree
 KLM had insisted that its partner in the United States, Northwest Airlines, in which KLM holds a 20 percent stake, should be chosen. But Swissair, which owns 5 percent of Delta Air Lines, had argued that Delta would be a stronger partner. S.A.S. also has an American alliance, with Continental Airlines.
"Notwithstanding the fact that satisfactory progress was made on other major issues, the partners unfortunately had to conclude that the selection of a U.S. partner could not be made," the statement said.
In Minneapolis, Northwest's president, John Dasburg, said that "other prospective members were not prepared to participate in a partnership in which the KLM-Northwest alliance might provide the center of gravity."
The clash underscored the increasingly global nature of the airline business. Clearly, the four potential partners in the proposed European venture believed the alliance would not succeed without a strong and unambiguous alliance with an American company.
The idea of bringing two American carriers into the consortium was considered but rejected, executives said.
 
Partnerships Seen as Essential
 Partnerships between European and American carriers have increasingly come to be regarded as essential to greater efficiency, lower prices and smoother connections on trans-Atlantic travel. These regional links have also been a focus of the airline policy set forth by the American Transportation Secretary, Federico F. Pena.
British Airways, the largest and most successful airline in Europe, has a 24.6 percent stake in USAir. Other European carriers are scrambling to strengthen their positions ahead of full European deregulation planned for 1997 that would allow, for example, the German airline Lufthansa to fly between Paris and London, a route currently dominated by French and British carriers.
It was not clear what pressure, if any, Delta, Northwest or Continental had put on the four European airlines to insure that they were not dropped in the proposed merger, which was code-named "Alcazar," after the Spanish-Moorish word for a four-sided fort.
Under the proposal disclosed in April, Swissair, S.A.S. and KLM would each have owned 30 percent of the new carrier and Austrian Airlines 10 percent. The four airlines, which would have had combined annual sales of about $13 billion and a 20 percent share of the European market, are all traded on European stock exchanges, but are partly owned by governments.
The abandonment of the talks left open the question of what new alliances, if any, the four airlines would pursue.
All four are considered among the best-run European carriers, but, in the view of several analysts, they lack the critical mass to be truly effective in the evolving world airline market. KLM had previously sought a merger with British Airways, but those talks collapsed over an ownership dispute.
 
 
Air France's Losses
 Air France, which is state-owned, had said it would lose more than $1 billion this year and recently backed down in a clash with employees over proposed layoffs. It is desperately seeking a new plan to cut its large losses.
Lufthansa, after severe losses last year, has recently returned to profitability, but is also looking to shore up its position before European deregulation takes effect. Alitalia of Italy has also said it will consider an alliance, and it is known to have held talks with Air France.
Aside from the increasing competition in Europe, and the effects on air travel of a long recession, European carriers have been involved in an ever-tougher price war on trans-Atlantic routes as the three big American airlines -- American, United and Delta -- increase their services to Europe.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Executive's Role
 By Bloomberg Business News
 COPENHAGEN, Nov. 21 -- Jan Carlzon, a former chief executive of Scandinavian Airlines System, said today that he would not return to the airline that he ran for 12 years. Mr. Carlzon stepped down from S.A.S. in September to work on putting together the so-called Alcazar partnership, the proposed merger of S.A.S. and three other European airlines that was scrapped today.
Mr. Carlzon said that he did not know what he would do next. "I'm less worried about my own future than I am about the future of the airlines involved," he added.
Jan Reinas, who replaced Mr. Carlzon in October as S.A.S.'s chief executive, said he would continue with cost-cutting measures.
 Tage Andersen, the chairman of S.A.S., said the company would not rule out job cuts as a way to save money.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); UAL (NYSE) (91%); LHA (FRA) (84%); AF (PAR) (58%); AF (AMS) (58%); LCC (NYSE) (58%); SAS NOK (OSL) (58%); SAS (STO) (58%); SAS (CPH) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (92%); AUSTRIA (90%); FRANCE (86%); GERMANY (78%); NETHERLANDS (73%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (86%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

COMPANY: SWISSAIR; SCANDINAVIAN AIRLINES SYSTEM (SAS); KLM ROYAL DUTCH AIRLINES; AUSTRIAN AIRLINES DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (91%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (84%); AUSTRIAN AIRLINES GROUP AG (58%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (58%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (58%); SAS AB (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SWISSAIR; SCANDINAVIAN AIRLINES SYSTEM (SAS); KLM ROYAL DUTCH AIRLINES; AUSTRIAN AIRLINES

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (92%); AUSTRIA (90%); FRANCE (86%); GERMANY (78%); NETHERLANDS (73%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (86%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES AIRLINES (92%); MERGERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); SALES FORCE (71%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER JOHN H DASBURG (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1993



612 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: For Bradys, A Gamble On Gun Bill Pays Off

BYLINE: By KAREN DE WITT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 21

 BODY:
On the morning after, James Brady slept in. But his wife, Sarah, was up and reveling in the late-night Saturday turnaround victory in the Senate for the gun-control measure that she and her husband had labored to pass for more than five grueling years.
"It was like a Dewey-Truman story," Mrs. Brady said in a telephone interview this morning. 
 Mrs. Brady's reference to Harry S. Truman's remarkable eleventh-hour comeback victory over Thomas E. Dewey in the 1948 Presidential election was apt. The bill had been pronounced dead on Friday -- and again as late as Saturday afternoon -- by both lawmakers and analysts. Then it suddenly was revived in a legislative and emotional roller-coaster ride for the Bradys.
The signs for the legislation had been positive this year, and the bill passed the House on Nov. 11. But the Bradys said that all last week, while awaiting Senate action, they had been had been feeling "lurkey," a Bradyism that rhymes with "turkey" and means an ice-water feeling in the heart.
 
A Tumultuous Week
 "It's just been a week of so many highs and lows," Mrs. Brady, who heads Handgun Control Inc., a national organization of gun-control advocates, said this morning. Her husband was still asleep, recuperating from a late-night news conference with Senator Howard O. Metzenbaum, a strong supporter of the Brady bill.
The bill is named for Mr. Brady, the former Presidential press secretary who was critically wounded in the 1981 assassination attempt on President Ronald Reagan. He has had to use a wheelchair ever since.
The Brady bill would require a handgun buyer to wait five working days while the dealer checked whether the person was eligible to own one. Current law prohibits the sale of firearms to felons, fugitives, the mentally incompetent, minors, drug and alcohol abusers, and illegal immigrants.
 
A Change in Climate
 It was probably a changed social and political climate as much as anything that allowed the bill's passage. Since Mrs. Brady began to lobby for a gun-control law seven years ago, there has been an explosion of gun-related violence in the nation. Legislators are now more sympathetic to gun controls than in the past, particularly in light of recent polls that indicate crime and violence have become the top concern of Americans, ahead of the economy and unemployment.
Even so, for weeks before the votes in Congress, the Bradys pitched phone calls with the intensity of combat soldiers, shoring up supporters and wooing fence sitters. But the Bradys have not been simply lobbyists; rather they have been crucial strategists in the gun-control movement. This morning Mrs. Brady was savoring one of several gambles they took -- the decision to strip the Brady bill out of the overall crime package in which it had been trapped for several years.
That shift let the Senate overwhelmingly approve a $23 billion anti-crime package on Friday that bans assault-style firearms and provides money to help local governments hire 100,000 new police. It also allowed the Brady bill to be separated from controversies within the crime bill and to stand or fall on its own merits.
 
Taking the Hard Way
 "It just feels so good to know that the legislative strategy of keeping the bill separate worked," Mrs. Brady said. "A lot of people thought we should have taken the easy route and put it in the crime bill, but that would have made it too easy for our opponents. We felt strongly that the American public, which supports this bill, ought to have the chance to see who was opposed to it."
On another tactical question, one House member said that during the crucial last minutes of the vote last week James Brady argued persuasively that backers of the Brady bill should support it, even though the bill that emerged included an amendment that would cause the legislation to expire after five years.
"Jim's argument was persuasive that we should vote for the bill with the amendment," said Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn. "He said we've got to keep this alive, even if it has parts we don't like."
The Bradys' bleakest moments came on Friday and Saturday, when it seemed that they would see a repeat of 1991, when the bill, then part of an anti-crime package, failed. On Friday, proponents twice failed by three votes to get the 60 required to cut off a Republican filibuster.
At a Saturday afternoon press conference, Mrs. Brady blamed Senator Bob Dole, the Republican leader, and the "N.R.A. Republicans" for the slim hope of getting the bill passed.
"I'm just really angry this time," Mrs. Brady said in a later interview. She said that gun-control advocates had the votes to pass the bill this year, but that Mr. Dole had made the bill an issue of party solidarity instead of one of public safety.
In the end, party solidarity broke.
 
'Full-Court Press'
 "I think the country was ripe and wants this badly," said Mrs. Brady, who attributed the filibuster to the National Rifle Association's "full-court press the last couple of days."
The Bradys believe that the measure's five-day waiting period can help slow the proliferation of guns. They argue that even a superficial background check, for instance, would have warned a Texas pawnshop owner that John Hinckley Jr., the man who shot Mr. Reagan and Mr. Brady, had recently been arrested for trying to carry a shotgun aboard an airliner.
Mrs. Brady became involved in the fight to control handguns before her husband did, but not as an immediate consequence of Mr. Brady's shooting.
In 1985, while the Bradys were visiting her husband's hometown, Centralia, Ill., their son Scott, then 5 years old, crawled into a family friend's pickup truck and spied what he took to be a plaything on the seat. It was a gun.
 
'Don't Do That, Scott'
 When he picked it up and pointed it at his mother, who also thought it was a toy, as she climbed in beside him, she recalled admonishing him: "Don't do that, Scott. Don't ever point a gun at anyone, even a toy."
Then she realized it was a gun -- a loaded, .22-caliber pistol, like the $29 gun Mr. Hinckley had used four years earlier to shoot her husband.
"My blood just boiled," said Mrs. Brady. "My husband had been shot, and here my child was with a gun."
Mrs. Brady said she picked up the phone, called Handgun Control Inc. and has been passionately involved ever since.
"I thought, 'We've got to go on the offensive,' " she said in a recent interview.
"And you got fairly offensive," quipped her husband.
 
Formidable Opponents
 In the years since that jarring experience with their son, Sarah and Jim Brady, who is vice chairman of the National Organization on Disability, have emerged as formidable opponents of the N.R.A. And the Bradys will not disappear from the fray even after the legislation they have championed becomes law.
"We've got a full agenda," said Mrs. Brady, speaking about her organization, which offers an education program for young people on gun violence and is pressing to reform the procedures for licensing gun dealers.
Illustrating how simple it is to become a legal dealer in firearms, Mr. Brady told some recent visitors, "If you've got 10 minutes and $10, we could make you all dealers."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sarah Brady on the phone with Senator Nancy Landon Kassebaum last week as Mrs. Brady lobbied for passage of the gun-control bill that she and her husband, James S. Brady, have promoted for over five years. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: BRADY CENTER TO PREVENT GUN VIOLENCE (55%); BRADY CENTER TO PREVENT GUN VIOLENCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BRADY CENTER TO PREVENT GUN VIOLENCE (55%); BRADY CENTER TO PREVENT GUN VIOLENCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: FIREARMS; GUN CONTROL; LAW AND LEGISLATION GUN CONTROL (94%); FIREARMS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%); VIOLENT CRIME (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); ASSASSINATION (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); FELONIES (62%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (50%); 

PERSON: BRADY, SARAH; DEWITT, KAREN; BRADY, JAMES RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1993



613 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1498 words

HEADLINE: In Fairfield County, Small Companies Renew Job Base

BYLINE: By TOM REDBURN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn., Nov. 16

 BODY:
When Robert Thomson set up a computer software company a dozen years ago, he placed it here, near what he hoped would be his prime market: the Fortune 500 companies that flocked to this leafy suburb after leaving gritty New York. For much of that time Mr. Thomson's IMRS Inc. thrived along with those mammoth companies.
These days, though, as companies like General Electric, Union Carbide, and Champion International have undergone painful layoffs, IMRS continues to expand and prosper. 
 After three relocations within Stamford, the company, which began with a handful of workers, now employs about 450 people. And rather than cutting back, IMRS is still expanding its work force at the rate of 20 to 25 percent a year. It already threatens to outgrow the space it leased just two years ago.
Those gains are beginning to pay off on a wider scale. While the rest of the New York regional economy remains bogged down, Fairfield County appears to be coming to life once again. This time, though, it is not the lumbering elephants, but companies like IMRS -- younger, nimbler and more willing to take risks -- that are leading the way. In fact, several other young companies, like the rapidly growing Oxford Health Plans of Norwalk, have already become major employers.
Statistics suggest that a turnaround has begun in Fairfield County. Housing permits are up 36 percent as of September 1993, compared with a gain of 7.6 percent for Connecticut as a whole. Retail sales rose almost 10 percent in the first few months of the 1993, versus a decline in the Hartford area and more meager gains elsewhere.
 
Renewed Fairfield County
 More important, about 40,000 more people say they have jobs now than said so at the end of 1992, even though major employers are still shaving payrolls. Most of the newly employed apparently joined recently established companies or went into business for themselves.
For much of the New York metropolitan region, the lesson is becoming clear: Rather than continuing to chase the big-name businesses that once provided secure employment, the region must increasingly count on vigorous smaller companies to rebuild its shrunken job base.
The old days are fading fast. Fairfield County -- even more than surrounding areas like Westchester County and northern New Jersey -- long ago staked its economic future on the security offered by the large, well-established corporations that found its safe, woody atmosphere so appealing. Those prospects no longer look so comforting.
"We've been a headquarters-driven economy, so the downsizing of corporate America has been particularly acute for all of us," said Christopher Bruhl, president of the Business Council of Southwestern Connecticut, speaking of the entire New York region.
"In Fairfield," he said, "a more diversified local economy is coming to our rescue. As the national economy slowly improves, our growth is being generated from a variety of smaller, newer sources, not just one or two big engines."
Except for one or two major corporate relocations -- the Witco Corporation and Dun & Bradstreet being the principal examples -- almost all the companies acquiring office space in Fairfield County in the last few years have been relatively modest in size. And in contrast to the 1970's and 80's, a significant number are homegrown.
Such major employers as U.P.S. and Bowater have recently abandoned the area. Even so, office vacancy rates, while still high at roughly 20 percent, are finally starting to drop.
Connecticut's Gold Coast entered the recession early as Wall Street hunkered down after the October 1987 stock market crash and the commercial real estate market across the nation collapsed. Bolstered by renewed prosperity in the financial industry and an avoidance so far of the huge blows suffered elsewhere by military contractors, the county is outpacing other parts of the region.
 
Lessons for Others
 Admittedly, Fairfield is different. Its entrenched wealth and reputation as a cushy WASP haven insulated it from the worst ravages of the economic downturn in the Northeast. The area, says Edward Deak, an economist at Fairfield University who provides the Connecticut forecasts for the New England Economic Project, is also "more national and international in its business outlook."
Still, the emergence of vigorous new enterprises here holds important lessons for other parts of the New York region. Westchester, for example, will continue to suffer shocks from the retrenchment of I.B.M. With the end of the cold war, Long Island can no longer depend on Grumman and related defense businesses. In Connecticut, the insurance industry centered around Hartford is most likely to experience the same type of downsizing and corporate "re-engineering" that has already hit banking.
"Our classic economic base is maturing," said Joseph J. McGee, Connecticut's economic development commissioner. "We need to encourage a new, more entrepreneurial base."
Independent analysts support those views.
"Different places within the vast New York economic complex will have different destinies," said Mitchell Moss, director of the Urban Research Center at New York University. "But one thing that unites them all is that they are going to be much more dependent on the dynamism of smaller, more creative companies if they are to flourish."
IMRS, which produces sophisticated financial management software for use on networks of personal computers, starkly illustrates the point. Indeed, as big companies have sought to cut costs, IMRS has been one of the chief beneficiaries of the drive for savings.
"Our clients are big, multinational firms with more than $1 billion in sales," said James A. Perakis, IMRS's president and chief executive officer, who joined the company in 1985. "As they started to look for ways to cut back, one of the first targets they focused on was their costly mainframe computers and the extensive data processing departments that ran them."
IMRS software helps fill the void. In the midst of the recession, its revenues have jumped from $12 million in 1989 to $61 million for the fiscal year that ended last June. It now has about 1,300 corporate clients and is adding customers at the rate of 300 per year. More than a third of its sales are abroad, mostly in Europe.
Few other software companies are around. Despite the isolation, Mr. Perakissaid he was committed to remaining in Fairfield County.
"There isn't a local talent pool of computer scientists, but it is not a problem finding good people," he said. "This is a very nice place to live for white-collar workers." The corporate atmosphere is informal and most employees are relatively young. An attractive profit-sharing plan means that not many are tempted to leave. Some of the professionals at IMRS even live in Manhattan and reverse-commute, most by train, to Stamford.
The company is already starting to look for a new building in the area with space for at least 500 employees. Mr. Perakis said the campus-like working environment so popular in suburban office parks was vital. "We are not a 9-to-5 business," he said. "If someone, male or female, works on a project until 9 or 10 at night, I want to be sure they can safely walk to the parking lot and drive home."
Oxford Health Plans, which runs an unconventional managed health care network in the New York region, provides another example of the area's shifting economic fortunes. Founded by Stephen F. Wiggins in 1984, when HMO's were widely disdained here, the company's membership rolls have soared from just 11,000 in 1987 to more than 200,000 today. Aimed at small business and professionals as well as the Medicaid population, it is the fastest growing health plan in metropolitan New York.
Mr. Wiggins, 37, is a transplant from Minnesota, where HMO's are extremely popular. He moved to the area a decade ago to work as a Wall Street investment banker. After just three months, he quit.
"I hated the commute," he said. "The truth is I started the company because I wanted to find a way to work close to home."
As managed care has gained adherents in the New York region, Oxford has added jobs rapidly. In less than a year, it has gone from about 350 employees to 700.
But high wage rates, expensive housing costs and relatively low unemployment make it more difficult to recruit employees for an array of basic service jobs. Nor has Oxford, even with a generous profit-sharing plan, had much success recruiting seasoned executives from big companies willing to start over at a lower salary.
"We rely mostly on very young managers," Mr. Wiggins said. "The corporate types often are unable to reboot to a new system."
For all the difficulties, though, Mr. Wiggins remains convinced that his business belongs here, close to his customers. "When we drove out here from Minneapolis, my wife cried all the way to Chicago," he said. "I promised her we wouldn't become Easterners. But I guess maybe we have."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "We rely mostly on very young managers," said Stephen F. Wiggins, who founded the Oxford Health Plans in 1984. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (84%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD HEALTH PLANS ORACLE CORP (84%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); CHAMPION INTERNATIONAL CORP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: OXFORD HEALTH PLANS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FAIRFIELD COUNTY (CONN) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LAYOFFS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); RETAIL SALES (50%); 

PERSON: REDBURN, TOM; WIGGINS, STEPHEN ANN LIVERMORE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1993



614 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: METRO MATTERS;
After Wagner's Death, A City's Hope Darkens

BYLINE: By Sam Roberts

 BODY:
FRANK E. HORNSBY JR., deputy executive director of the San Antonio Housing Authority, explained the other day how programs begun under Senator Robert F. Wagner's New Deal legislation were being adapted to today's needs.
"At Alazan-Apache Courts, a 1,000-apartment project built in 1940, we've just begun a family self-sufficiency program," he said. "To get in, people have to sign a five-year contract to get training or education to get a job. They pay rent up to 30 percent of their income. Eventually they own their own unit. 
 "Here the density of public housing is all low-rise -- mostly two-stories -- for families. For the elderly, we built a high-rise in 1965 and from the git-go we contracted with private agencies to provide social services, a nutrition program and meals."
On San Antonio's west and south sides, a coalition of 28 congregations has, according to its lead organizer, Sister Pearl Ceasar, "basically changed the political face of San Antonio." Also the physical face. The 20-year-old organization, Communities Organized for Public Service, has helped bring $750 million in public works to low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, housing, job training and an educational partnership that guarantees high school graduates a scholarship to local colleges.
Robert F. Wagner Jr., the Senator's grandson, was visiting San Antonio last weekend to study those programs for a book he was writing with Julia Vitullo-Martin. He was contemplating the future of American cities. But immobilized by a severe flu, he never left his hotel room. He died a week ago at 49, leaving the future to others.
Mr. Wagner inherited from his father, a three-term Mayor of New York, an appreciation for the democratic process as a brake on precipitate decision-making. To be sure, he was a procrastinator. But he also believed that the best response to some problems is to let them percolate and eventually solve themselves.
For America's cities, though, the threats were too daunting, and time was too short. Failed approaches needed to be re-evaluated or discarded. Successes needed to be replicated.
"He believed that we are in a footloose information economy with profound implications for the cities," said Ms. Vitullo-Martin, his collaborator on the book and who, with her husband, visited San Antonio's urban innovations while Mr. Wagner was ailing.
"The criteria by which people decide where to live are going to change," she said. "All the quality-of-life issues which may have seemed minor in prior years are tremendously important. Cultural factors -- opera, ballet, publishing -- are one of the things that cities have to offer. City governments have to keep their taxes competitive. That isn't determined only by their needs but by what other jurisdictions are charging. Bob was grappling with that a lot and Rudy Giuliani is going to have to grapple with that a lot, too."
Mr. Wagner, who was a deputy mayor, chairman of the City Planning Commission and president of the Board of Education under Mayor Edward I. Koch, was poised to play such a role in the Giuliani administration. It might have been even larger, because he was Mr. Giuliani's contemporary and because the gaps are greater around a Mayor-elect who has never held elective office and lacks the institutional memory and sagacity that Mr. Wagner embodied.
"He was doing some conceptual adventuring for the book," said his mentor, Dr. Julius C. C. Edelstein, the vice chancellor emeritus of the City University of New York. "For Giuliani, he was invited to be, and was prepared to be, a major intellectual resource. There is no one else even remotely able to fill that role."
Mr. Wagner, said Henry Stern, another close friend, "would have been Giuliani's Talleyrand."
Mr. Wagner's optimism had waned since 1987, when he capsulized the report of his Commission on the Year 2000 in its title: "New York Ascendant." Since then, he and Ms. Vitullo-Martin wrote, "While the urban crisis has its harrowing aspects, today's is not the crisis described in the 1960's and early 1970's. Apocalypse is not the danger; the danger is an ongoing gradual decline worsened by general national indifference."
The three critical challenges for Mr. Giuliani, Mr. Wagner wrote, are: "New Yorkers desperately want a sense that the city has a future. New York City government has to be restructured if it is to provide adequate services and live within its means. And all New Yorkers have to feel part of the process."
A pivotal number of New Yorkers probably were swayed to vote for Mr. Giuliani on the strength of Mr. Wagner's endorsement, delivered persuasively in a television advertisement as he struggled for the words to justify his defection from the Democratic Party.
"I'm not sure we would have won without the combination of him and Koch," said David Garth, Mr. Giuliani's media strategist. "Bobby's commercial gave Koch's credibility."
Now, some New Yorkers who voted for Mr. Giuliani on Mr. Wagner's advice may feel deprived. With victory, the dominant emotion was supposed to have been hope as a new administration dawned. Instead, it is mourning in New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); CITIES (86%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); FAMILY (78%); CITY LIFE (74%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); POLITICS (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); BALLET (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (53%); NUTRITION (53%); 

PERSON: WAGNER, ROBERT F JR; ROBERTS, SAM; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1993



615 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: Consumers Spur the Economy

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Consumer spending has become the principal source of strength for the economy lately. And even though it is a cautious sort of spending, coming mainly from people who had postponed big purchases since the 1980's, some economists say the "pent-up demand" is so large that satisfying it could bolster the economy into mid-decade.
Unlocking the demand has taken a while, in the face of continued layoffs and widespread uneasiness over job security. But increasingly, consumers have ventured again into the marketplace, mainly to make big purchases: homes, cars, refrigerators and other appliances and furniture. 
 "What is going on now is a change in the willingness of people to buy," said Richard T. Curtin, director of the University of Michigan's Consumer Research Center. "Anxiety over jobs has tempered their buying. But low interest rates and falling prices have made consumers believe that now is a good time to buy."
 
 
Shopping Bias
 As the Christmas season approaches, American shoppers are displaying a distinct bias. While their spending is growing at a faster rate, on average, than their incomes, the rate of consumption has been pulled up mostly by people who are finally replacing old cars and by young families buying and furnishing their first homes, in the belief that mortgage rates and home prices may be at or near the bottom.
Retailers report heavy traffic in shopping malls and stores in recent months, but actual outlays for clothing, toys, cosmetics, books and a great variety of other "soft goods" have not shown much increase, according to Commerce Department data.
Consumer spending began to rise, slowly at first, in the summer of 1992. That was when the recovery from the last recession took hold, said Robert Wescott, a senior economist on President Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers. "Consumer spending gets delayed until people really believe a recovery is in progress," he said.
But the new consumption is not showing up evenly across the population. Much of the buying involves higher-income households, earning more than $40,000 a year, often from two earners who have reduced old debt and can borrow again, said Florence Skelly, vice chairman of DYG, a market research firm. By comparison, the median income of all American households is $28,000.
Mr. Curtin added that many of these buyers had loosened up in the belief that the economy was no longer in immediate danger of a new recession that would bring more layoffs.
Some, including Edward A. Brennan, chairman of Sears, Roebuck & Company, give partial credit to the Clinton Administration for the rise in buying. "The new Administration is very active, and that activity has released some energy among the public," said Mr. Brennan, who describes himself as a staunch Republican. "There is much more traffic in the stores."
Reflecting these currents, outlays for personal expenditures -- not only merchandise but also a great variety of services -- rose by $261 billion from July 1992 through last September, while income available to spend rose by $222 billion, the Commerce Department reported. The great thrust of the spending was for cars and for all the appliances, furniture and electronic gear that go into newly built or purchased homes.
"We are finally seeing this pent-up demand come forth," said Stephen S. Roach, senior economist at Morgan Stanley & Company. "People perceive that the economic recovery has stuck, although it is a sluggish one. They don't have the incomes to support heavy spending, but they are drawing down savings, refinancing homes at lower mortgage rates and taking profits from mutual funds and the stock market to make purchases."
With this cash, as well as new installment loans, car and truck sales have risen to an annual rate of 14.5 million, higher than at any time since the 1980's, but still below the 15 million units that the auto industry considers an "average" year and below the record 16.3 million in 1986. About 25 percent of these sales are in the form of leases, an increasingly popular purchase method that allows the cautious buyer to avoid a large down payment.
Feeding these sales is the average age of the autos and trucks owned by Americans: a record 8.1 years, compared with 5.6 years in the 1970's.
More than six million vehicles are owned by people who have postponed the purchase of a new car, and now some of those people are buying and more are likely to do so in the next year or two, said Wynn Van Bussman, a Chrysler Corporation economist. But the purchases are coming mostly from people with incomes above $40,000, according to Mr. Van Bussman. People earning less are increasingly more reluctant to buy, reflecting their insecurity about jobs.
 
 
Sharp Contrast
 Similarly, as home sales rise, spending for the appliances, furniture and furnishings that go into homes has jumped by more than 10 percent in the 12-month period that ended in September. That is in sharp contrast to outlays for services like dry cleaning, haircuts, lawyers and entertainment. They remained almost unchanged from the previous one-year period. And spending on clothing in the latest year grew at only half that rate.
Home sales are not included in the Commerce Department's personal consumption data, but single-family- home construction in the third quarter reached its highest level since 1986. Home sales are rising as young families migrate from renting to ownership.
"This activity is not dependent on job growth, and that is of key importance," said David F. Seiders, chief economist at the National Association of Home Builders. "You are talking about people who have jobs and who have been sitting in rental housing, waiting for the right moment to buy."
Low mortgage rates have stimulated the market, and if they should rise, that might cut activity, Mr. Seiders said. Administration officials agree. They argue that low rates have been the critical factor in the entire revival of consumer spending. The hope is that consumer spending will generate more jobs to supply the purchasing, and as employment rises, there will be more consumers with higher incomes.
 
 
'Start of the Process'
 "It is typical of recovery periods that consumption runs ahead of income growth," said Alan Blinder, a member of the President's Council of Economic Advisers. "That can't happen forever, but it is the start of the process."
Mr. Van Bussman offers a slightly different view: Low interest rates on loans are only part of the story. They have been low in the past, without raising sales. That is partly because 14 percent of all car sales are to people over 65. For some of them, who are retired, the benefits of lower loan rates are offset by less income from interest payments on their investments.
What's more, as car sales rise, Mr. Blinder's job-creation cycle might kick in only slowly. As Chrysler, for example, made its factories more efficient, employment declined to 89,196 people in March from 91,491 in September 1992. Since March, Chrysler has been adding third shifts and hiring, but has added only a net total of 772 people -- still below the 1992 level.
"Where the hiring should come is in companies that supply us, but we don't know yet if that is happening," Mr. Van Bussman said.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Overall Gains . . . " shows personal consumption spending and personal disposable income in '92 and '93.; ". . . Led by Cars" shows spending on cars and car parts, furniture and household equipment and clothing and shows in '92 and '93. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (61%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); RECESSION (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (79%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (79%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (79%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FAMILY (78%); HOME PRICES (75%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (75%); COSMETICS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); MORTGAGE RATES (68%); CHRISTMAS (53%); MORTGAGE LOANS (51%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS BILL CLINTON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1993



616 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: Head of Dance Group to Receive Cultural Honor

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
Mayor David N. Dinkins today will bestow New York City's highest cultural honor on Arthur Mitchell, the founder, artistic director and president of the Dance Theater of Harlem.
Mr. Mitchell, 58, who is also to receive the Kennedy Center Honors on Dec. 5, is 1 of 13 people, including the playwright August Wilson and the philanthropist Brooke Astor, who will be recognized by the Mayor in an awards ceremony at Gracie Mansion. 
 A protege of George Balanchine and star of the New York City Ballet, Mr. Mitchell left that company in 1968 to form his own group. The Dance Theater of Harlem quickly became recognized as one of the world's premier dance troupes. In the last year, the group has staged a comeback from a financial crisis that saw it lay off much of its staff for six months in 1991.
Mr. Mitchell will receive the Handel Medallion, which was created after a 1959 festival marking the 200th anniversary of the composer's death. Past recipients include Marc Chagall, Benny Goodman, Sidney Poitier, Isaac Bashevis Singer and John Lennon. Recipients from the dance world have included Martha Graham, Alvin Ailey, Agnes de Mille and Robert Joffrey.
Mrs. Astor will receive the Eleanor Roosevelt Medallion, given since 1984 to recognize work in the field of human rights.
Mr. Dinkins will present the Mayor's Award of Honor for Arts and Culture to Mr. Wilson; Louise Bourgeois, a sculptor; Rene Buch, artistic director of the bilingual theater company Repertorio Espanol, and Gilberto Zaldivar, the company's producer; Irene Diamond, president of the Aaron Diamond Foundation, a philanthropy; John Duffy, president and director of Meet the Composer, which awards musical grants; Moe Foner, director of the Bread and Roses Cultural Project of the Drug, Hospital and Health Care Employees union; Robert Kotlowitz, senior fellow of the Freedom Forum Media Studies Center at Columbia University, and John Kwo Wei Tchen, the director of the Asian-American Center at Queens College.
The Mayor's Award was initiated in 1976, and recipients are chosen by the city's Advisory Commission for Cultural Affairs.
The Mayor will give a special award to George Seuffert, leader for more than 60 years of the George Seuffert Band, which is known for its free concerts in public parks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS DANCE (93%); DANCE COMPANIES (91%); THEATER (90%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); CHARITIES (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); BALLET (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); MULTILINGUALISM (73%); DRAMA LITERATURE (72%); WRITERS (72%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (72%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (54%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ARTHUR; ASTOR, BROOKE; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD ARTHUR ADAM MITCHELL (94%); BROOKE MARSHALL ASTOR (72%); AUGUST WILSON (72%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (57%); EDDIE GEORGE (57%); JOHN WINSTON LENNON (55%); ISAAC BASHEVIS SINGER (55%); MARC CHAGALL (55%); BENJAMIN DAVID 'BENNY' GOODMAN (55%); MARTHA GRAHAM (55%); ALVIN AILEY (55%); ROBERT JOFFREY (55%); SIDNEY POITIER (55%); LOUISE BOURGEOIS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1993



617 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: Advertising;
Protesters scoff as the fur industry begins a national campaign.

BYLINE: By Michael Janofsky

 BODY:
WINTER is coming. If you cannot tell by the temperatures, check out all the magazines and television stations advertising fur coats. Fur is flying everywhere, from the first national campaign ever produced by the Fur Information Council of America.
The $1.25 million campaign includes full-page, color presentations in a variety of national publications, including Vogue, Vanity Fair, Town & Country, Harper's Bazaar, Essence and Newsweek, and television commercials in 70 cities. 
 The overt message is a simple one: Fur is back as a fashion statement; faux furs are faux pas. Implicit are the more subtle factors that reflect an improving economy, the repeal last summer of a 10 percent luxury tax on items that cost $10,000 or more and a gamble by the industry that fur is politically safe again.
"We're up," said Etta O'Sullivan, a spokeswoman for Flemington Furs in Flemington, N.J., referring to the company's advertising budget this year. "And so is everybody else in the industry."
But talk about flying fur. Behind the models, stylish furs, lavish settings and stronger budgets is the simmering battle between the fur industry and animal rights activist groups like the Fur-Bearers in Vancouver, British Columbia, people who not only do not buy furs, but also do not buy the argument that the industry is all that robust.
Protest groups say that the council's advertising campaign is nothing more than propaganda aimed at convincing the public that furs are fashionable again after several seasons in which retailers pushed faux fur as an alternative.
"Just a marketing gimmick," Cathy Liss, the executive director of the Animal Welfare Institute in Washington, said of the current industry campaign. "It's an attempt to pull the market out of the dumps."
That argument, in turn, draws fire from fur industry officials who contend that the protesters can only perpetuate their own existence by protesting. "There's a consumer backlash against them," said Karen Handel, a spokeswoman for the council. "People are tired of their antics."
Around and around it goes, with each side offering statistics to verify and quantify its position. Ms. Handel said the council, which represents 50 retailers in the United States, 2 fur auction houses and a group of Scandinavian fur producers, only embarked on the current advertising campaign because business had improved.
"We can't make up the sales figures," she said.
The campaign was devised by Steve Gold Inc., an agency in New York. Steve Gold, president of the agency, said that in addition to the campaign being the biggest ever from the council, it represented the first time various factions of the industry have united to promote themselves.
Would that not represent, at least in part, a political response by the industry against charges by the protest groups of inhumane treatment of animals?
"No, no," Mr. Gold said. "This is totally driven by marketing strategy. The fur industry has seen an improvement in sales at retail. If that wasn't the case, you would never have seen this campaign. Seeing the light at the end of the tunnel has made this possible."
Sales figures collected by the council show that a four-year downward trend from 1987, when sales reached $1.8 billion for a second consecutive year, began to turn around last year. In 1992, sales grew by 10 percent, to $1.1 billion, and the council said it expected that figure to improve this year.
But some of the protest groups said they wondered how that was possible. The Animal Welfare Institute and the Fur-Bearers, among others, contend that the number of animals trapped had declined in recent years -- to fewer than 7 million last year, from 28 million a decade ago, said Michelle Clausius, the executive director of the Fur-Bearers.
To those organizations, fewer pelts mean fewer products. "The numbers speak for themselves," Ms. Clausius said of the figures for trapped animals. "That kind of decrease hardly constitutes a comeback."
And the bleat goes on. On Sept. 30, eight members of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, including Kate Pierson of the B-52's rock group, were arrested after they marched into the offices of Vogue magazine and pasted anti-fur stickers on the walls. The model Christy Turlington recently posed for a billboard in the nude behind a sign that says, "I'd rather go naked than wear fur."
This Friday, the group plans several activities in New York, including an anti-fur parade.
"I'm so sick of what's politically correct or not correct," said Ms. O'Sullivan of Flemington Furs. "We still get protests, but I think the public refuses to take it any longer."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Despite opposition from humanitarian groups, the Fur Information Council of America has begun a $1.25 million advertising campaign. (Fur Information Council of America)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC2371 FUR GOODS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (55%); 

CITY: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (55%); 

COMPANY: FUR INFORMATION COUNCIL OF AMERICA FUR INFORMATION COUNCIL OF AMERICA (91%); ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FUR INFORMATION COUNCIL OF AMERICA ANIMAL WELFARE INSTITUTE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (55%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (55%); 

SUBJECT: FUR; ADVERTISING; CRUELTY TO ANIMALS MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); ANIMALS (71%); AUCTIONS (69%); RETAILERS (69%); ANIMAL WELFARE (68%); ANIMAL ABUSE & NEGLECT (66%); EXECUTIVES (63%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1993



618 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1680 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
PC Magazine Is Mirroring an Industry's Success

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
No one could accuse PC Magazine of talking down to its readers.
Twice a month, the magazine serves up an editorial diet rich in computer jargon and technical acronyms. Readers squeamish about descriptive passages loaded with "GUI accelerators" and "Type 3 bitmaps" are well advised to go elsewhere. Its stock-in-trade is comparative product testing, sometimes more than 100 offerings in an issue, each graded, measured and charted, page after page. Even its editors call it a "nerd's magazine." 
 Clearly, PC Magazine is not for everyone. Yet its seemingly parochial focus on the innards of personal computers has proved a winning formula and given it a surprisingly large audience, making it one of the great publishing success stories of recent years.
The magazine's circulation has nearly doubled in the last five years, to more than one million, and advertisers have flocked to it in droves. Its issues average 500 pages, bloated with ads.
 
 
$281 Million in Revenues
 Last year, PC Magazine was the ninth-largest magazine in the United States in revenues, which were estimated at $281 million -- way ahead of mainstream business magazines like Business Week, Forbes and Fortune. The annual calculations, by Folio magazine, are not exact, mainly because of the widespread practice of offering advertisers discounts from the standard page rates. But analysts say PC Magazine's size and leadership in the industry are not in doubt.
The rise of PC Magazine since its founding in 1981 reflects the explosive growth of the personal computer business, from its garage-shop origins little more than a decade ago to a $70 billion-a-year industry today.
"The success of PC Magazine shows that there are vast numbers of people who are deeply interested in this technology," said Michael J. Miller, the magazine's editor in chief. "And people need help in trying to keep up with it, because the personal computer business is the fastest-moving industry that the world has ever seen."
So far, industry changes have worked to the advantage of PC Magazine and the other computer magazines. Computer Publishing and Advertising Report, a newsletter in Wilton, Conn., estimates that ad revenues in the flourishing field have increased 90 percent in the last five years.
Leading personal computer makers, like International Business Machines Corporation, Compaq Computer Corporation, Apple Computer Inc. and Dell Computer Corporation, have taken turns in going through tough times in the price wars of recent years. Yet in good times and bad, they have had to keep advertising to fight for sales.
With computers on virtually every office desktop, the number of people making their own decisions about what model to buy has soared, and many of them are regular computer-magazine readers.
"The trade magazines have an enormous influence on people's buying decisions," said Ray Freeman, a vice president of the IBM Personal Computer Company, who oversees its advertising programs.
The big winners have been the two private companies that dominate the computer publishing field, the Ziff-Davis Publishing Company and International Data Group. Besides PC Magazine, the leading Ziff-Davis titles are PC Week, Computer Shopper, PC Computing and Macweek. The top publications in the International Data Group stable include PC World, Macworld, Computerworld and Infoworld.
 
 
Two Wealthy Rivals
 The boom in computer magazines has certainly enriched the two men who own the rival publishing groups. William B. Ziff Jr., who earlier this month retired as chairman of Ziff Communications Company, the corporate parent of the publishing company, is worth roughly $1.5 billion, Forbes magazine estimated. In its most recent list of the 400 richest people in America, Forbes estimates that Patrick J. McGovern, the chairman of International Data Group, was worth $500 million.
Yet if the history of the computer industry is any guide, no franchise is assured. Any business that does not adjust quickly to change is headed for trouble, a fact of life in the computer industry that should apply as much to publishers as to manufacturers.
And the publishers do face challenges: slower growth this year, a broadening of the computer market to less-sophisticated home users and technological changes ranging from big shifts in computer use to the challenge of electronic publishing in a market whose young, affluent and technologically savvy readers should be the first to embrace electronic distribution.
 
 
The Strong Get Stronger
 The slower growth caused by a soft economy and a consolidation among personal computer makers, analysts say, is winnowing some of the 300 computer magazines and newspapers as advertisers become more selective.
"But the strong publications are getting stronger, and that trend should continue," said Sheila Craven, president of Adscope Inc., a research firm in Goldendale, Wash., that tracks high-tech advertising.
In the first nine months of this year, for example, PC Magazine's total ad pages slipped more than 2 percent, to 5,005 pages, but its ad revenues increased more than 9 percent because of higher prices, Adscope estimates. For the 12 leading forums for computer advertising, ad pages increased 2 percent and revenues rose 14 percent in the nine months, according to Adscope.
Still, even Ziff-Davis has not been immune to the slowing of growth in the industry. Last June, it shut two magazines, PC Sources and Corporate Computing. PC Sources, a monthly started in 1990, was directed at the mail-order computer business. Once a specialized niche, the mail-order business has become mainstream, with I.B.M., Compaq and others shipping computers directly to customers who typically order by calling "800" phone numbers. The market no longer required a specialized mail-order magazine, Ziff-Davis executives said.
Corporate Computing was an ambitious Ziff-Davis effort to move beyond its traditional strength in personal computers into industrial-strength computing, which might include mainframes, minicomputers and work stations, as well as PC's working in tandem.
 
 
From the Technical to the Silly
 Started in June 1992 and called "The Magazine of the Re-engineering Age," the monthly was praised even by rivals for its editorial quality. It was aimed at a more general audience of managers and addressed big technical subjects like moving off mainframe computers and using electronic mail systems. John Cleese, the English comic actor, wrote an irreverent column on management.
A year later, Ziff closed the magazine. "We underestimated the speed at which corporate computing was decentralizing and moving to the desktop," said Ronni Sonnenberg, president of Ziff-Davis publications in America.
In short, the Ziff explanation is that the market was moving into its bailiwick -- the desktop world -- even faster than it had imagined.
At International Data Group, however, the failure of Corporate Computing is viewed as evidence that Ziff will have trouble moving beyond its mainstay, magazines that cater to the stand-alone desktop market. Companies increasingly want their computers, large or small, linked by sophisticated networks that let workers anywhere in the world work in teams. International Data has more publications that focus on big corporate computing and, with publications in some 60 countries, it has a stronger international stance than Ziff.
"The computer industry is going global and toward enterprisewide computing," said Kelly Conlin, president of International Data's marketing services division. "The market is moving our way."
 
Power to Influence Consumers
 Perhaps. But PC Magazine still commands the attention of today's biggest computer-literate audience, and product judgments made in its Manhattan offices can sway sales trends in the industry. Slender, bespectacled and intense, Mr. Miller, the 34-year-old editor, is an unabashed enthusiast of the technology his magazine promotes.
"I love computers," he said. "I live for this stuff -- I admit it."
The magazine pioneered the use of comparative product testing in personal computers, and its continuing edge in giving readers head-to-head product ratings explains its top spot among computer magazines. Its multimillion-dollar testing lab is behind glass doors, filled with rows of modern gray tables that house 68 work stations for putting every imaginable variety of machine and software program through its paces. Each product is tested according to scripts that run 20 to 200 pages, to make the trials as accurate and consistent as possible.
 
 
'It's Nerds' Disneyland Here'
 "It's Nerds' Disneyland here," observed Jay Munro, a project leader at the testing lab.
Like many of his 110-member staff, Mr. Miller has thoughtful views on broader subjects like the role computers will play in the coming information highway or the way technology is changing work patterns. None of this is likely ever to appear in PC Magazine.
"We're not a reporting organization or a news operation," he explained. "It's the lab-based product testing that makes PC Magazine what it is."
PC Magazine's leading rival, PC World, a monthly owned by International Data, takes a somewhat different approach -- less technical and intended for a more general management audience.
"Our readers don't really care about the underlying technology," said Philip Lemmons , the editor in chief of PC World. "They want to know what they can grab and get immediate benefit from."
PC World's audience is also a large one, with a circulation of more than 900,000. And its research shows that three-fourths of its readers do not read PC Magazine.
Over the last year or so, PC World has done general articles on problems in the industry, like a lengthy piece on repetitive stress injuries suffered by keyboard users and an article on fraud by some mail-order computer marketers.
"Most industry magazines haven't written about things that might inhibit people from buying PC's," Mr. Lemmons said. "But we've done critical stories."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "The success of PC Magazine shows that there are vast numbers of people who are deeply interested in this technology," said Michael J. Miller, editor in chief of PC Magazine. He sat in the offices at 1 Park Avenue. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times) (pg. D1); "Our readers don't really care about the underlying technology," said Philip Lemmons, editor in chief of PC World, based in San Francisco. "They want to know what they can grab and get immediate benefit from." (Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times) (pg. D14)
 
Graph: "Leading Computer Magazines" shows the average circulation for June issues of the flagship titles from the two leading publishers of consumer magazines about personal computers, Ziff-Davis Publishing Co.. and International Data Group from '88-'93. (Sources: Business Publications Audits of Circulation; Audit Bureau of Circulatories) (pg. D14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%); DELL (NASDAQ) (84%); HPQ (NYSE) (62%); IBMC (BRU) (62%); IBM (NYSE) (62%); IBM (LSE) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (75%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: PC MAGAZINE APPLE INC (84%); DELL INC (84%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (62%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: PC MAGAZINE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); PERSONAL COMPUTERS PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (73%); PRICE CUTTING (65%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE; MILLER, MICHAEL J ANN LIVERMORE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1993



619 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 3; Society Desk

LENGTH: 157 words

HEADLINE: Betsy Garrison, Avery L. Krut

 BODY:
Betsy Garrison, a vice president for Lowe Direct, a New York-based advertising agency, and Avery L. Krut, a partner in Catalyst, a company that designs and manages economic redevelopment projects, were married yesterday. Both work in Los Angeles. Rabbi Harlan J. Wechsler performed the ceremony at the Manhattan Penthouse in New York.
Mrs. Krut, 43, the daughter of Charles C. Garrison of Falls Church, Va., and the late Janice White Garrison, graduated from Roanoke College. Her father is a senior accountant for the Student Loan Marketing Association, the Federal loan program known as Sallie Mae, in Washington. 
 Mr. Krut, 33, the son of Rabbi Chaim Krut of Flushing, Queens, and the late Esta Elstein Krut, graduated from Queens College, from which he also received a master's degree in social research. His father, who is now retired, was a budget administrator for the service departments of New York City Technical College.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Betsy Garrison (E. J. Carr)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SLM (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ROANOKE, VA, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: SLM CORP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ROANOKE, VA, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (88%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (87%); STUDENT LOANS (86%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (86%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); 

PERSON: GARRISON, BETSY (BETSY KRUT); KRUT, AVERY L.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1993



620 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: A Dangerous Deficit Bill

 BODY:
The House votes today on a superficially seductive bill that would knock about $100 billion off the deficit without raising taxes. No wonder its sponsors -- Timothy Penny, Democrat of Minnesota, and John Kasich, Republican of Ohio -- are close to attracting enough votes to pass their bill.
But Congress would do grave damage if it passed the Penny-Kasich bill. Most of the cuts it proposes are needed to meet existing budget targets as well as to pay for health care reform and the Administration's strategy of investing in education, training, research and infrastructure. So if the bill passes, Congress will be forced to hit the higher deficit targets by making additional cuts elsewhere, shredding, for example, an already-tattered safety net for low-income families. 
 Congress already faces a disheartening need to cut discretionary programs. Even if it threw President Clinton's entire investment plan into the garbage heap, Congress would still have to cut $15 billion in discretionary spending over four years to meet the deficit targets adopted last summer.
Putting back the Administration's investment program raises the total to $50 billion. And last week, the Senate passed an expensive crime bill that would up the ante by $20 billion. That means Congress must find some $70 billion over four years to meet its existing deficit target before it can even begin to consider raising those targets.
The Penny-Kasich bill would pile on more problems. About $30 billion of its cuts are in discretionary spending -- cuts that could have been used to make up the shortfall. And the bill proposes $20 billion in cuts the Administration was already counting on to hit existing targets. By diverting these funds to pay for additional deficit reduction, the bill would make Congress's task that much harder. Congress would be forced to trim programs that Mr. Penny and Mr. Kasich didn't dare to touch -- such as those focused on the poor.
There's also an ominous problem with their proposed entitlement cuts of $50 billion, mostly in Medicare. Mr. Clinton has proposed more than $100 billion in Medicare cuts himself to pay for his health care reform. If the Penny-Kasich bill claimed the money, it would go for deficit reduction instead -- forcing Mr. Clinton to attach a huge tax hike to his health bill. Bye-bye health reform.
Mr. Penny and Mr. Kasich deserve praise for identifying sensible, even courageous ways to cut spending, each of which would hurt a special interest. Their bill would rein in agriculture subsidies, prune Congressional retirement benefits, raise the retirement age for Federal employees and eliminate the Interstate Commerce Commission and other outdated agencies.
But the responsible way to proceed isn't to pass the bill. Congress has already adopted rational deficit-reduction targets. And they are strict. The targets require, for example, that nondefense discretionary spending -- everything from the F.B.I. to national parks -- be held constant, after accounting for inflation, over the next four years.
First, Congress needs to make enough cuts to hit those targets. Then it needs to cut further to pay for vital initiatives like health care reform, crime prevention, education, worker training and scientific research.
Only after doing that would it make sense for Congress to choose whatever is left of the Penny-Kasich cuts for additional deficit reduction. High jumpers clear the cross bar at low heights before raising it another notch or two. So should Congress.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; EDITORIALS; FEDERAL AID (US) LEGISLATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); TAX LAW (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); FAMILY (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%); MEDICARE (65%); CIVIL SERVICES (62%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (62%); RETIREMENT AGE (62%); AGRICULTURE (50%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: PENNY, TIMOTHY (REPR); KASICH, JOHN (REPR) JOHN KASICH (90%); BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1993



621 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
The Three Clintons

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Last week, we saw three Bill Clintons in action: the thin-skinned politician, the maturing President and the simplistic pitchman.
It began with an outburst of self-pity. At the end of an interview with William Greider and Jann Wenner of Rolling Stone magazine, a Clinton nettled by questions about his ideological firmness blew up: 
 "I have fought more damn battles here for more things than any President has in 20 years," he blustered, "with the possible exception of Reagan's first budget, and not gotten one damn bit of credit from the knee-jerk liberal press, and I am sick and tired of it, and you can put that in the damn article."
Warming to his whining, he boasted of his early leftward lurch: "Look what I did. I said the wealthy would have to pay their fair share, and look what we did to the tax system. . . . Did I get any credit for it, from you or anybody else?" He then switched from Johnson Treatment to Nixon self-delusion: "Do I care if I get credit? No."
Oh, but he cares so much: "And you get no credit around here for fighting and bleeding. And that's why the know-nothings and the do-nothings and the negative people and the right-wingers always win. Because of the way people like you put questions to people like me."
So shut up, you radic-libs; your mean questions are making your only President blubber all over his new Oval Office carpet.
After this puerile display of petulance, a quite different Clinton made his appearance. As a Roosevelt Roomful of media biggies gathered for a Nafta-eve briefing, the President seemed to just wander in before the Administration briefers.
His easy command presence made you feel that a pro was in charge of the country. When his aides came in (on cue, but seemingly late) he mock-chastised them for keeping us heavy hitters waiting: "You mean you let these guys talk to each other?"
Clinton then sat down for 10 minutes of serious questioning on Chinese trade and human rights, explicating policy with sophistication. He knew he had Nafta's passage in his pocket, the result of wheeling and dealing in the grand tradition. He would use this victory to impress the Asian leaders in Seattle and -- as part of a "triple play" -- use the North American and Asian groupings to leverage a lowering of European tariffs.
That was impressive. The second Clinton had a foreign economic strategy, the support of Republicans, and was prepared to risk the wrath of Labor in leaning on Democrats to stick in his linchpin. His underrated White House armtwisters -- the firm of Daley, Emmanuel & Paster -- delivered for him.
But then, in Seattle, yet another Clinton emerged.
To deal at the highest level with China after Tiananmen Square, three great facts must be understood. First, China and the U.S. share an interest in stopping nuclear spread, especially to the rogue regime in North Korea. Second, China's economic boom depends on continued U.S. purchases. Third, the next generation throughout Asia looks to us to induce Beijing to let its new economic freedom spill over into political rights.
However, asked about resuming summit relations without some progress on human rights in return, Clinton's sloppily prepared answer was: "I don't think that you ever lose anything by talking to someone, as long as you're honest."
What simplistic nonsense. In diplomacy, "talking to someone" -- especially after a crushing of democracy -- has a great value to the ostracized perpetrator. When the Soviets sought a summit with Nixon in the 70's, Henry Kissinger made them pay a price in prepared concessions before a meeting. Jimmy Carter could not condone the invasion of Afghanistan by "talking to someone." Not even Sinophile George Bush could instantly resume regular relations after Tiananmen.
If Clinton was determined to make a pre-emptive concession, he could have said: The time was ripe to express my conviction -- face to face with Chinese leaders -- that free markets go hand in hand with human rights.
At least that would have dealt honestly with reality and offered hope to dissidents. But in his eagerness to avoid offending the sensibilities of the Chinese president, the third Clinton -- naive or deceptive -- insulted the intelligence of every American.
Whining, inspiring, oversimplifying -- which Clinton will emerge next year?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROLLING STONE MAGAZINE (58%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; TREATIES EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); LIBERAL MEDIA (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (68%); BASEBALL (67%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (62%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (62%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ROSENTHAL, A M JANN WENNER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1993



622 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: Why Small Powers Also Deserve Respect

 BODY:
To the Editor:
W. Anthony Lake, the President's national security adviser, has appealed to opinion makers and Congress to keep making a distinction between the immediate and the important when dealing with the "less strategically significant questions" of small countries that are ripping themselves apart like Somalia and Haiti. He might also include Angola, Armenia, Bosnia and others. 
 The distinction between the immediate and the important incorrectly associates the security issue of small nations in internal turmoil with the immediate but unimportant, compared with "the most fundamental questions" of areas of greater strategic importance to us, like Russia.
In an American policy of engagement, based on democratic principles and pragmatic application of American power, there is no escaping responsibility for the security problems of small countries. The big strategic issues will be those like demilitarization of Russia and countering strategic weapons proliferation from China. But democratization and defense of more than 100 small countries are issues of the first magnitude.
Small country security issues are of first importance to the security of most large countries, particularly when the small countries ripping themselves apart are on the borders of the large countries and involve ethnic or religious groups. Don't forget that most of the great power wars were initiated by disputes in small states within their competing spheres of influence -- Bosnia in 1914, Czechoslovakia in 1938, Korea in 1951, Kuwait in 1990.
The best efforts of the nuclear powers at counterproliferation of weapons of mass destruction are unlikely to be completely successful in denying desperate small countries, rich drug cartels and crime syndicates access to nuclear weapons.
The increasing number of small country security crises affecting the national security of the great powers means that there must be a wider choice of policy options than costly and often futile armed intervention or withdrawal into military and economic isolationism.
Fortunately there are examples of small countries that have successfully resolved their internal conflicts and defended their independence against much stronger neighbors without themselves becoming threatening to others. Slovenia, Finland, Switzerland and Costa Rica are such good examples. Perhaps Estonia and Israel soon may be.
The Clinton Administration cannot evade or postpone responsibility for a viable and consistent foreign policy and security strategy concerning small country conflicts by arguing that policies concerning great powers are more strategically significant. An effective foreign and defense policy will regard both as important and address both seriously and simultaneously.
 
CLARK ABT
Director, Defense Technology Conversion Center, Boston U.
Cambridge, Mass., Nov. 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); HAITI (92%); CHINA (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (78%); ESTONIA (71%); FINLAND (51%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); HAITI (92%); CHINA (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (78%); ESTONIA (71%); FINLAND (51%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (73%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (68%); RELIGION (66%); CARTELS (65%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (64%); ORGANIZED CRIME (64%); 

PERSON: ABT, CLARK HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1993



623 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: Provide Work Again In New York City Parks

 BODY:
To the Editor:
New York City's parks offer a challenge for Mayor-elect Rudolph W. Giuliani and his new commissioner of parks: Put maintenance first. Hire the unemployed. Make parks labor-intensive. Provide work for all. 
 The most urgent need in our parks today is to make parks labor-intensive, to put men and women on the grounds, whom the public will see and respect. These workers must also be supervised by men and women working on the grounds. Nothing like that has happened for years.
To make parks labor intensive will not only improve the maintenance of our parks, but will also help New York maintain its position as a great tourist center. Perhaps most important, it will increase public safety, the major concern throughout our city.
In a very real sense the Parks Department increasingly has a dual role, not only to maintain the parks, but a social responsibility to give employment to men and women, unskilled, untrained and uneducated, who have no possibility of gainful employment in the private sector or in any other public agency.
Many of these, in fact, are the very people who built our parks a century ago.
 
ROBERT MAKLA
Brooklyn, N.Y., Nov. 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (93%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); WOMEN (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; MAKLA, ROBERT RUDY GIULIANI (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1993



624 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

 METRO DIGEST
 
GOOD NEWS ON UNEMPLOYMENT SPENDING
New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania stand to reap tens of millions of dollars from a revamping of the Government survey from which unemployment rates are calculated, according to Federal and state officials. The extra money would result mainly from the states' greater share of the billions of Federal money spent on training, job placement and various other programs tied in some way to the severity of unemployment in a state or locality. Since the total pool of aid is more or less fixed, other states would lose. New York might also gain disproportionately from an extension of emergency unemployment benefits, which are triggered by rate of unemployment. A1.
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
CABDRIVER KILLINGS LEAVE EMPTINESS
Rene Rodriguez, who is 7 years old and proud of learning to rhyme words, insists that he does not keep going to the window to look for a father who never comes. His 10-year-old sister says he does. When the father died behind the wheel of his livery cab in central Harlem in March 1992, he left behind a wife and three children and not much else. He was one of 186 cabdrivers killed in the last five years. The fundamental equation is that $75, the average take in a livery cab robbery, is worth a driver's life to the ones who kill them. But to the families of those slain, almost always poor immigrants, the loss is incalculable. A1.
 
ANOTHER OFFICER COMMITS SUICIDE
An off-duty New York City police officer killed himself in an Atlantic City hotel, the eighth to commit suicide this year, the police said. The dead officer, Frank Astralla, 24, was a three-year veteran assigned to the 104th Precinct in Woodside, Queens. His suicide was the fourth by a uniformed member of the New York Police Department since Oct. 30, which has prompted Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly to call for increased suicide efforts. B3.
 
GIULIANI GIVES SOME SUPPORT TO MAYOR
After a week of jousting between Mayor David N. Dinkins and his successor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, the Mayor-elect offered a bit of an olive branch to Mr. Dinkins, saying that he was willing to support the Mayor "in any tough decisions" so long as "problems not be made worse." Mr. Giuliani also gave his support to the Mollen Commission, formed to investigate police corruption. But he reiterated his request for the Dinkins administration to refrain from making long-term deals before leaving office, referring specifically to contract talks with the city's sanitation workers. B3.
Thirteen people, including Arthur Miller, head of the Dance Theater of Harlem, and the philanthropist Brooke Astor, will receive New York City's highest cultural honor. B6.
The death of Robert F. Wagner Jr. deprives Mayor-elect Rudolph W. Giuliani of an important voice on urban issues. Metro Matters, B3.
 
REGION
 
AIDE ATTACKS ROLLINS'S CLAIMS
The campaign aide responsible for building support for Gov.-elect Christine Todd Whitman among minority voters has vehemently denied Edward J. Rollins's account of a conversation they had about countering Democrats' efforts to gain the support of black ministers. The aide, Lonna Hooks, said she was never told to offer the ministers any money or to suggest what they should say from the pulpit. Instead, she said, her efforts to win black voters to Mrs. Whitman involved bringing Mrs. Whitman to meet black community leaders and ministers and arranging for her to talk with delegates to the annual meeting of the N.A.A.C.P. During this time, she said, the Florio campaign was largely ignoring black voters and their concerns. A1.
 
ADOPTIVE PARENTS SHARE EXPERIENCES
Six years ago, Lisa Kearney wrote down on a slip of paper the reasons why she could not keep her son, to remind herself in moments of weakness. "I wasn't ready," she said. Her child's adoptive parents could offer him many opportunities, she felt. Such exchanges of curiosity and experience were the purpose of the 13th annual conference of the Adoptive Parents Committee, which drew 2,000 people to the State University of New York at Purchase. Adoptive parents and those who thought they wanted to be shared their experiences and talked about the hardships and joys of the adoptive process. B4.
Chronicle B6
 

CORRECTION-DATE: November 23, 1993, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An entry in the Metro Digest yesterday for an article about cultural awards to be presented by Mayor David N. Dinkins misidentified the head of Dance Theater of Harlem in some editions. He is Arthur Mitchell, not Arthur Miller.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); SUICIDE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); MAYORS (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (85%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (76%); FAMILY (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); DANCE (71%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (67%); CORRUPTION (60%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1993



625 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1574 words

HEADLINE: Touching Nerves in Newsrooms;
Resignation Reflects Vulnerability to Claims of Bias in Coverage

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WILLINGBORO, N.J., Nov. 16

 BODY:
The resignation of William Newill was only sketchily mentioned last week in the pages of The Burlington County Times, the suburban daily newspaper where he had been editor for nine years.
Behind the bland announcement was a story that touches nerves in many American newsrooms. On one level, it is about white editors of small newspapers who run stories critical of local black officials. On another, it is about the vulnerability of these editors to charges of bias in their coverage because they have no black editors or reporters on their small staffs.
 
Absences Criticized
 It all started in late September when the 40,000-circulation afternoon paper published a front-page article about Assemblywoman Priscilla B. Anderson, a black Republican whose district covers western Burlington County, across the Delaware River from Philadelphia. 
 Under the headline "Dems Hit Anderson for School Absences," the article followed up on assertions by Democrats that she had missed 59 working days in one school year at her $50,000-a-year job as a high school guidance counselor in Trenton to spend time on her $35,000-a-year role as a freshman legislator. An editorial several days later took Mrs. Anderson to task for "double-dipping at the taxpayers' expense" and called for a change in a 1966 law authorizing unlimited paid leave for legislators who work for the public schools.
Some black civic leaders in Willingboro, where blacks make up about 60 percent of the 36,000 residents, cited the article as representative of what they called the newspaper's negative portrayal of blacks. They suggested that bias among its editors was reflected in the all-white composition of the news staff.
The Rev. Morris Baxter, the pastor of the Cathedral of Love in Willingboro, who is black, said he was convinced that the original article about Mrs. Anderson was intended "to scandalize the reputation of the only black woman in the Legislature."
"They wouldn't print it if it was against a white man," he said.
At a rally on Oct. 23 attended by 250 blacks, a boycott of the paper was proposed and subscription cancellation forms were distributed. Mr. Baxter did not say how many people took part in the boycott, but he said it was effective in forcing Mr. Newill's resignation.
 
A Defeat and Its Aftermath
 Mrs. Anderson and other Republican candidates in the legislative district, nominally a Democratic stronghold, lost the Nov. 2 election, and there were more suggestions among some local blacks that she had been done in by The Burlington County Times's decision not to endorse her candidacy on its editorial page.
Mr. Newill said he took the heat as part of the price of covering a hard-fought political campaign. But he was not prepared for what happened next.
Sandra C. Hardy, a co-owner of the Calkins Newspapers of Levittown, Pa., which owns The Burlington County Times and five other suburban newspapers in Pennsylvania and Florida, arranged for a peacemaking meeting between Mr. Newill and several black businessmen at a Willingboro restaurant on Nov. 8.
Before the meeting, Mr. Newill recalled, and in front of three black employees who work in other departments of the newspaper, Ms. Hardy upbraided the editor and instructed him to apologize to a group of blacks upset over the matter "for any misunderstandings."
Mr. Newill, 46, who had spent his entire journalistic career in Calkins newspapers, said he defended the accuracy and legitimacy of the coverage and refused to bow to Mrs. Hardy's demands. The next day, he submitted his resignation.
 
The Issue of Accountability
 "The issue was never race or gender," he said in an interview this week. "It was accountability of a public official, and public officials are not exempted from accountability because of race or gender."
He also said newspapers could not serve the public interest, including the interests of black residents, if the threat of being labeled as biased by unhappy black politicians forced editors to shelve accurate stories that reflected badly on the officeholders.
Still, as he telephoned friends in the newspaper business to check out job openings, he worried if a charge of "racial insensitivity" against a white newspaper editor was enough to doom a career.
Grover J. Friend, the president of Calkins Newspapers, said in a statement, "It is the policy of Calkins Newspapers not to comment on personnel matters."
Ms. Hardy did not reply to several telephoned and written requests for interviews.
Ms. Hardy, one of three sisters who own the chain, is one of seven members of the executive committee of the Newspaper Association of America, which represents publishers and marketing executives of 1,250 newspapers in the United States. She is also the vice chairwoman of the association's committee on diversity, a panel that encourages wider minority hiring in the industry.
 
Some Black Support
 Mr. Newill was not entirely consoled by the support of other prominent blacks in the Willingboro area who said that in his nine-year tenure as editor, The Times provided a fair and honest forum for black views.
"I haven't found them to be racially insensitive at all, and I doubt they set out to treat Priscilla Anderson any different from white politicians," said Roosevelt Nesmith, the president of the Burlington County chapter of the N.A.A.C.P. for 15 years. "I've found Bill Newill to be open and receptive to diverse views."
The Rev. Edwin Ellis, the pastor of the United Methodist Church of the Good Shepherd in Willingboro, who is black, said he has sometimes quarreled with the paper's news judgment on the types of stories placed on the front page. "But I hear white pastors at our clergy association meetings make the same comment," he noted.
So far, the news staff of The Times has been fairly mute about Mr. Newill's sudden departure. Ralph Siegel, the paper's State House correspondent, who wrote the original article on Mrs. Anderson's paid absences, said he feared the episode might have a chilling effect on future coverage. "The race card has been played to full effect," Mr. Siegel said, "and the immediate concern to me as a reporter was whether the paper was flinching in some way from its news coverage."
He and other staff members said management had assured them, however, that no change in journalistic standards was contemplated and that no groups or individuals were to be given special treatment.
 
An Ideal With Some Tarnish
 Willingboro, in the view of many who live in this middle-class township, comes close to a textbook ideal of integration. A small 300-year-old community founded by Quakers, it was briefly renamed Levittown after Levitt & Sons began building tract houses here four decades ago, causing the population to climb from 852 in 1950 to a peak of 43,380 in 1970. Black families began buying homes in the 1960's, and after initial white flight, the population stabilized. Many black newcomers hold white-collar jobs in Philadelphia, work for the state in the capital, Trenton, just 20 miles north, or are on the military payroll at the Fort Dix Army base and McGuire Air Force Base.
But some highly publicized murders involving blacks, both here and in Burlington City, have heightened tensions, including a case now being tried in the county seat, Mount Holly, in which Charles Williams, a black former convict, is accused of the execution-style killing of the manager of a McDonald's in Burlington City.
Mr. Ellis of the United Methodist Church of the Good Shepherd said the replaying of these and other negative images of blacks encouraged suspicion about the newspaper's motives. He said there was also a feeling that the story on Mrs. Anderson's dual jobs would not have run had she been a white politician. "After all," he said, "she didn't break the law."
 
Questions of Balance
 Mrs. Anderson said in an interview that she had never accused the newspaper of racism, although she acknowledged that she did not disassociate herself with those who did.
"What upset me was, the paper singled me out for criticism while it endorsed two educators running for the Legislature in other Burlington County districts who happen not to be Afro-Americans," said Mrs. Anderson, a former Mayor and Council member in Willingboro. "They did not attempt to balance the story by writing about their absentee records."
As for Mr. Newill, he acknowledged that he had not hired any black reporters or editors in recent years.
He said in his defense that budget cuts ordered by management permitted him to hire only one news staff member in 18 months, and that was a reporter he had previously laid off because of the economic downturn. He said he had attended job fairs and taken other steps to recruit minority journalists and had been constantly outbid by larger newspapers, which dangle before a talented prospect twice the $22,000 starting wage he can offer. Several black college students have worked at the paper as summer interns, Mr. Newill said, but those who stayed in journalism took jobs with city newspapers.
Neil Foote, the minority affairs director of the American Society of Newspaper Editors in Washington, said he heard from suburban editors all the time about obstacles to minority recruiting.
"For it to be successful, diversity has to be a priority set by top management," he said. "The policy and the money to implement it has to come from high up."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 25, 1993, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about the resignation of an editor at The Burlington County Times in New Jersey referred incompletely to the background of an article published there. The theme of the article was Democrats' criticisms of Assemblywoman Priscilla B. Anderson, a Republican, because of her attendance record at her job as a high school guidance counselor. The Democrats based their criticism on an article published by The Times of Trenton in June about the attendance records of Assemblywoman Anderson and other legislators who are also educators.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "The issue was never race or gender," said William Newill, a former editor of The Burlington County Times in Willingboro, N.J., who resigned last week after the newspaper's coverage was criticized as being racially biased. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times) (pg. B1); Assemblywoman Priscilla B. Anderson, a Republican who was criticized by The Burlington County Times for missing 59 working days in a year as a high school guidance counselor to spend time as a freshman legislator. Ms. Anderson is at Trenton Central High School, where she works. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times) (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (53%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BURLINGTON COUNTY TIMES CALKINS NEWSPAPERS INC (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: BURLINGTON COUNTY TIMES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); DELAWARE, USA (53%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; BLACKS (IN US); DISCRIMINATION DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); MEDIA BIAS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (68%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (54%); 

PERSON: NORDHEIMER, JON; NEWILL, WILLIAM; ANDERSON, PRISCILLA B (ASSEMBLYWOMAN)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1993



626 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Beijing Journal;
CNN and MTV Hanging by a 'Heavenly Thread'

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEIJING, Nov. 21

 BODY:
Ever since Prime Minister Li Peng signed State Council Proclamation No. 129 last month banning the purchase or possession of satellite dishes by ordinary Chinese, millions of people on the broadcasting and receiving ends of the television business in Asia have been trying to determine whether Mr. Li will risk the draconian steps necessary to enforce the order.
So far, no police officers have been sent to start ripping dishes off rooftops, but the Government is talking tough. Many in Beijing feel the Politburo has invested too much of its prestige to back down. 
 "The large majority of Beijing dish owners will have to tear their dishes down," said Wei Dangjun, a spokesman for the Ministry of Radio, Film and Television, whose Minister, Ai Zhisheng, is known for his zeal in attacking the "spiritual pollution" infecting China from the West.
"Most owners have already broken rules by installing their dishes without application," Mr. Wei said in an interview. "Those that didn't listen to orders prohibiting installation," he said, "and then didn't listen to orders to disassemble, we will punish according to relevant laws."
The most compelling test of this latest crackdown is whether it is too late. The thought-control officials in China's old guard may find that the genie of the information explosion has been out of the bottle too long.
In the Fang Village neighborhood of south Beijing, even the apartment buildings that house retired officers of the dreaded public security bureau are wired up for satellite programming from the United States, Britain and Hong Kong.
Inestimable millions of Chinese have already been swept into the information era by foreign newspapers that have arrived with the flood of foreign business people and through television programs arriving via the "heavenly thread," which is the literal translation of "satellite antenna" into Mandarin Chinese.
While there are an estimated 500,000 satellite dishes in the country, because of cable hookups on apartment buildings the Government estimates that there are 15 million subscribers to multichannel systems that import English-language programs.
 
A Sense of Crackdown
 The announcement of the ban coincided with a conference in early October on state security attended by Mr. Li and President Jiang Zemin. It concluded that "hostile forces outside our country have never stopped endangering the safety of our country" using "all means to infiltrate, split and damage us."
The ban also followed the decision of the International Olympic Committee to award the 2000 Games to Sydney, Australia, a crushing setback to the Chinese leadership.
The order banning satellite dishes contributed to a sense of crackdown in the capital this month. Two prominent journalists have been arrested: Xi Yang, a reporter for the large Hong Kong daily Ming Pao, and Gao Yu, a mainland reporter who was detained days before she was to leave for an academic year at Columbia University.
For several tense weeks, tens of thousands of Chinese who have bought the dishes from private and state-owned companies, including from the People's Liberation Army dish factory, have been hoping that this order will simply go the way of previous threats to enforce the ban.
The companies marketing the dishes have suddenly taken a low profile, though purchases are still possible, as one Beijing resident discovered last week.
"Hello, I would like to know if you still have any satellite television dishes available in your store?" the resident first asked in a telephone call.
"No, haven't you heard about the new regulations?" the clerk asked. "We're not allowed to sell them now."
The same day, the caller visited the department store and approached the salesman at what had been the satellite antenna service counter.
The man behind the counter seemed to be speaking on a different frequency. If the customer really wanted a dish, he said, it could be arranged for the equivalent of $650, including installation.
The fact that the Government is moving deliberately to enforce the ban reflects the struggle in the leadership between those who believe China should continue to open up to Western influences and those who believe China's economic boom can be sealed in a cocoon of Communist ideology.
Satellite dishes have become a way of life in China in the last two years. Even as the Clinton Administration complains that China is jamming Voice of America broadcasts, the same Chinese leaders appear helpless as millions of Chinese tune in to the Star TV network.
Star TV is the Hong Kong-based communications company that beams its five-channel menu -- including the BBC and CNN news, sports and MTV music videos -- into 4.8 million Chinese households.
In July Rupert Murdoch bought 63.6 percent of Star TV and has identified the mainland as his largest future market.
"Some leaders have installed satellite dishes with public funds," complained one Government worker who insisted on not being identified and who owns a $570 dish and receiver. "It's the authorities who have the power to do whatever they like. We are the victims."
As reported in People's Daily, the penalties for failing to take down the dishes will be anywhere from $900 to nearly $9,000. This does not include the cost of the dish, which would be confiscated.
At the ministry, Mr. Wei said he did not know when the decision would be made to start tearing hardware off rooftops.
"We await specific measures from above," he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 6, 1993, Monday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Nov. 22 about restrictions on satellite dishes in China referred incorrectly to the Cable News Network. It is not available on the Star TV Network in Asia.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some 500,000 satellite dishes in China have been illegal since Prime Minister Li Peng signed a proclamation in October. Some officials who fear that the information explosion has gone too far are pressing efforts to remove them. In Beijing, dishes dot apartment houses. (Patrick E. Tyler/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); ASIA (92%); HONG KONG (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (96%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (78%); 

COMPANY: CABLE NEWS NETWORK (CNN); MUSIC TELEVISION NETWORKS INC (MTV) COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: CABLE NEWS NETWORK (CNN); MUSIC TELEVISION NETWORKS INC (MTV)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA; BEIJING (CHINA) CHINA (97%); ASIA (92%); HONG KONG (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (96%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (93%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (78%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; GOVERNMENT INFORMATION POLICIES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA ; CENSORSHIP TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (89%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (78%); CENSORSHIP (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); CABLE TELEVISION (77%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); POLITICS (73%); ARRESTS (71%); OLYMPICS (70%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (69%); WRITERS (68%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (50%); 

PERSON: TYLER, PATRICK E; LI PENG (PRIME MIN) LI PENG (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1993



627 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-13
 
SERBIAN OUTLAW ENTERS POLITICS
Arkan, wanted for murder and bank robbery in Europe, is the newest political star in Serbia as he runs for a seat in Parliament. A1
 

Europe backed a conditional suspension of sanctions on Belgrade. A12
 
CHINESE SEEK GROWTH
Chinese authorities have apparently abandoned their five-month-old austerity drive in favor of even more economic growth, raising some concerns that the country's robust expansion may overheat. A1
 
BLOOD DONORS INFECTED BY AIDS
A test of more than 25,000 blood samples from people who donated blood to a German company suspected of distributing blood tainted with the AIDS virus concluded that two showed evidence of infection. A3
 
ELECTORAL PREVIEW IN ITALY
In 428 mayoral ballots in Italy, voters supported the neo-Fascist Italian Social Movement, the Democratic Party of the Left, which succeeded the Communist Party of Italy, or the insurgent Northern League. A3
 
U.S. TO SEEK SEOUL'S BACKING
President Clinton is to seek South Korea's support for a "new approach" to get North Korea to open its nuclear sites to inspectors. A6
 
SPY VS. SPY IN POST-SOVIET ERA
Post-Communist intrigues in Russia have turned out to reveal a distinct amateurish quality, with none of the efficiency of the old K.G.B. A6
 
Ukraine is said to have only one month of energy reserves left. A10
 
National A16-18, B8-9
 
ATTENDANTS BACK ON JOB
Striking American Airlines flight attendants planned to return to work after President Clinton took the unusual step of brokering an agreement between the union and the company to submit the labor dispute to arbitration. A1
 
MORE TROUBLE AHEAD
The walkout at American Airlines has ended for now, but experts said more labor turmoil in the airline industry is likely in the coming year and many Americans could find their travel plans disrupted. A18
 
HOUSE VOTES CAMPAIGN BILL
The House approved a change in campaign finance laws that includes voluntary limits on spending and the first public financing of Congressional campaigns. A1
 
WRAPPING UP WORK
Congress, on its last full day of work, tried to wrap up loose ends on the budget, the Brady bill and the Packwood case. B8
 
BRADY BILL'S EFFECT
News analysis: If the history of gun control is any measure, the chances are that any results from the Brady Bill, which establishes the waiting period for gun purchase, will be more modest than the bitter legislative debate suggested. B9
 
DOCTOR COMMITS SUICIDE
A Chicago doctor with bone cancer became the 20th person to kill himself as Dr. Jack Kevorkian watched. The death came two weeks after Dr. Kevorkian was bailed out of jail on charges he violated a Michigan law against assisted suicide. A1
 
SHIFT ON U.S CONTRACTS
The U.S. will stop giving millions in Government contracts to dairies and other agricultural companies caught defrauding Federal programs. The decision ends the department's refusal to go along with a 1986 Presidential directive barring companies found abusing Government programs from Government work. A1
 
REMEMBERING KENNEDY
On the 30th anniversary of John F. Kennedy's death, thousands filed quietly past his grave at Arlington National Cemetery, and the plaza in Dallas where he was shot to death was declared a National Historic Landmark. A16
 
FOOD DATA ASSAILED
A report described Government data on nutrients in food as unreliable. For an average person on a diet who is counting calories or grams of fat, or for people on low-sodium diets, the inaccuracies detailed could be a shock. A16
 
Metro Digest B1
 
BILL COLLECTING WITH A TWIST
A software designer has been arrested under a new law on charges that he infected a customer's computer system with a virus because of a dispute over money. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Science Times C1-12
 
Space-age techniques for reading the Dead Sea Scrolls. C1
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-20
 
Celebrating Segovia. C13
 
Theater: "Laughter on the 23d
Floor." C13
 
Fashion B11
 
Sports B12-18
 
Obituaries B10
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A20-21
 
Editorials
 
Controlling school violence.
 
Packwood had it right: Resign.
 
China stiffs the President.
 
In defeat, a victory for D.C.
 
Letters
 
A. M. Rosenthal: Waiting for China.
 
Russell Baker: Cunning are the rich.
 
Ernest F. Hollings: TV violence -- save the children.
 
Floyd Abrams: TV violence -- save free speech.
 
Chronicle B4
 
Bridge C19
 
Chess C17
 
Crossword C20

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); UKRAINE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); UKRAINE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GERMANY (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BLOOD BANKS (90%); POLITICS (90%); GUN CONTROL (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MURDER (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); FIREARMS (84%); ROBBERY (78%); BANK ROBBERY (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); AIDS & HIV (76%); BLOOD DONATIONS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); AIRLINES (69%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (69%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (69%); ASSISTED SUICIDE (67%); DEATH & DYING (64%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (63%); SUICIDE (62%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (60%); CANCER (60%); VIRUSES (54%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1993



628 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 259 words

HEADLINE: Europe Backs Offer to Yugoslavs

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: LUXEMBOURG, Nov. 22

 BODY:
The European Community recommended today that sanctions against Yugoslavia be suspended if it persuaded Serbian nationalists in Bosnia and Herzegovina to accept an international peace plan.
"Together with the United States, we have an understanding that this is the right approach," said Foreign Minister Pieter Kooymans of the Netherlands at a meeting of his counterparts. 
 The recommendation, which already has the conditional backing of the United States, now awaits approval by the United Nations Security Council, European Community officials said.
But Yugoslavia's Foreign Minister, Vladislav Jovanovic, called the plan "a step back" because it talks of suspending, not lifting, sanctions.
And the proposal was denounced as a "political ploy" by Momcilo Krajisnik, a spokesman for the self-styled Bosnian Serb parliament, said a report by Tanyug, the Yugoslav news agency.
 
Enticement to Yield
 The idea of easing sanctions against Yugoslavia was raised by France and Germany at a meeting of community Foreign Ministers in Brussels on Nov. 8. Under the plan, the enticement of suspended sanctions would push Yugoslavia to encourage Bosnian Serbs to yield more land to Bosnia's Muslim-led Government.
The suspension of sanctions on goods and services that have no military application is under study, community officials said. But the community will not support the final lifting of all sanctions until a peace plan is signed settling ethnic disputes across the former Yugoslavia, Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd of Britain said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); GERMANY (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; SERBIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA EUROPE (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); GERMANY (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%); 

SUBJECT: SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); APPROVALS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1993



629 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
American Airlines flight attendants returned to work after President Clinton brokered an agreement for the union and the airline to submit their dispute to arbitration. The President's involvement was the most direct step the White House has taken to influence a work stoppage since President Reagan dismissed striking air traffic controllers in 1981. [Page A1.] 
 Further labor turmoil in the airline industry is likely as big carriers seek to lower costs in the face of increased competition from no-frills upstarts. [A18.]
Sun Microsystems plans to invest $10 million in Next, the struggling personal computer company started by Steven P. Jobs, co-founder of Apple Computer. [D1.]
Dean Witter, Discover and Nationsbank will be able to sponsor a Mastercard under a settlement in which Mastercard International dropped its opposition to the plan. [D1.]
A tiny Indiana company has become the first in the West to successfully launch a Russian communications satellite. [D4.]
Prudential was sued by two more investor groups over allegations of fraud in sales of partnerships in the 1980's. [D4.]
First Chicago will buy Lake Shore Bancorp in a $323 million stock deal, its first bank acquisition in almost five years. [D4.]
Microsoft's co-founder will buy a majority of Ticketmaster, possibly creating a nationwide computer ticket service. [D4.]
Bon Marche will advertise Frangos candy in what is said to be the shortest and most expensive television commerical ever. [D4.]
A Delaware court asked QVC Network and Viacom to extend their tender offers for Paramount Communications. [D6.]
Apple Computer will enter the home-shopping market with a compact disk containing images from mail-order catalogues. [D7.]
 
The Economy
The U.S. will stop giving millions in Government contracts to dairies and other agricultural companies caught defrauding Federal programs. The decision ends the department's refusal to go along with a 1986 Presidential directive. [A1.]
A software designer became the first casualty of a new state law stiffening the penalties for computer tampering. [A1.]
A court ruling requires a health plan to prove it did not discriminate against an AIDS patient when it ended benefits. [D2.]
The gap between promised retirement benefits and the money some companies set aside to pay for them widened in 1992. [D12.]
MCI and Jones Lightwave plan an experiment to allow consumers to use their cable television wire for long-distance calls. [D17.]
 
International
Chinese authorities have apparently abandoned a five-month-old austerity drive in favor of more economic growth, raising concern that the country's robust expansion may overheat. [A1.]
Germany's health insurance system has swung from a $5.7 billion deficit to a surplus thanks to drug price controls. But doctors and drug companies complain of problems. [D1.]
 
Markets
Stock prices fell on concern over rising interest rates. The Dow lost 23.76, to 3,670.25. [D1.] Japanese stocks plunged after the Government failed to commit itself to economic stimulus. [D2.]
Treasury bond and note prices continued to dive, pushing the 30-year bond yield up to its highest level since Aug. 12. [D18.]
Oil prices rose ahead of OPEC's meeting in Vienna. But Kuwait opposed lower production. [D20.] The dollar was mixed. [D20.]
 
Today's Columns
A stock exchange clerical error set off a wild day of trading in Paramount stock. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D1.]
Citizen Watch begins its Christmas selling drive with ads by D'Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D21.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MA (NYSE) (84%); LSBK (NASDAQ) (68%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); VIA (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (84%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (68%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); SIC6163 LOAN BROKERS (68%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (68%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (66%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (57%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (52%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: MASTERCARD INC (84%); LAKE SHORE BANCORP INC (68%); QVC INC (66%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (57%); TICKETMASTER ENTERTAINMENT INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); VIACOM INC (54%); FEDERAL PROGRAMS (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (79%); INDIANA, USA (52%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS AIRLINES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STRIKES (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (88%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (86%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (72%); DISCRIMINATION (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); TENDER OFFERS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (69%); CABLE TELEVISION (69%); NONSTORE RETAILERS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (68%); ACQUISITIONS (66%); AIDS & HIV (64%); DRUG PRICES (60%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (60%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (53%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); STEVEN JOBS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1993



630 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: Dean Witter Gets Entry to Mastercard

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL

 BODY:
Ending one of the most bitter battles in the credit-card business, Mastercard International said yesterday that it would allow the rival Dean Witter, Discover & Company to sponsor a Mastercard credit card.
In a compromise, Dean Witter would offer the card jointly with an existing Mastercard member, Nationsbank of Charlotte, N.C. They will split the expenses and the revenues of the product, which will be introduced early next year. 
 Mastercard and Visa International, which are both nonprofit associations of banks, had moved to prevent Dean Witter from issuing cards with their brands because its Discover card is a prime competitor. If Dean Witter, which was recently spun off from Sears, Roebuck & Company, was able to join the card associations, it would be able to gain access to competitive information, the associations have contended.
Dean Witter had sued Visa to challenge its exclusion on antitrust grounds, and it won a jury trial last year. The case is being appealed. In February, Mastercard sued Dean Witter, which countersued over essentially the same issue.
Dean Witter said it would withdraw its lawsuit against Mastercard as part of the agreement announced yesterday. Moreover, the companies agreed that if Dean Witter won the suit against Visa, it would also be allowed to join Mastercard and issue cards without Nationsbank.
If that happened, Dean Witter would have the right to buy Nationsbank's part of the credit-card program. Nonetheless, while this may be a short relationship, it allows Nationsbank to expand its small credit-card business.
"We have the opportunity to provide good service to customers and make a profit for our shareholders, even if it is for a limited period of time," said G. Patrick Phillips, president of Nationsbank's financial products group.
The bank has an unusual proportion of its balance sheet in government securities, and it has been aggressively looking for ways to move the money into higher-yielding loans.
 
Low-Interest Appeal
 The new credit card will not use the Dean Witter, Nationsbank or Discover brand names and will not be aimed at either company's existing customers. It will be called "Prime Option" and is meant to appeal to consumers who want a low interest rate.
"There is very little overlap in customers with the Discover Card," Philip J. Purcell, Dean Witter's chairman, said. "People are attracted to the Discover card because it is a no fee, cash back bonus; that's not the same as a low-interest-rate card."
Under the card's terms, customers pay 9.9 percent interest for the first two months after a purchase, but then the rate rises to the prime rate plus 9.9 percent. (Currently, the prime rate is 6 percent). This structure is meant to take advantage of the gap between the intentions of consumers to pay off their credit-card bills quickly, and the reality that most run balances for long periods.
The card will not have an annual fee, and customers will not incur any interest charges if they pay their bills in full every month. Mr. Purcell said that Dean Witter was developing other credit-card products to appeal to other market segments that will each have separate brand names.
Under Nationsbank's arrangement with Dean Witter, the two companies will share marketing costs and revenue from the credit-card program. Nationsbank will make the credit-card loans, although it has the option to sell some of them to Dean Witter. Dean Witter will provide the customer service and operations from its bank in Utah, MountainWest Financial. The companies declined to discuss the details of their financial arrangement.
The arrangement is not the first between Dean Witter and Nationsbank. Last year, the two formed a joint venture to put full-service stockbrokers in Nationsbank's 1,800 branches. Mr. Purcell said he approached Nationsbank with the credit-card idea several months ago.
Hugh McColl, Nationsbank's chairman, has said he would be interested in buying Dean Witter if its stock price was lower.
Although Mastercard's decision to cooperate with Discover is controversial among banks, Alex W. Hart, Mastercard's president, defended his action, saying it relieved the association and its members of the expense of litigation and the potential for significant damages if the suit were lost.
The move could be another coup for Mastercard, which has reversed its long decline in market share by aligning itself with aggressive nonbanks including A.T.& T. and General Motors.
Many analysts wonder whether Dean Witter's entry into the bank card business is a precursor to bringing the Discover brand under the Visa or Mastercard umbrella. This would allow the company to eliminate its network of separate relationships with merchants that accept its card, although Discover executives say they do not want to do this.
After spending $1 billion to start Discover, Dean Witter has issued more than 27 million accounts. While the business has become profitable, it had a return on equity in 1992 of 16.3 percent, far lower than most bank credit-card programs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MA (NYSE) (97%); V (NYSE) (93%); MS (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (97%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (97%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (90%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: MASTERCARD INTERNATIONAL INC; VISA INTERNATIONAL INC; DEAN WITTER DISCOVER & CO; NATIONSBANK MASTERCARD INC (97%); VISA INC (93%); MORGAN STANLEY (92%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASTERCARD INTERNATIONAL INC; VISA INTERNATIONAL INC; DEAN WITTER DISCOVER & CO; NATIONSBANK

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (90%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS; SUITS AND LITIGATION PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (76%); PRIME RATES (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); SALES REBATES (71%); JURY TRIALS (68%); APPEALS (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (67%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (64%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL PHILIP J PURCELL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1993



631 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Dow Falls 23.76 Points In Selloff

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
Concerns over rising interest rates and a weakening bull market pushed stock prices down yesterday and intensified fears that American stocks might be facing new downward pressures.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 23.76 points to close at 3,670.25, after tumbling more than 40 points in the morning. But even more troubling, market traders said, was that the number of stocks falling in price outnumbered those gaining by a margin of about 7 to 2 -- an indicator of broad market weakness. 
 Trading was dominated yesterday by a continued rise in long-term interest rates, which made the stock market skittish because rising rates are a sign of possible future inflation and a threat as investors move their money from stocks into higher-yielding bonds. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond rose to the highest level since Aug. 12. [Page D18.]
 
 
Gloom From Overseas
 In addition, the trading day opened to gloomy market news from overseas as stock prices fell sharply in Tokyo. [Page D2.] The slide continued as trading shifted to Europe.
But in the United States, market analysts saw yesterday's market drop as confirming their view that the bull market was continuing to show signs of fatigue. It has been more than 36 months since the stock market has dropped by more than 10 percent, the general benchmark for a significant correction. This has been the longest run-up without a 10 percent correction since the Dow Jones index was created in 1897.
"This is a sick stock market now," said David Shulman, a market analyst with Salomon Brothers. "This is a liquidity-driven market, and higher interest rates will take liquidity from the stock market."
 
 
A Growing Slump
 Stocks had been mostly lower for the previous four trading sessions. And many analysts said that gains on Friday were propped up by "buy" orders from program traders. When those orders did not appear yesterday and the news from overseas was bad, stocks fell sharply in early trading.
Analysts, however, said yesterday's market performance reflected larger issues at play. Rising interest rates have raised questions about the strength of the economic recovery, which has been fed by low interest rates. In addition, rising interest rates could affect the flow of money into stock mutual funds, which have swelled -- helping to push up stock prices -- as investors search for higher yields.
"If those money flows diminish into the mutual funds and the market, we're in trouble," said Michael Metz, a market analyst at Oppenheimer & Company. "We're beginning to see the signs of a correction that will bring the market down by 10 percent before it runs its course."
The market is weaker than what the Dow suggests, analysts say, because the index consists of blue-chip stocks, which are generally slower to fall in price than the stocks of middle- and lower-tier companies.
 
'The Market Is Tired'
 "The market is tired, and it's oversold," said Larry Wachtel, a vice president at Prudential Securities Inc. "For the 1,700 stocks that declined, it was a horrendous day. And we've been seeing more of these days when you have more than 1,500 stocks declining. That's a signal of real weakness."
Donald Kimsey, a technical market analyst at Smith Barney Shearson, said: "The underpinnings of the market have been weakening for some time. If you look just at the Dow, you think that everything is O.K. But the increase in the number of declining shares has been going on for a while now."
On a percentage basis, stocks on the Nasdaq market and the American Stock Exchange were hit even harder yesterday, a sign that smaller and medium-size companies have been suffering the most. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 13.43, to 738.13, and the American Exchange fell 7.10, to 460.88. The smaller emerging stocks have generally led the market during the bull rally and are now most vulnerable to declines as the market turns down.
"Across the board, a lot of damage was done," said John Schraff, an equity trader with Daiwa Securities. "There's selling everywhere."
 
 
Drops in Technology and Casinos
 Industries that were particularly hard-hit yesterday were high-technology stocks, led by Motorola and Hewlett-Packard. Cyclical stocks, including Caterpillar and Deere, fell, as did casino stocks like Mirage Resorts and Circus Circus Enterprises.
Among the most actively traded shares was Paramount Communications, which rose 2 5/8, to 79, after Viacom Inc. said it would extend its tender offer until midnight tomorrow. Merck declined 1 1/2, to 33 5/8, after it appeared the company would get more stock and less cash from an impending merger.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
STOCKS PLUNGE IN EUROPE
 PARIS, Nov. 22 (Special to The New York Times) -- European stock markets plunged today, driven lower by fears that Wall Street could suffer from rising interest rates in the United States.
The Paris bourse slumped 3 percent, while the Frankfurt stock market fell by 2.3 percent. The London exchange was down 1.2 percent, affected partly by nervousness ahead of the British budget, due on Nov. 30.
Analysts said today that European markets remained due for a correction. In local currency terms, the German, French and British markets have all risen more than 30 percent in the last year. With the end of the year approaching, brokers are more inclined to cash in their gains.
The rises on European markets have been fed mainly by gradually falling interest rates. But in recent weeks, concern has been mounting that a stronger-than-expected recovery in the United States may lead to mounting inflation and higher interest rates.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. (pg. D8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (70%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (70%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE MICHAEL MCMAHON (62%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1993



632 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bond Prices Continue Their Slide

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The Treasury sold $17 billion of two-year notes yesterday as bond and note prices continued to dive.
The price decline pushed the yield on the 30-year bond up to 6.38 percent, its highest level since Aug. 12. In the last three trading days, the price of the bond has plunged more than 2 1/2 points, with the yield jumping almost a quarter of a percentage point. 
 There was no major economic news yesterday but traders said that the market had broken some important price levels recently and that movement had added to the downward momentum.
 
Seeking Patterns

 
 A lot of traders make buying and selling decisions based on a careful examination of trading patterns. When the price of a security breaks below a level that had been expected to hold, selling can follow quickly.
Traders also said that a number of them were unwilling to hold any positions for long because a sudden decline in the market could eat into the profits they have already made this year. This wariness is adding to selling pressure, even when there is no new economic or political developments to drive the market.
The prospect of a Treasury auction yesterday and today also influenced the market, traders said.
The underlying reason for the selling remains the fear that the economy is picking up pace in the last three months of the year. The concern among many is that this rate of growth could carry into next year. If it does, traders are concerned about two things.
One is that inflation, which has been at a rate of less than 3 percent this year, could begin to rise faster. Second is a fear that the Federal Reserve would respond by quickly raising its target for short-term interest rates; that target has been 3 percent for more than a year.
 
Widespread Effects
 The fear of rising inflation, which reduces profits from fixed-income securities, would hurt longer-term maturities, like the 30-year bond. The fear of a Fed increase in short-term interest rates makes short-term Treasury securities less attractive.
But many analysts argue that any new data should not be a surprise that pushes prices lower and yields higher. "There is basically not much to drive the market down now but momentum," said David Munro, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics.
He said there is little risk of much more of a selloff, because data for the first part of next year will show that the economy is slowing to a growth rate of about 3 percent rather than the 4 percent or more forecast for the fourth quarter of 1993.
In late trading yesterday, the price of the 30-year bond was down 24/32 as the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 6.38 percent, from 6.33 percent Friday. The price of the three-year note was off 4/32 with the yield up to 4.59 percent from 4.55 percent.
Because of the holiday-shortened week, the Treasury held two auctions yesterday, the regular sale of three-month and six-month Treasury bills and the monthly sale of two-year notes. The market will be closed on Thursday for Thanksgiving and trading will end about 2 P.M. both tomorrow and Friday.
 
No Surprise at Auction
 The auction of two-year notes went as expected, traders said, and did not seem to have a major impact on the market. The high yield at the auction of two-year notes was 4.27 percent. All the notes are awarded at the same price and yield.
The Treasury will auction $11 billion of five-year notes today. In when-issued trading late yesterday, the yield for that issue was at 5.23 percent, up from 5.17 percent Friday.
In the bills auction, the three-month bill was sold at an average discount rate of 3.14 percent, up from 3.11 percent a week ago, and the six-month bill was auctioned at an average discount rate of 3.30 percent, up from 3.26 percent a week ago.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auctions of two-year notes and of three- and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
High Yield . . . 4.27%
Low Yield . . . 4.20%
Median Yield . . . 4.25%
Accepted at low price . . . 47%
Total applied for . . . $46,584,445
Accepted . . . $17,013,294
Noncompetitive . . . $585,000
Interest set at . . . 4 1/4%
 
The two-year notes mature on Nov. 30, 1995.
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	99.215	98.341		 	 	Discounted Rate	3.14%	3.30%		 	 	Coupon Yield	3.21%	3.40%		 	 	High Price	99.220	98.351		 	 	Discounted Rate	3.12%	3.28%		 	 	Coupon Yield	3.19%	3.38%		 	 	Low Price	99.215	98.341		 	 	Discounted Rate	3.14%	3.30%		 	 	Coupon Yield	3.21%	3.40%		 	 	Accepted at low price	24%	20%		 	 	Total applied for	$51,864,871	$56,547,321		 	 	Accepted	$13,979,152	$14,055,997		 	 	Noncompetitive	$1,203,115	$874,195	
 
Both issues are dated Nov. 26, 1993. The three-month bills mature on Feb. 24, 1994, and the six-month bills mature on May 26, 1994.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "2-Year Treasury Notes" shows the average discounted rate in percent from June '92-Nov. '93. (Source: Treasury Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (93%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1993



633 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Is Mixed as Traders Lock In Their Recent Profits

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar retreated against the German mark and was mixed against other currencies yesterday as traders locked in profits from the dollar's recent rise.
In New York, the dollar fell to 1.7040 German marks, from 1.7146 late Friday, but it edged up to 108.47 Japanese yen from 108.45 yen. Trading was light as the market began to wind down for Thanksgiving and the end of the month. 
 Gold prices, meanwhile, were mostly higher. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for December delivery gained 20 cents, to $378.50 an ounce.
The mark strengthened against the dollar and other currencies after Germany reported a 6.8 percent rise in its money supply through October.
"It perhaps dashed some of our hopes of another German rate cut in the near future," said Stephen Flanagan, a Paine Webber vice president.
 
An Interest Rate Trade-Off
 Lower interest rates might give the sluggish German economy a lift, but would probably cause the mark to fall in value, since German-denominated deposits would offer a lower return to investors.
Many investors sold dollars to collect profits on the rise against European currencies.
The dollar strengthened against the Italian lira after Italy's dominant parties were crushed in mayoral elections. The neo-Fascist party and leftist candidates scored important gains in the balloting, seen as a dress rehearsal for general elections next year. In New York, the dollar was quoted at 1,680 lire, up from 1,678 on Friday.
Further political disintegration in Italy, which is reeling from a huge corruption scandal, could make it difficult for a government to win agreement on economic policy.
The British pound, rose in New York to $1.4760, from $1.4729 on Friday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared those with late Friday, included: 1.4945 Swiss francs, down from 1.5050; 5.9205 French francs, down from 5.9465, and 1.3276 Canadian dollars, up from 1.3268.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (92%); ITALY (91%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; GERMANY; JAPAN UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); JAPAN (92%); ITALY (91%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; GOLD CURRENCIES (92%); GERMAN MARK (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); INTEREST RATES (74%); BRITISH POUND (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); MONEY SUPPLY (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); MAYORS (65%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (56%); CORRUPTION (50%); SCANDALS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1993



634 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: Tokyo Stocks Fall 3.1%; Anxiety Grips Market

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Nov. 22

 BODY:
Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa's failure over the weekend to issue a clear commitment to reinvigorate the deteriorating Japanese economy sent the stock market here into a fearful dive today, with the closely watched Nikkei index of 225 issues plummeting more than 3 percent.
With Japanese investors' self-confidence eroding by the day, the Nikkei fell from the start and accelerated in the afternoon. At the close it had lost 556.35 points, or 3.1 percent, for its second worst day of the year and with few prospects of a recovery anytime soon. The market will be closed Tuesday for a national holiday. 
 The market index has now lost a steep 15.2 percent since early October, which means tens of billions of dollars in value have been erased from portfolios in a few weeks' time.
 "It's anxiety turning into fear," said Robert Sasaki, the head of stock-index futures trading here for Jardine Fleming Securities.
Analysts said that the recent slide had been brought about by the Government's mishandled sale of shares in the East Japan Railway, or JR East, the country's largest passenger railroad, after a long period in which big new issues of shares were prohibited.
The price of JR East shares rose nearly 60 percent on the first day, Oct. 26, but ever since has tumbled steadily, with trading halted several times because of the intensity of the selling.
"They have egg all over their faces for that," said Geoffrey Barker, head of research at Baring Securities (Japan). "That really hurt sentiment."
Despite the positive outcome of the summit meeting of Pacific Rim leaders in Seattle last week and the passage of a landmark political reform law here, the sentiment of investors was not improved. They are looking for just one thing -- evidence that the Government takes seriously the deepening economic gloom after a two-year recession and intends to do something about it.
Mr. Hosokawa had a big chance on Friday, when an advisory commission offered suggestions for altering the tax system. Many investors had hoped that the Prime Minister would seize the opportunity to propose a large cut in income taxes, which could provide a quick lift to one of the most depressed areas of the economy, consumer sentiment.
Mr. Hosokawa elected, however, to defer a decision on tax changes. His action reinforced gloomy views that the Government does not appreciate the seriousness of the economic difficulties. Many private economists are now forecasting that the economy will actually shrink this year, taking a toll on corporate profits, the financial health of the banking system and Japan's industrial vigor.
 
 
'Nothing Solid'
 "We'd hoped that the talk of taxes might do the trick, but there was nothing solid," Mr. Barker said.
The tax commission recommended a reduction in income taxes, but also suggested that the Government should increase its consumption tax, a kind of sales tax. That would all but negate any positive impact from the income tax cut, economists said.
"It's the fundamentals," said Tim Hayashida, an analyst here with Merrill Lynch & Company. "We've had constant delays in the expectations for an economic recovery. There's no reason to be in this market yet."
Mr. Sasaki said that many large investors were selling stock-index futures because of the expectation that the market had so little potential for rebounding. Those futures sales, he added, were forcing other investors to sell stocks, pushing the market lower.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Traders on the floor of the Tokyo Stock Exchange yesterday using hand signals during trading. At the close of trading, the Nikkei index of 225 issues had lost 556.35 points, or 3.1 percent, for its second worst day of the year, with few prospects of a recovery anytime soon. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 9020 (TSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS485112 COMMUTER RAIL SYSTEMS (55%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (55%); SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT (55%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (55%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE JARDINE FLEMING SECURITIES (56%); EAST JAPAN RAILWAY CO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NIKKEI STOCK AVERAGE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); TAX LAW (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); RECESSION (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); FUTURES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BONDS (73%); TRENDS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (66%); INCOME TAX (65%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (55%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES MORIHIRO HOSOKAWA (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1993



635 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Museum as Cultural Anchor: The Studio at 25

BYLINE: By SHEILA RULE

 BODY:
When the Studio Museum in Harlem opened its doors in a rented loft in 1968, most black artists were being excluded from gallery and museum shows, and only a handful -- among them Romare Bearden, Jacob Lawrence and Elizabeth Catlett -- had gained national or international exposure. That number has grown exponentially, as has the number of institutions collecting black art, and the museum, which is regarded by many in the art world as the premier fine-arts institution of its kind, has been instrumental.
Two current exhibitions at the museum illustrate its defining missions: to provide studio space for black artists and to exhibit their work. One is "The 25th-Anniversary Exhibition: Recent Acquisitions and Selected Works from the Studio Museum in Harlem Collection," which includes works by Bearden, Ms. Catlett, Emma Amos, Melvin Edwards, Sam Gilliam, Serge Jolimeau and Alvin Loving. 
 The other is "From the Studio: Artists in Residence, 1992-1993," which features works by Bob Rivera, a sculptor; Michelle Talibah, a painter, and Nari Ward, a multimedia artist, all of whom are in the artists-in-residence program, which has been going on for 25 years, as long as the Studio Museum has.
Faith Ringgold, who has received considerable acclaim for her painted story quilts, says that an exhibition at the Studio Museum is the "ultimate rite of passage for black artists in America and probably in the world."
 
Nearly 1,500 Works
 The museum began as an idea of the Junior Council, a volunteer group of the Museum of Modern Art. It was envisioned as a place where good black artists would exhibit and one that would enhance the Harlem community's involvement with the cultural life of the city. In 1982, it moved from its rented space above a luncheonette and liquor store on upper Fifth Avenue to its permanent home in a turn-of-the-century building, donated by the New York Bank for Savings, at 144 West 125th Street. The building is home to galleries, a museum shop, archives, workshops, artists' studios and the museum's permanent collection, which now consists of nearly 1,500 works by black artists from the United States, Africa and the Caribbean.
"Once I had a show there, things began happening," Ms. Ringgold said. "It kind of said to New York, 'Come on and look at Faith Ringgold' and people started looking at me in a whole different kind of way."
Marcia Tucker, the founder and director of the New Museum of Contemporary Art in SoHo, said of the Studio Museum: "It has not only done some extraordinary historical shows and recouped bodies of work that simply had been lost, but it has also introduced really, really important artists to the rest of the art world.
"Studio is one of the really great treasures of New York City's cultural life."
 
Relevance Questioned
 Yet the director of the museum, Kinshasha Holman Conwill, says that its relevance has to be defended and redefined now more than ever, because many of the ideals of the 1960's are being dismissed or trivialized.
The avowed interest in cultural diversity, she said, "has raised the question as to whether or not we as Americans, in and out of the art world, are really interested in pluralism, separatism or tokenism."
"We at the museum are interested in pluralism," Ms. Conwill said, "but one of my concerns is that many of our colleagues seem to be interested in the other two. In a pluralistic society, the voices of all of that society's people have to be given their due."
The challenge for the Studio Museum, she said, "is to articulate the vision of African-American artists both historically and currently, on its own terms and in the larger context of American and world art."
 
A Help or a Ghetto?
 For all its accomplishments, the Studio Museum's devotion to the art of black Americans and the African diaspora leaves it open to criticism that like other specialized museums it segregates or ghettoizes the very artists it wants to help move into a cultural mainstream. Mrs. Conwill calls that view a "myth" not borne out by the museum's record.
Ms. Ringgold agrees. "I don't think anybody can deny that African-American artists need a place that they can principally call their own," she said. "If not, what are we going to do, sit around and wait until racism disappears and we all have shows at the Modern, the Metropolitan or the Guggenheim? We have to have a place where we can show ourselves to ourselves in a way that is strong and wonderful. That's not ghettoizing."
Ms. Tucker, the New Museum director, recalled a recent conference of museum professionals in Germany where, as she put it, "the head of a quite large museum said 'Why do we really need a black museum, when artists like David Hammons are showing all over?" Mr. Hammons was an artist in residence at the Studio Museum from 1979 to 1980.
Ms. Tucker, whose museum is also noted for helping to bring along little-known artists, said: "There's a kind of colonializing impulse that says if a major museum shows the work of an African-American artist, they discovered the artist. They neglect the fact that the artist had a residency at Studio, was shown at Studio and was supported by the curator, director and educational staff at Studio."
 
Into the Schools
 Just as important to the museum is the role it plays as a cultural anchor in Harlem. It regularly presents workshops for children, as well as seminars that explore issues important to blacks. For nearly 20 years, its Cooperative School Program has been sending professional artists to Harlem's public schools to help children develop an appreciation of the fine arts.
"It's crucial that the museum see itself as part of Harlem," said Charles E. Inniss, who was the museum's first director and is now its chairman. "I don't think one can thrive without the other. For you to have a good business environment, for there to be economic development in a place like Harlem, you need a cultural fabric that strengthens the quality of life. It is appropriate for the Studio Museum to be right where it is."
The development of an endowment and funds for both acquisitions and the museum's physical plant are seen as critical to the Studio Museum's ability to flourish. Economic support comes from a number of sources: major contributions have been made by the city, the National Endowment for the Arts, the Ford Foundation, the Lila Wallace-Reader's Digest Fund, the National Arts Stabilization Fund, the American Express Company and Philip Morris. But Mrs. Conwill says the museum's status as a community-based institution has hurt it.
There is a perception that such institutions are less significant, she said, and therefore, "must not need that much money."
"We are a $3 million operation," she said. "Fully staffed we have 50 employees and generate thousands of dollars each year in part-time employment and consultancies. We have had major capital programs of over $1 million, but for years we've been thought of as community based, so the attitude is, here is $250, $500, $1,000."
"Institutions like ours have played a major role in defining what American culture is, and that's not done cheaply," Mrs. Conwill said. "The real challenge for the next period is getting supporters at all levels to understand that the ante has gone up on what it takes to produce and build quality programs, collections and publications."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kinshasha Holman Conwill, director of the Studio Museum in Harlem, with works by Serge Jolimeau. (Ed Quinn for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (54%); 

COMPANY: STUDIO MUSEUM (HARLEM)

ORGANIZATION: STUDIO MUSEUM (HARLEM)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (54%); 

SUBJECT: ART; BLACKS (IN US) MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); SCULPTURE (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (72%); VOLUNTEERS (69%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (62%); ANNIVERSARIES (54%); 

PERSON: RULE, SHEILA; CONWILL, KINSHASHA HOLMAN

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1993



636 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 6; Science Desk

LENGTH: 2196 words

HEADLINE: SCIENTIST AT WORK: Harold E. Varmus;
Out of the Lab and Into the Bureaucracy

BYLINE: By NATALIE ANGIER

DATELINE: BETHESDA, Md.

 BODY:
HAROLD E. VARMUS, the new director of the National Institutes of Health and therefore one of the most powerful figures in science, is a man with many weighty matters over which he can mull.
He can worry about the slide in government financing for scientific research, or the wretched state of science education in America. He can dwell on the demoralized condition of the institutes themselves, where many of the clinics and laboratories are dangerously decrepit and where charges of racial discrimination and sexual harassment have been flying. He can fret over choosing the perfect director for one of the most politically sensitive of the new divisions at the N.I.H., the Office of AIDS Research. 
 Dr. Varmus can ponder all these great issues, and he has been doing so with considerable zeal over the past few months, but at the moment his mind has fastened onto something much merrier.
"Data!" he crowed happily. "Can you believe it? Real data!" He held up a piece of X-ray film displaying a ladderlike pattern of black smudges, the evidence of gene activity. "My lab just sent it to me this morning," he said, referring to the laboratory he left behind at the University of California at San Francisco, where he was (and still is) professor of molecular virology, biochemistry and biophysics. "It's the best thing I've seen all day."
The experimental result in Dr. Varmus's hand is more than a pleasant distraction from the details of his new career as administrative potentate. As a scientist who won a Nobel Prize in 1989 for fundamental research on the genes that cause cancer, as a scientist who has spent the last 25 years surrounded by the paraphernalia of molecular biology -- flasks, petri dishes, test tubes, scintillators and centrifuges -- Dr. Varmus needs to keep discovering new things about how nature works.
"It's a drug," he said. "It's an addiction. It's a craving. I have to have it."
"One of the most difficult things for me right now is that my lab is in California and I'm here," he added. "I'm not getting my daily fix." For that reason, Dr. Varmus plans to set up a small laboratory at the N.I.H., staffed by just enough graduate students, technicians and postdoctoral fellows to supply him with his data buzz and still allow him to stay focused on the enormous task before him: running and in a sense reinventing the organization that is the lifeblood of the nation's biomedical enterprise. The Senate confirmed Dr. Varmus in a smoothly perfunctory voice vote early Saturday morning.
Dr. Varmus will be 54 years old next month, but he has the build of an athlete, staying slim with the long, hard runs and bicycle rides for which he is renowned among his peers. His hair is thinning but still dark, and his small, impish face looks perpetually amused. Coming from California and academia, Dr. Varmus has yet to adopt the gray-suited ways of Washington, and he keeps his tie slung carelessly over the pole in his office coat closet, not far from his sweaty workout clothes. He arrives at the N.I.H. in the wake of the former director, Dr. Bernadine Healy, who alienated a number of scientists and politicians with her argumentative style and who was asked to leave her position last June. He arrives as though buoyed on clouds of glory, acclaimed for his scientific achievements, his quickness of mind, his Jeffersonian love of learning and culture that variously alights on poetry, theater, music, performance art, the study of ancient Chinese oracle bones, the study of war memorials.
"Whatever crosses his path receives the advantage of his wonderful intelligence," said Dr. Diane Middlebrook, professor of English at Stanford University and author of an acclaimed biography of Anne Sexton. "I'm used to being around the large egos of major scientists, but Harold, though he has a strong sense of himself, has a genuine curiousity that is not mediated by a desire to be self-aggrandizing."
Not only is Dr. Varmus the first Nobel laureate to head the institutes, he is also one of the few scientists who can claim training on the other side of the great intellectual divide, having earned his bachelor's degree in English from Amherst College and a master's degree in English literature from Harvard University.
Dr. Ira Herskowitz, a professor of genetics at the University of California at San Francisco, said, "Harold is a passionate information junkie, and this is going to serve him very well in his new job, where he'll have to assimilate tremendous amounts of information."
Basic researchers hope that as one of their own, Dr. Varmus can help shore up their declining fortunes and morale. The percentage of grants submitted to the N.I.H. that are financed has slipped from about 40 percent 20 years ago to at best 15 percent today. However, Dr. Varmus admits that given the current economy, he is unlikely to persuade Congress to substantially increase the institutes' $11 billion budget any time soon. What is more, although he will happily trumpet the triumphs of pure research, he knows that his constituency now is much broader than bench scientists alone, encompassing clinicians, epidemiologists, psychologists, practitioners of alternative medicine and the like. And before he can push through new programs, Dr. Varmus is likely to need time to master the role of supreme bureaucrat, a job for which his background has hardly prepared him.
Some groups have expressed concern that Dr. Varmus is so fixated on basic research that he could undo their recent successes in getting Federal funds earmarked for the study of particularly diseases. Frances M. Visco, president of the National Breast Cancer Coalition, a lobbying organization based in Washington that recently persuaded Congress to allocate $210 million of the military budget for, oddly enough, breast cancer research, said scientists have had their way too long. "The scientific community historically has been making decisions about how to spend research money without any oversight," she said. "We're saying, you're not going to be able to do that anymore. We're saying, let's focus on breast cancer. It's time we do that.
"We're concerned that Dr. Varmus may be opposed to our principles."
 
Breast Cancer Research
 However, Dr. Varmus, who was on the scientific panel that advised the Army on how best to spend its $210 million, said he felt the two camps were closer than Ms. Visco seemed to think. "They didn't want the money to just go into mammography studies or drug trials," he said. "They wanted it to go into a basic understanding of breast cancer. And we asked that applicants for money be able to convince reviewers that what they're doing is related to breast cancer," even if their project is studying cell division in yeast.
Dr. Varmus pointed out that his mother died of breast cancer 23 years ago, a loss that helped inspire him to study a virus that causes breast cancer in mice.
He has been somewhat less persuaded by recent calls for an increase in financing for the behavioral and social sciences. "I begin with the premise that behavior is an incredibly important element in medicine," he said. "People's habits, their willingness to quit smoking, their willingness to take steps to avoid transmission of H.I.V., are all behavioral questions.
"But what I'm looking for are new ideas, real discoveries. When I read about genetics, I see breakthroughs every day. And while I'm trying to learn more about behavioral science, I must say that I don't feel I get tremendous intellectual stimulation from most of the things I read."
Beyond pitching for hard science, Dr. Varmus has many plans for the institutes proper: filling vacant positions, recruiting bright young scientists to spend their most energetic years at the Government campus, rebuilding facilities like the huge clinic where experimental trials are carried out, a structure that engineers say may collapse in the next few years without an expensive overhaul.
 
Administrative Squabbles
 In addition, he has conflicts to resolve, including charges by some employees that they have not been promoted because of their race or gender. Also festering are debates over the Women's Health Initiative, a large study launched by Dr. Healy and designed to explore the impact of diet, nutritional supplements, exercise, estrogen replacement therapy and other factors on women's long-term health. Many researchers feel the $66 million study is too disorganized and badly conceived to yield meaningful answers, and Dr. Varmus hopes in the near future to convene a panel to decide which parts of the trial should be kept and which modified or discarded.
How well Dr. Varmus will fare in his new position, or how much he will like it, is unclear. Friends talk about his phenomenal energy, his ability to work tirelessly, to exercise ferociously, to recover from a very serious biking accident near the San Francisco campus in a handful of days and return fearlessly to his old biking habits. His colleagues and students talk of how much they enjoy working with him, how attentively he follows everybody's experiments.
He is also extremely competitive and determined to win. "Occasionally, when new postdocs would come to the lab, Harold would ask them if they liked to run," said Dr. Bruce Bowerman, an assistant professor of biology at the University of Oregon in Eugene who studied under Dr. Varmus. "If they did, he'd invite them out for a run with him, and if he could run faster, he'd leave them far behind. He relished showing up younger runners."
Yet Dr. Varmus has relatively little administrative experience, except managing his lab of 25 people, and he has not been known for his diplomacy, a skill that would seem essential for dealing with Congress. His sister, Ellen Varmus Bloch, said her brother went into research rather than clinical medicine because "he's not one with a whole lot of bedside manner," adding, "He's very honest, forthcoming and smart, but he doesn't have much patience for whining."
Dr. Leon Levintow, a professor emeritus of the University of California at San Francisco and the former chairman of Dr. Varmus's department, said that when he talked with Dr. Varmus about the N.I.H. position, he wondered whether his old colleague could hide his feelings well enough to thrive in Washington. "In the past, Harold made no bones about the fact that he's impatient with ignorant attitudes," said Dr. Levintow. "But he said he recognizes the importance of being politically savvy, and he's cultivated that talent."
If suppleness of response is a key to political success, Dr. Varmus has demonstrated his adaptability throughout his career. His father was the state physician for Jones Beach in New York, a job that sometimes included the unpleasant task of declaring people dead from drowning, and his mother was a psychiatric social worker. Growing up in Freeport, L.I., Dr. Varmus assumed he would be a doctor. But he developed a passionate interest in literature, and as a teen-ager thought he would be happy as a literary scholar. At Harvard, he changed his mind. "I saw my friends in medical school seeming to be more engaged with the real world," he said. "That provoked a sort of jealousy, and I decided to go to medical school after all," earning his medical degree from Columbia University.
In part because he is married to Constance Casey, an editor and writer and now the assistant editor of the book review section of The Washington Post, he has stayed very much immersed in the world of literature, attending plays and poetry readings and reading widely. The couple have two sons, Jacob, a junior at the University of Iowa, and Christopher, a junior in high school.
An opponent of the war in Vietnam, Dr. Varmus wanted to avoid being drafted, so he performed his public- service obligations by joining Dr. Ira Pastan's laboratory at the N.I.H. in 1968, studying bacterial biochemistry. From there Dr. Varmus went to the University of California, beginning as a postdoctoral fellow to Dr. J. Michael Bishop, a molecular biologist, and swiftly rising up become his collaborator.
The two won their Nobel Prize for the discovery that the body holds within it genes, called oncogenes, that through a few simple biochemical alterations, become fomenters of cancerous growth. The detection of oncogenes transformed the study of cancer almost overnight, and laboratories around the world continue to explore how these genes work in their healthy configuration, why they sometimes turn renegade and how the mutant genes can be counteracted to block malignant growth. He also has worked on genes that help shape the developing brain, and on the insidious mechanisms that viruses use to infiltrate human cells.
Dr. Varmus thrived as a scientist, but as the years passed he became increasingly interested in science policy, joining committees and government panels. He also became hungry for a career switch. "I'm doing this in part because I have a certain restlessness," he said. "I loved what I was doing but I can see that life is not infinite. Twenty-three years, same house, same job. I was ready for a change."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Harold E. Varmus, the new director of the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md., keeps a tie in his office closet near his bicycle gear. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH; UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (SAN FRANCISCO) NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (94%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (82%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH; UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (SAN FRANCISCO) NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (94%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (82%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SCIENCE NEWS (92%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); BIOLOGY (78%); BIOMEDICINE (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (78%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (77%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); BIOCHEMICAL RESEARCH (77%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (77%); DISCRIMINATION (75%); PHYSICS (73%); VIROLOGY (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); CANCER (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); BIOCHEMISTRY (71%); GENETIC BIOCHEMISTRY (71%); CENTRIFUGES (71%); RACE & RACISM (70%); AIDS & HIV (70%); BIOPHYSICS (65%); NOBEL PRIZES (64%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (56%); AWARDS & PRIZES (50%); 

PERSON: VARMUS, HAROLD E (DR); ANGIER, NATALIE; VARMUS, HAROLD E (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH)

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1993



637 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: Government Finds Wider Gap on Financing of Pensions

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 22

 BODY:
The gap between promised retirement benefits and the money set aside to pay for them widened by 31 percent in 1992 among the companies with the 50 largest underfinanced pension plans, the Government reported today.
The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation's annual list showed the underfinancing grew to $38 billion, $31.7 billion of which is guaranteed by the agency. The 1991 gap, or difference between pension liabilities and assets, was $29.1 billion. It was the fifth straight annual increase. 
 "These results underscore the need for pension funding reforms and provide additional evidence that current law is not working," said Martin Slate, executive director of the pension insurance agency. "The Clinton Administration has reforms now before Congress to strengthen the law and to improve pension security."
 
Possible Changes
 The proposed overhaul would speed sponsor contributions to underfinanced plans and enhance the agency's authority to require compliance, increase insurance premiums for plans considered most at risk and require that plan participants be given information that is easily understood.
Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich has estimated that underfinancing for all private businesses grew from $27 billion in 1987 to $45 billion in 1992, putting the benefits of millions of workers and retirees at risk.
The pension agency, which is financed by payments from businesses, already faces a $2.7 billion deficit. Despite the deficit, Mr. Reich and other officials contend the agency is not near the kind of crisis that led to the savings and loan bailout. They say the responsibility for the programs is spread over years so the agency can continue to pay benefits for a long time.
Most pension plans are fully financed, the agency said, adding that those with gaps are concentrated in the automobile and steel industries.
The agency said underfinancing in 1992 increased primarily because of falling interest rates on investments used to finance retirement plans. But it also said that pension contributions by many companies did not keep pace with growing liabilities because of weaknesses in current law.
 
The Effect of Lower Rates
 "With interest rates declining, companies should have been contributing larger amounts to their pension plans to keep their liabilities manageable," Mr. Slate said. "Our reforms will require it. We want to make sure that workers receive the benefits for which they have worked."
Seven companies kept pace with the growing liabilities and, in some cases, reduced their underfinancing in 1992, the agency said.
The Chrysler Corporation, for instance, reduced its gap by more than $3 billion through additional contributions beyond those required. The LTV Corporation cut its underfinancing by more than $700 million.
Still, the agency said the auto industry, with an $18 billion gap, represented 57 percent of the total underfinancing in the 50-company list, while steel companies, with a nearly $7 billion total deficit, accounted for 21 percent.
Twelve companies on the 1991 list were removed from the 1992 list. Ten were removed because of improved financing or because the amount of underfinancing was less than the lowest amount listed. Another, Sharon Steel, terminated its five underfinanced plans.
 
A Dissenting View
 The National Association of Manufacturers has criticized the annual list, saying it creates unnecessary anxiety. It says many companies have legitimate reasons for underfinancing their plans, including newly negotiated union contracts and worse-than-expected investment returns.
Indeed, inclusion on the list does not reflect on a company's financial health nor necessarily mean an employee's benefits are in immediate jeopardy, the agency emphasized.
"Many companies on the list are strong and will be able to fund their pension plans," Mr. Slate said. "However, to better prepare themselves for retirement, participants should know more about their plans' funding and P.B.G.C.'s guarantees."
The Ravenswood Aluminum Corporation was at the top of the list for the second consecutive year, with $100 million in guaranteed liabilities, $11 million in assets and $89 million in unfinanced guaranteed benefits. That meant a financing ratio of 11 percent compared with 12 percent in 1991.
The Unisys Corporation was at the bottom with $2.9 billion in guaranteed liabilities, $2.7 billion in assets and a financing ratio of 95 percent. Unisys was not on the 1991 list.
Here are the 50 companies and the size of their potential shortfalls in unfinanced guaranteed benefit liabilities and financing ratios. The companies are listed in order of the worst financing ratios:
Ravenswood Aluminum Corp., $89 million, 11 percent.
LTV Corp., $1.9 billion, 40 percent.
New Valley Corp. $394 million, 41 percent.
Tenneco Inc., $227 million, 46 percent.
Keystone Consolidated Industries., $109 million, 47 percent.
Loews Corp., $153 million, 51 percent.
Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Co., $450 million, 53 percent.
Laclede Steel Co., $96 million, 55 percent.
Rockwell International Corp., $344 million, 57 percent.
Trans World Airlines Inc., $426 million, 58 percent.
Bridgestone-Firestone Inc., $217 million, 58 percent.
Anchor Glass Co., $111 million, 60 percent.
ACF Industries, $79 million, 61 percent.
Bethlehem Steel Corp., $2.1 billion, 62 percent.
Pacificorp, $226 million, 68 percent.
White Consolidated Industries, $116 million, 68 percent.
Clark Equipment Co., $82 million, 69 percent.
Maxxam Inc., $257 million, 69 percent.
General Motors Corp., $17.2 billion, 70 percent.
American National Can Co., $464 billion, 70 percent.
Budd Co., $146 million. 71 percent.
Mack Trucks Inc., $153 million, 72 percent.
Allegheny Ludlum Corp., $120 million, 73 percent.
Rohr Inc., $121 million, 74 percent.
Crown Cork and Seal Co. Inc., $280 million, 75 percent.
Goodrich (B.F.) Co., $124 million, 76 percent.
James River Corp. of Virginia, $85 million, 76 percent.
Bull Information Systems Inc., $109 million, 76 percent.
Armco Steel Company, L.P., $206 million, 77 percent.
National Intergroup Inc., $151 million, 78 percent.
CSX Corp., $214 million, 79 percent.
Westinghouse Electric Corp., $1 billion, 79 percent.
Reynolds Metals Co., $242 million, 80 percent.
PPG Industries, $219 million, 81 percent.
Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co., $265 million, 83 percent.
Navistar International Corp., $413 million, 83 percent.
Northwest Airlines Inc., $235 million, 84 percent.
Woolworth Corp., $103 million, 84 percent.
Allied Signal Inc., $96 million, 86 percent.
Ceridian Corp., $86 million, 87 percent.
National Steel Corp., $137 million, 88 percent.
Deere & Co., $169 million, 89 percent.
Warner-Lambert Co., $122 million, 89 percent.
Honeywell Inc., $242 million, 90 percent.
Armco Inc., $193 million, 90 percent.
Chrysler Corp., $876 million, 90 percent.
Greyhound Lines Inc., $88 million, 91 percent.
Inland Steel Co., $110 million, 94 percent.
United Technologies Corp., $90 million, 94 percent.
Unisys Corp., $155 million, 95 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (62%); LTV (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (72%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (72%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (72%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (62%); LTV CORP (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: PENSIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FINANCES; CORPORATIONS PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); PENSION REFORM (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); INSURANCE (76%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (74%); SAVINGS & LOANS (71%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (63%); 

PERSON: SLATE, MARTIN HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1993



638 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 21; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA;
Leo Burnett Plans More Layoffs in U.S.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
Leo Burnett U.S.A. of Chicago said yesterday that it planned to lay off about 200 of its 2,200 employees in the United States by the end of the year. The layoffs will be in addition to an early retirement package being offered to about 20 employees. 
 James Jenness, group president of Leo Burnett North America, attributed the layoffs to "changing client needs and a push to operate more efficiently in today's difficult economic environment." Though Burnett generally shuns large-scale layoffs, even after losing accounts, this is the second time in six months that employees are being let go. In May, 52 employees were dismissed in what had been the biggest layoffs since 1983.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: BURNETT, LEO, USA

ORGANIZATION: BURNETT, LEO, USA

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (LABOR); LABOR LAYOFFS (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); EARLY RETIREMENT (85%); PERSONAL FINANCE (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (53%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1993



639 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 104 words

HEADLINE: Congressional Roundup: House Fends Off Effort To Trim Budget Further;
More Money Backed For the Unemployed

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 22

 BODY:
The House tonight passed by a vote of 320 to 105 and sent to President Clinton a long-delayed bill to provide an extra 7 to 13 weeks of unemployment benefits for about a million long-term jobless who had exhausted their basic 26 weeks of benefits. 
 The 13 weeks of benefits would be available to workers in states with the highest rates of unemployment. Currently, workers in Alaska, California, Rhode Island and West Virginia would be eligible for the longer benefits. The measure, which would cost $1.1 billion, has been pending since legislation authorizing the last batch of emergency benefits expired Oct. 2.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); ALASKA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; LABOR LEGISLATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); INSURANCE (86%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (85%); EMPLOYMENT (85%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (82%); INSURANCE LAW (82%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1993



640 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: New York Urged to Shift Cost of Fighting Shore Erosion

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HAUPPAUGE, L.I., Nov. 22

 BODY:
People who live near the shore would pay more in taxes and fees to help protect New York's coastline from storm damage under a plan released today by a state task force.
Local governments and private citizens who would benefit most from coastal anti-erosion projects would be asked to pay more of the cost. The current formula, in which the state pays 70 percent and localities 30 percent for certain projects, would be changed to a 50-50 split. 
 The task force hopes that such a shift would make local officials more resistant to coastal development, since protective measures would have a greater impact on local taxes.
The recommendations are outlined in a final draft report by the Governor's New York City-Long Island-Westchester Coastal Erosion Task Force, established on Jan. 15 after the northeaster of December 1992, which battered the state's coastline with high winds, heavy rain and severe tidal surges. The storm caused almost $1 billion in damage on the coast of New York.
The task force was directed to provide short-term and long-term recommendations on ways the state could best prepare for coastal emergencies.
Some homeowners in particularly vulnerable areas could be asked to pay surcharges on their property taxes. And beachgoers and boaters would pay higher parking and docking fees to help local governments finance the dredging of channels and rebuilding of beaches.
"The study marks the first serious policy discussion in 30 years of what the state should do about its beaches," said Gerald Stoddard, a member of the task force and president of the Fire Island Association, a homeowners' group. "It presents some hard but fair choices."
The study offers three approaches, ranging from a laissez-faire policy, in which nature would take its course with little or no interference by the state, to a policy of preserving the shoreline as it now stands.
The panel, without expressing a preference, stressed the benefits of a middle-of-the-road approach, in which heavily developed areas would get the most protection, while sparsely developed areas would be left, in effect, to nature's whims.
The laissez-faire approach is not without costs, the study warned, since the cost of repairs and the long-term economic impact of a hurricane or heavy storm could be far greater than the cost of preventive measures.
Last December's storm, the 11th such storm to sweep across New York's coastal waters since 1888, generated winds of hurricane force. The sustained storm surge lasted for two days, pushing tides 15 feet to 25 feet above normal, flooding barrier islands, tearing down seawalls and severely eroding bluffs along Long Island Sound.
The coast of New York has also been damaged by 22 hurricanes, the last, Hurricane Bob, on Aug. 19, 1991.
The task force noted that headlands and peninsulas, with their broad views of the sea, attract more development, but are also more vulnerable to storm damage. Portions of New York's coast have been intensely developed for many years, the report noted, but development has spread significantly in the last 40 years, altering major shoreline areas beyond the city.
Left alone, these areas are not inherently hazardous, but they become so when development occurs without regard to the natural coastal process, the report said. The report also cited the damage done by an increase in tourism in the most vulnerable areas.
With this in mind, the task force suggested that the state and local governments use a combination of measures to restore and maintain the shoreline.
Intensively developed areas would have the highest priority for capital projects. Such areas include Coney Island and Rockaway in New York City, and Long Beach and Bayville in Nassau County.
These projects would be conducted in cooperation with the Army Corps of Engineers. The Federal Government would provide about 50 percent of the cost, with the state and local governments splitting the difference.
Second priority for state protection would go to public parks. The amount of maintenance would be based on a cost-benefit formula. For example, Orient Point Beach State Park could receive state funds to repair its entrance road, but not to restore a wide beachfront off the road.
 
Flexible Strategies
 Fred W. Thiele, the Southampton Town Supervisor, said he generally agreed with the task force's conclusions but objected to any formula that increased the local cost of government.
He said that state and Federal policy had created many of the coastal erosion problems, "so it's unfair of them to come along and ask us to pay for their mistakes.'
The public will be able to comment on the proposals at public meetings Nov. 30 in the Lennox Room at Bethpage State Park and in the Alliance Room at the State University of New York at Stony Brook. Both meetings begin at 7 P.M.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COAST EROSION; TAXATION COASTAL AREAS (93%); WEATHER (91%); EROSION (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); HURRICANES (89%); BEACHES (89%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); EROSION CONTROL (77%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (72%); HARBORS & PORTS (72%); MARINE & WATERWAY CONSTRUCTION (65%); 

PERSON: MCQUISTON, JOHN T

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1993



641 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Wider Gap In City Budget Is Projected

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

 BODY:
Offering his final projections for New York City's budget, Mayor David N. Dinkins announced yesterday that his successor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, would face a projected gap of $1.73 billion in the budget he must have outlined by January, about $450 million more than projections only three months ago.
The widening gap reflects not new or unexpected costs but rather the effects of a number of decisions to stop counting on revenues that require outside actions, like the assumption by the state of the city's share of Medicaid costs. 
 Mr. Giuliani's budget advisers have expected a shortfall, but the projected increase in the budget gap for the fiscal year beginning next July underscored the huge difficulties Mr. Giuliani faces as he tries to enact new policies and balance the budget.
"We think that there may be a fiscal crisis coming next year that may require unusual and decisive steps," said Richard W. Schwartz, the deputy executive director of Mr. Giuliani's transition.
 
$281 Million Reserve
 In making his quarterly adjustments to the city's financial plan, Mr. Dinkins said his administration had succeeded in balancing this year's $31.5 billion budget and had even left a reserve of $281 million -- higher, he noted, than any reserve at this point in the fiscal year since 1986.
"We've made every effort to see to it that they have as much help as possible," Mr. Dinkins said.
But the projections for next year's budget, the first Mr. Giuliani will prepare, have worsened significantly since August, when the administration anticipated a shortfall of only $1.27 billion.
Of the $455 million in increases, the administration included, for example, $135 million in spending on schools, including money for the installation of metal detectors, that were approved only for this year's budget but would be needed again.
It also opted not to include $131 million it had hoped to receive from a state takeover of the city's Medicaid costs that was proposed by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo. That proposal is stalled in the State Legislature.
The financial projections, announced at City Hall by Mr. Dinkins and his budget director, Carol O'Cleireacain, underscored the growing difficulties of balancing the city's budget. The projections showed that the city's budget gap would grow to $2.5 billion for the fiscal year 1996 and $2.7 billion for 1997, unless corrective measures are taken.
Although the economy is expected to improve steadily, the city's tax revenues are not expected to grow as fast as spending at least until 1997, according to the budget report prepared by Ms. O'Cleireacain's office.
"The economy is just not growing fast enough to catch up with expenditures," said the First Deputy Mayor, Norman Steisel.
Mr. Dinkins succeeded in balancing this year's budget -- as the law requires -- without making any more of the sharp cuts he ordered in July under pressure from fiscal monitors and Standard & Poor's, the credit rating agency.
 
Increases in Overtime
 The administration had faced a deficit of $295 million in this year's budget, largely because of increased overtime for firefighters and police officers, increases in the number of people on welfare and a decline in parking ticket revenue.
Mr. Dinkins's budget office also removed from its revenue projections an estimated $55 million from the sale of the Off-Track Betting Corporation, which has not occurred. In the mayoral campaign, Mr. Giuliani described the inclusion of revenues from a sale of OTB that had not yet taken place as a gimmick Mr. Dinkins had used to balance the budget.
Speaking to reporters after a meeting at the Harlem Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Giuliani repeated that criticism and complained that the Dinkins administration had done nothing to deal with the perennial shortfalls in the city's budgets.
When asked about his remarks, Mr. Dinkins responded angrily.
"The campaign is over," he said. "The poetry has ended. It's time for prose. This is government. And I have tried every way I know how to work with the incoming administration."
 
Increase in Welfare Spending
 Mr. Dinkins and his aides dismissed suggestions that the timing of the adjustments after Election Day was in any way political. Mr. Dinkins, for example, said the decision to remove the revenues from a sale of OTB because "we don't expect to achieve it this year."
Likewise, Mr. Steisel said, the decision to remove $131 million the city hoped to receive from the Medicaid takeover was made when it became clear that the Legislature would not take up the issue in its special session.
In addition to counting the one-time education costs and eliminating the expected windfall from a state takeover of Medicaid, several other factors accounted for the rise in next year's budget gap. They included an increase of $67 million in spending on welfare and other social services and $42 million for teachers' salaries as part of the contract reached with the United Federation of Teachers that takes effect in January.
Mr. Dinkins and his aides underlined the point that most of the projected increases had either been mandated by contracts or by state or Federal law.
 
Declines to Suggest Cuts
 Only $30 million of the increase was "discretionary spending" that the Mayor has control over, including $11 million in benefits to unmarried domestic partners of city workers that Mr. Dinkins approved earlier this year.
"These adjustments are essentially technical, accounting or the lack of state action," Mr. Steisel said. "They do not indicate any laxity or loss of control of the budget. It's not like we shifted problems because we were inefficient or mismanaged, into fiscal year 1995."
Mr. Dinkins declined to discuss what cuts he would have made, saying, "The people did not re-elect me." He suggested one potential savings: eliminating the 20 minutes police officers are given to dress and wash up at the start of their shifts, which could save an estimated $40 million.
"I can't do that," Mr. Dinkins said. "Maybe he can."
Neither Mr. Giuliani nor his aides specified yesterday how they would try to close the $1.7 billion gap.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Carol O'Cleireacain, budget director, left, announcing budget projections for this year and for fiscal years 1995-97 yesterday at City Hall. Mayor David N. Dinkins and Deputy Mayor Norman Steisel also spoke. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available BUDGETS (96%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); MAYORS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); TAKEOVERS (79%); CITIES (78%); MEDICAID (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); APPROVALS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (72%); EXECUTIVES (67%); METAL DETECTORS (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1993



642 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: A Teen-Age Pall at the Mall;
After-School Gatherings Please Youths but Are Worrying Many Others

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, Nov. 22

 BODY:
On the days Joel Rosario goes to school, he heads over to the Chapel Square Mall in the late afternoon to hang out with his friends and to meet girls. When he doesn't go to school, Mr. Rosario says he goes there even earlier.
Mr. Rosario, 16, is one of hundreds of teen-agers who congregate in the downtown New Haven mall every afternoon and have created a prickly public relations problem for the mall. 
 Fearing that the teen-agers were scaring off other customers, the mall's management this month proposed banning teen-agers from the mall in the late afternoon.
Around the city, negative reaction was so swift and overwhelming that the idea was quickly abandoned. But experts say the proposal reflects an increasing problem in urban malls, which rely on an image of order and security to attract wary suburbanites.
 
A Nationwide Problem
 Malls across the country face the same situation, said Robert J. McGuire, a former New York City Police Commissioner and president of Kroll Associates, one of the largest private security companies in the world. He said that most malls were not designed to control the large numbers of teen-agers "that have made malls their downtown" and that many are considering increased security and curfews to insure that older shoppers feel safe.
Mr. McGuire said one mall was considering "piping in Beethoven instead of hard rock" to discourage teen-agers from hanging out.
In the case of the Chapel Square Mall proposal, everyone from the teen-agers to the Mayor said it was discriminatory and aimed largely at minority-group members.
 
Staying Out of Trouble
 "They've got to be kidding," Mr. Rosario said. "They can't keep us out of the mall. We're the biggest customers in here. Where else would we go? At least this way we're not hanging out on the streets."
Cherie Lee, 16, a junior at Wilbur Cross High School, said the idea of keeping teen-agers out of the mall was silly. "Kids come here to stay out of trouble and to shop," she said. "They would only be hurting the kids and hurting themselves if they kept us out."
Store owners agreed. "The kids are our main market; the only way we can survive is to cater to them, not restrict their access," said Stephen Watson, the owner of Elm City Subs and the president of the mall merchants' association. "You don't want hundreds of kids loitering around, but you also don't want to chase away your main customer base, either. We've got to find a better way to deal with this."
The plan to restrict teen-agers was presented to school officials, city officials and the police after one teen-ager shot another outside the mall, but it has been abandoned as infeasible, said Martin Fortes, the vice president and general manager of the 70-store mall. He said it had been conceived as a way of expanding on a policy of the mall's management company, the Rouse Company, to keep students out of malls during school hours.
"But our biggest problem is not during the school day," he said. "It's the hours after school when a lot of kids come here to hang out. Frankly, the response we got on the proposal was not favorable, so now we're looking at other ways to deal with the problem, such as more security and a stronger police presence."
Cathy Lickteig, the vice president and director of corporate public affairs for the Rouse Company in Columbia, Md., said: "The problem of kids coming into malls after school and hanging out between 3 and 5 is not unique to the Chapel Square Mall. It's happening in urban malls all over the country." She added, however, that it would violate company policy to limit the access of teen-agers.
Assistant Police Chief Melvin Wearing said the Police Department had advised mall officials that such a plan was unworkable.
"We told them we didn't think it was possible because of the legal implications," Chief Wearing said. "You can't keep people out. That's not the way to deal with the situation at all."
 
Sales Are the Problem
 Matthew Nemerson, the president of the Greater New Haven Chamber of Commerce, said the mall's greatest problem was not teen-agers, but diminishing sales -- which are down by about one-third because of the recession and the closing of Macy's, which was considered the mall's anchor, in June.
But patrons and employees said they did not feel safe in the mall. They said that drug-dealing went on outside and across the street at the New Haven Green and sometimes spilled over into the mall, and that teen-agers often congregated in crowds that harassed shoppers.
"I've been coming here since it opened, but I don't feel safe here anymore," said Pattie Hardy, 38, of New Haven. "It's gone way downhill in recent years, and the senior citizens especially don't like to come anymore. My father will only come in the morning, and I don't like coming myself, but sometimes I can't avoid it." But Ms. Hardy said she didn't think restricting teen-agers was the answer. "That would be a violation of their rights," she said.
But several employees at the mall supported the idea of restricting teen-agers. "They need to do something, and fast, because it's a very dangerous place to be," said a sales clerk who spoke on condition of anonymity.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hundreds of teen-agers congregate in Chapel Square Mall in downtown New Haven. Though the teens are the main market for many stores, many experts fear they scare customers. A police officer, right, monitored the mall. (Carl David LaBianca for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHAPEL SQUARE MALL (NEW HAVEN)

ORGANIZATION: CHAPEL SQUARE MALL (NEW HAVEN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; NEW HAVEN (CONN) UNITED STATES (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS; TEENAGERS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH ADOLESCENTS (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RETAILERS (86%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); LOITERING & VAGRANCY (78%); POLICE FORCES (74%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); CURFEW (71%); INVESTIGATION & SECURITY SERVICES (68%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (52%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1993



643 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: OUR TOWNS;
A Seeker of Mystery Takes Stock of Suburbs

BYLINE: By Jonathan Rabinovitz

DATELINE: MONTCLAIR, N.J.

 BODY:
IT was a dark and stormy night. As the wind whistled through the trees, the lights in the spacious Victorian and colonial homes beckoned with the promise of warmth and shelter.
A blue Volvo station wagon slowly cruised the street, its driver speaking in a hushed voice as he cautioned that this neighborhood, one of the most desirable in Montclair, was home to unhappy secrets. 
 "I see families murdered all the time here," said Jon Katz, the man behind the wheel.
You might take this statement with a grain of salt because Mr. Katz is a mystery writer and the creator of Doubleday's Suburban Detective Mystery series.
But what others dismiss as the daily tribulations of two-career couples and their children, this writer sees as tragedy. In the case of the murdered families, Mr. Katz was referring to divorce, not homicide, which has ravaged the neighborhood.
For Mr. Katz, mystery writing is largely a cover for his trenchant, almost anthropological, musings about suburbia, and he abounds with theories about the daily rituals here. He delights in talking about the significance of a teen-ager turning back the visor of his cap on entering a mall, or why so many mothers use four-wheel-drive Jeeps to pick up their children ("Battle-wagons to negotiate the difficult terrain of suburbia," he says).
"Raising kids is the only industry in these towns," he explained, and the suburban baby boomers have an all-consuming desire to "create the best place for children to live in the history of the planet." This struggle for perfection takes its toll, and "no one is looking at its effects," he said.
The crimes in Mr. Katz's books are imagined, but he intends them to be the ultimate nightmares of every suburbanite. And the inspiration, he readily admits, comes from his life in Montclair, a town he adores.
In his first mystery, "Murder by Station Wagon" (Doubleday: 1993), the child-obsessed parents of the fictional town of Rochambeau, N.J., are gripped by mass hysteria after the apparent murder-suicide of two honor students. It is left to the mild-mannered Christopher (Kit) Deleeuw, an unemployed bond trader who has opened a detective's office above a mall, to car pool his way (in a Volvo, of course) through a tangle of suburban anxieties and solve the case.
Although the book revels in the fictional town's neuroses -- from a retiree in love with his power mower to a mother who follows her son's school bus in case he suddenly needs her -- it has been embraced by Mr. Katz's neighbors. A local book store has sold more than 400 hardcover copies, and when he walks his white Labrador, Julius, people run up to him with ideas for killings in future books.
On a recent afternoon, over a sugar-free strawberry Jell-O at his favorite diner, Mr. Katz, 46, said he had feared he would have to leave when the book came out. "But they've just laughed at it," he said. "They wanted to read fiction about their own lives."
A balding, affable Teddy-bear of a man, Mr. Katz has lived here nine years with his wife, Paula Span, and daughter, Emma. His day is filled with writing, chores and child care. One friend has dubbed him the "Prince of Rides," because he shuttles some 15 children to ballet classes, music lessons and soccer games.
His writer/househusband persona, however, is a universe away from his previous life as an executive producer for "The CBS Morning News," a job he quit ("I was about to be fired anyway," he says) so he could watch his daughter grow up. Even today, he is better known as a media critic for Rolling Stone magazine than for "Death by Station Wagon" and a previous novel, "Sign Off."
Still, a Hollywood studio is considering making Mr. Katz's detective, Kit DeLeeuw, into a television hero, and the deal with Doubleday calls for at least three books in the series. The second ("The Family Stalker") is due out in March and his third ("The Last Housewife") is almost done.
Initially, some publishers rejected Mr. Katz's proposals, skeptical about the "sensitive male" private eye and the suburban setting. One critic questioned if Rochambeau was too benign a place to hold readers' interest.
Such criticisms cause Mr. Katz to bridle.
"The suburbs are riveting," he insisted.
"I've seen families fall apart. There are unemployed men trying to piece together their world, kids dealing with alcoholism and extramarital affairs, and working mothers who choke back tears as they walk out the door in the morning and their 2-year-old cries for them to come back.
"Having kids is this incomparable drama," he said, and in Montclair "these upper-middle-class parents are terrified by the idea that they could mess up."
"All of this," he remarked, "is white-knuckled stuff." And it is, perhaps, the stuff of great mysteries.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jon Katz, a mystery writer whose turf is suburbia, taking a pause from his research patrols with his dog, Julius, in Montclair, N.J. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MONTCLAIR (NJ) UNITED STATES (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE MURDER (90%); WRITERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SUBURBS (90%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (77%); HOMICIDE (76%); LITERATURE (75%); BOOK REVIEWS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); SUICIDE (69%); BONDS (69%); BOOKSTORES (63%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (60%); BABY BOOMERS (50%); 

PERSON: RABINOVITZ, JONATHAN; KATZ, JON

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1993



644 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: China Stiffs the President

 BODY:
Braving criticism by human rights activists and their supporters in Congress, President Clinton held out the hand of diplomatic compromise to China's President, Jiang Zemin, in Seattle last Friday. What he got in return was an unyielding lecture on China's hard-line positions.
Nobody realistically expected China to announce dramatic changes in its human rights, arms sales and trading policies on the spot. But by failing to reciprocate Washington's carefully planned package of good-will gestures, Beijing confounds the Administration's efforts to reverse an alarming slide in U.S.-China relations. 
 Washington took the initiative to repair relations in September, shortly after imposing sanctions over the Chinese transfer of missile technology to Pakistan. Talks over trade issues were going nowhere and Beijing had made no significant progress toward the human rights goals Mr. Clinton had made the basis for renewing its favorable tariff status next year.
Without surrendering basic principles, Washington softened its tactics -- toning down its rhetoric on human rights, loosening restrictions on sales of military technology and ending four years of punitive restrictions on meetings between high-level officials.
The idea was to take more account of Chinese considerations of "face." The Administration replaced unilateral demands for Chinese concessions with offers of dialogue. And it gave priority to issues already covered by Chinese laws or bilateral agreements.
The highest-profile gesture, to citizens in both countries, was Mr. Clinton's personal meeting with Mr. Jiang, held on the sidelines of the Seattle economic summit meetings. But given China's obsession with issues of "face," it was strange that Mr. Jiang offered no gestures of his own to protect Mr. Clinton's political position.
Even so, Friday's meeting was not wasted. Each side had a useful opportunity to learn exactly what was on the other's mind. If, over the coming weeks and months, China begins to respond substantively to America's main concerns, relations will surely warm. But by rejecting the President's outstretched hand, Beijing once again undermined its supporters in this country and armed its critics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EDITORIALS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); ARMS TRADE (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (74%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (74%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1993



645 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
Waiting for China

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
Sometime in June we and they will find out what President Clinton was able to accomplish in Seattle.
Results on the economic agenda, the President's hopes for a great Asian-Pacific-American trade zone, will take a lot longer to judge -- years. 
 But by June we who live in freedom and they who live in Chinese prison cells for asking for freedom will find out whether the President will get action from Beijing on Washington's modest human rights proposals.
By July 3, 1994, the President has to announce whether the Communists are treating Chinese political prisoners and the captive nation of Tibet with any greater sense of decency.
If not, he is bound by his own signature on an executive order to cancel China's privilege of paying lowest available tariffs on exports to the U.S. -- a privilege extended to most nations. That is the expressed desire of Congress.
In Seattle, the President concentrated publicly on his vision of a united economic future. Fair enough -- that is why he invited the heads of government to come and talk.
But I am told by officials I trust that the President did not gloss over the human rights confrontation when he met Jiang Zemin. He put it all before the Chinese President.
The U.S. requests are: Release sick political prisoners. Tell the world how many Chinese freedom fighters rot in the cells of the politically damned; what are their names? Stop torture as a routine form of penological administration. Allow international inspection of prisons. End prison and forced labor as a cost cutter in foreign trade. And talk seriously with the Dalai Lama about easement and hope for Tibet.
Mr. Jiang did not give an inch. But American specialists hope that he carries the message clear: This White House does not want to lift the tariff privileges but means business and will do so if Beijing fails to move.
Now, there are ways for Washington to get out of that, like accepting symbolism and promises. But unlike his predecessor, Mr. Clinton did put it straight to the Chinese. There is no reason to assume now that he will wiggle out of his word.
But trusting the President does not mean being stupid about Beijing. Americans act as if the Communists are dim-witted children. All we have to do is talk in a loud clear voice so they will understand. Then, offer them cookies, to swallow with the human rights medicine.
That is what the U.S. is doing now -- releasing a cookie high-tech computer, talking about selling cookie components for a nuclear plant.
The Communists are not fools. They scream that talking human rights to them is gross interference. But they know that is hogwash. They have signed on to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the U.N. Charter, which make human rights the business of the world. And they know that none of America's human rights requests touch the tiger-teeth laws and police power that are the basis of their control.
Yet they grab the cookies and throw the medicine on the floor. They believe rule by fear will lessen total control, and won't chance it.
Interesting about dictatorships: with the largest army on earth, and economic boom, still the Communists tremble at the thought of human rights. No, no fools.
And they do not believe the U.S. really means business. Why should they, when the U.S. did not follow through before and now offers a new batch of cookies?
Beijing knows too that the U.S. business community is against making rights progress a condition of trade with China.
I gaze in fond wonder at my business friends, virtuosi of a money piano I don't know how to play. The profit motive fuels the world. But used to help build up dictatorships it has flooded the engine with war and death, from Hitler to Tojo to Saddam.
Nobody asks for "isolation" of China -- that's a straw herring. The human rights community -- Americans in every part and party of the U.S. -- simply says that when we do business with a government that rules by torture and slave labor, we do not have to give the best possible terms. That seems particularly reasonable when the torturers already sell us $20 billion more than they buy.
Mr. Clinton is giving Beijing every chance. He waits to see if his new approach works. So do we and they.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); TIBET (92%); ASIA (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (72%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); TIBET (92%); ASIA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (72%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICAL PRISONERS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); PRISONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (88%); DALAI LAMA (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1993



646 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: HOUSE, 255 TO 175, VOTES TO RESTRICT CAMPAIGN SPENDING

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 22

 BODY:
Weighing public demands for campaign reform against the high cost of seeking re-election, House members today approved a change in campaign finance laws that includes voluntary limits on spending and the first public financing of Congressional campaigns.
No one can say with certainty what impact the measure will have, but if enacted it would represent the first effort to limit the advantages of incumbency since 1974, when Congress regulated political contributions in the wake of the Watergate scandal. 
 The Senate has already passed a very different measure that eliminates political action committee contributions and does not include public financing. But public pressures are building on the two chambers to reconcile their differences and enact a campaign finance bill next year.
 
Dunce Cap and Clown Nose
 The 255-to-175 vote came largely along party lines: voting for the bill were 232 Democrats, 22 Republicans and 1 independent; voting against were 24 Democrats and 151 Republicans.
Later this evening, the House finished its year's work by handing President Clinton another budget victory, defeated an effort led by freshmen members to cut the deficit far more deeply than his plan would. [Page B8.]
The vote on campaign financing came after a raucous debate, during which Representative Robert L. Livingston, Republican of Louisiana, brought the spirit of Mardi Gras to the House floor by putting on a dunce cap and bulbous clown nose to make fun of the Democrats. Shortly afterward, Representative David R. Obey, Democrat of Wisconsin, split his gavel when banging it in a futile effort to quiet the large New York delegation.
All the fireworks reflected the fact that every House member cares deeply about campaign donations, which they spend enormous amounts of time collecting. The measure would limit candidates to $200,000 in contributions from political action committees, which are cooperatives that pool campaign money for special interests. It sets a voluntary spending maximum for House campaigns at $800,000, and as an incentive to abide by the limit, it promises candidates who accede to the measure up to $200,000 in vouchers to buy advertising. The limits would apply to the total raised or spent in primary and general election campaigns.
But the bill would not take effect until Congress enacts separate legislation to finance the vouchers, which would probably be financed by taxes on campaign contributions as well as voluntary checkoffs on tax returns.
It is not yet clear how much of an impact the bill would have on campaigns, since the limits would be voluntary and subject to exceptions, and there is no way of knowing how many candidates would accept them. In some campaigns, candidates would gain political points from voters by accepting the limits; in others, candidates facing expensive primary races would probably choose not to accept a spending limit of only $800,000.
The median winning House campaign in 1992 cost $462,843, but candidates often spent more in cities and other places in large television markets, where campaign commercials are expensive. Winners spent as much as $4 million. Representative Tom Downey of Long Island spent over $1 million and lost.
"I have a firm conviction that very important, significant, meaningful campaign finance reform legislation will be enacted," said Speaker Thomas S. Foley of Washington, who expressed confidence that a compromise could be reached in a Senate-House conference committee next year.
"For the first time we will have elections and not auctions to the highest bidder," said Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, Democrat of Manhattan, who cosponsored the legislation.
 
'Important Step Forward'
 Some campaign-reform advocates say the limits could help stem the rise in campaign costs, which have risen well above the inflation rate in recent years. "The House of Representatives has taken a very important step forward," said Fred Wertheimer, president of Common Cause. "The key to the House-passed campaign finance bill is the substantial clean resources that are authorized for House candidates in the form of communications vouchers to match small contributions."
The Democratic bill was passed after members rejected by a vote of 263 to 173 a Republican alternative that would have eliminated political action committees and required that the majority of campaign funds originate from the district a candidate is running in. It would also have forbidden the use of "soft money," contributions that go to party organizations and are not subject to contribution limits or strict reporting requirements.
The debate on the floor was highly partisan, touching on the contentious legal issues that arise from proposals to limit expressions of support for political candidates. But the speeches centered on Democratic contentions that Republicans want to maximize the influence of individual millionaire donors and Republican assertions that Democrats want to protect the influence of what they called "politically correct" political action committees.
"Even pretending that $200,000 in PAC money is somehow a limit is absurd," said Representative Peter G. Torkildsen, a Massachusetts Republican. "That would be the same as telling a mass murderer that he would be limited to 200 murderers per year in the interest of reducing crime."
Democrats said that for all the faults of PAC money, at least it was easily identified by the news media and political opponents. Because such donations often become a campaign issue, the Democrats argued, voters can reject candidates they believe are beholden to special interest money.
"If you eliminate PAC's," said Mr. Obey, the Wisconsin Democrat, "all you do is drive the money trail underground."
From all the partisan bickering emerged a rare exclamation of frankness from Representative Karen Shepherd, a Utah Democrat. "We are all experts on what serves us best and serves our parties best," she told her colleagues, "but not necessarily what serves our country best."
The most important part of the House bill creates a voluntary spending limit of $600,000 for House candidates, which increases to $800,000 in cases where candidates win closely contested primaries or if the candidate must compete in a runoff election. Those caps would be set in 1992 dollars, and indexed for inflation.
The bill would also prohibit candidates from taking more than a total of $200,000 during an election cycle from individuals who each contribute over $200. The limits on large individual and PAC contributions would be lifted when candidates face opponents who make personal contributions of loans of more than $50,000 to his own campaign. The spending limits would also not apply to candidates whose opponents do not accept the voluntary limits and who raise or spend more than $150,000.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 24, 1993, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article in some copies yesterday about the House vote on a deficit-reduction proposal overstated the share of freshmen House members who supported the plan. Fifty-five percent of the freshmen backed the proposal, not 75 percent.

GRAPHIC: Photo: House Speaker Thomas S. Foley was joined by, from the left, Representatives Rosa DeLauro, Sam Gejdenson, Lynn Schenk and Anna Eshoo at a news conference yesterday about campaign finance reform. (Jose R. Lopez/The New York Times) (pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) ; CONGRESS (US) ROBERT L SIGMON (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) ; CONGRESS (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FINANCES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ELECTIONS, PUBLIC FINANCING OF; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES ; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING CAMPAIGN FINANCE (95%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); DAVE OBEY (58%); ANNA G ESHOO (58%); ROSA DELAURO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1993



647 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: U.S. May Dilute Earlier Threats To North Korea

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 22

 BODY:
A day before President Clinton meets South Korea's President to discuss the standoff on nuclear inspections in North Korea, South Korean officials said they feared the Administration may be pursuing too conciliatory a policy.
Mr. Clinton said today that he intended to seek an endorsement from President Kim Young Sam for a "new approach" to encourage North Korea to comply with international regulations.
He gave no details, but South Korean officials indicated that they worried that the revised strategy might be too conciliatory. 
 Mr. Clinton spoke at a news conference with President Fidel Ramos of the Phillipines. At the talks with Mr. Ramos, a year after the last United States troops left the Philippines, Mr. Clinton sought to emphasize steps to ease frictions that accompanied the forced withdrawal.
Administration officials said the new strategy toward North Korea would offer inducements to encourage openness, giving less emphasis to a standing threat of economic sanctions. They said South Korean reservations were based on the concern that Washington's policy mirrored too closely a North Korean request for a "package solution" of economic, military and political benefits in return for compliance on nuclear inspection.
A senior State Department official said tonight that the South Koreans wanted to talk about the timing and extent of any rewards offered. But, he said, "at the end of the day we'll be able to work something out."
Mr. Clinton said his weekend meetings with the leaders of Japan, China and other Asian countries at a forum on Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation in Seattle had added to his determination to end the impasse caused by North Korea's suspected development of nuclear weapons.
"It was obvious to me that no one in the region wants North Korea to become a nuclear power," he said, "so we're going to do everything we can, in close consultation with the countries most affected in the region, to try to find a resolution to this."
The meeting between Mr. Clinton and Mr. Ramos reflected the White House's increased attention on Asian issues. It was the first meeting between the leaders since the withdrawal of the forces, and they went out of their way to call for a new partnership.
As a gesture of good will, Mr. Clinton and Mr. Ramos agreed to work toward a treaty allowing extradition of criminal suspects. The absence of such an accord has added periodically to tensions, and the men described it as a symbol of a friendship they said remained crucial.
The closing of the last United States base, at Subic Bay, drew the curtain on an era that began with the capture of the islands from Spain in 1898, and caused frustration among Navy officials unable to find an alternative home base in the Pacific.
But at the news conference at the White House this afternoon, Mr. Clinton emphasized that the closing "has not changed the basis for continuing cooperation between our two nations."
And Mr. Ramos, whose Government has already transformed Subic Bay into a bustling free-trade zone, said a partnership should "be anchored more firmly than ever before on the benefits that both our nations derive from our economic relationship."
 
Getting Past an Anachronism
 Mr. Ramos, a former Defense Minister who succeeded Corazon Aquino as President 18 months ago, made clear he had no regret about the decision to force the American withdrawal. He called the basing of United States aircraft, troops and naval vessels in the Phillipines "an arrangement that belonged to the cold-war era."
Mr. Clinton was quick to echo Mr. Ramos's descriptions of the bases as anachronistic. But he was also pointed in his praise of Mr. Ramos for permitting a visit by a United States ship and allowing a joint exercise by American and Filipino troops.
Mr. Ramos, a 1950 graduate of West Point, told an audience at the Center for Strategic and International Studies earlier in the day that a United States engagement in Asia was necessary "to insure that no power dominates the region."
He also had lunch at the White House today with Vice President Al Gore, in part to talk about the environmental problems facing his country.
 
Hope for Kidnapped American
 Mr. Ramos also referred to Charles Walton, a language scholar from Philadelphia who was kidnapped by Muslim extremists eight days ago from a remote island 600 miles south of Manila.
Mr. Ramos said the investigators charged with securing Dr. Walton's freedom were being led by Vice President Joseph Estrada, and he expressed hope that the scholar "will be recovered safely very soon."
Mr. Ramos came to Washington at the end of a two-week tour of the United States to promote investment. He is to return to the Philippines on Tuesday aboard a newly purchesed Boeing 747-400 airliner that will land at the former naval base in Subic Bay to call attention to its conversion to a free port.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 24, 1993, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about American policy toward North Korea referred incorrectly in some editions to a meeting between President Clinton and President Kim Young Sam of South Korea. It was yesterday, not this coming Friday. A report about the meeting appears today on page A16.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); PHILIPPINES (92%); ASIA (92%); SPAIN (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; PHILIPPINES KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); PHILIPPINES (92%); ASIA (92%); SPAIN (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; KIDNAPPING ; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; EXTRADITION INSPECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EXTRADITION (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ARMED FORCES (69%); NAVIES (69%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); RAMOS, FIDEL (PRES); KIM YOUNG SAM (PRES); WALTON, CHARLES ; JEHL, DOUGLAS BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1993



648 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1701 words

HEADLINE: STRIKE AT AMERICAN AIRLINES;
Airline Strike Ends as Clinton Steps In

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 22

 BODY:
Striking American Airlines flight attendants decided today to end their walkout after President Clinton took the unusual step of brokering an agreement between the union and the airline to submit the labor dispute to binding arbitration.
Mr. Clinton announced the end of the impasse at an afternoon news conference that began barely 20 minutes after the airline and the flight attendants signed off on a plan that was put together by top Administration officials in just a few hours. He said the resolution, which puts the contract dispute before a mutually agreed-upon arbitrator, was intended to allow Thanksgiving holiday travel to return to normal. 
 "I want to encourage all the people involved in the American Airlines family to now return to work together without any bitterness and with a spirit of mutual respect as they attempt to work through these issues through binding arbitration," Mr. Clinton said.
 
Very Direct Actions
 "This company and its employees are a very important part of the American economy," he added, "a very important part of the airline sector that has been troubled for the last couple of years and that is a very important part of our high-tech future."
Mr. Clinton's actions today -- which included personal telephone calls to the chairman of American Airlines and the president of the flight attendants union -- were the most direct steps the White House has taken to influence the outcome of a work stoppage since President Reagan dismissed striking air traffic controllers in 1981. President Bush refused to intervene in an Eastern Airlines strike in 1989 and gave his approval to Federal intervention in a freight-rail strike in 1992 only after Congress passed a law calling for such action.
The White House took pains today to avoid having it appear that Mr. Clinton was taking sides in the dispute, saying he had merely "facilitated" talks between the two parties and had neither threatened to impose a solution nor suggested remedies for the underlying issues in the strike.
 
Joy and Disappointment
 But airline officials said Mr. Clinton brought the weight of his office to bear on the airline in arguing the case for binding arbitration, an approach that had been favored by the union.
"He's the elected leader of the country," said Robert L. Crandall, the chairman of American Airlines, at a news conference in Dallas. "For any citizen or any company or any union to say 'No, I won't do that' to the President requires an awfully good reason."
Union officials immediately hailed the action as a victory, but Mr. Crandall said he was disappointed; arbitration would mean splitting the difference, he said, a sacrifice that American could not afford. On Sunday, he rejected a request from the flight attendants' union for emergency Federal mediation.
Mr. Clinton said he intended only to get the airline flying again in advance of the Thanksgiving holidays. American officials said the flight attendants had not formally returned to work this evening but were holding meetings to arrange a smooth return on Tuesday. Judy Milne, a member of the executive committee of the flight attendants union, said all union members were to be back at work on Tuesday.
One Federal transportation official said: "Our principal interest all along was to mitigate the impact to the traveling public going into the holiday weekend. We don't want to establish the precedent that we are involved in every labor negotiation."
The talks brokered by the White House moved rapidly and were concluded within hours, with much of the real dealing done by aides to the President. Mr. Clinton was drawn into the direct discussions when Bruce Lindsey, a senior adviser who acts as a troubleshooter for the President, pulled him out of a midafternoon meeting with President Fidel Ramos of the Philippines to make the telephone calls from the Oval Office.
 
'Their Agreement
 "This was not our agreement, this was their agreement," said a senior Administration official who was involved in the talks but insisted on anonymity so Mr. Clinton's remarks would not be overshadowed. "We simply helped facilitate the discussion, and there were no discussions of the ultimate terms of any labor contract. That will have to be determined between the parties and by arbitration."
Mr. Clinton spoke separately to Mr. Crandall, the airline chairman, and Denise Hedges, the head of the flight attendants' union, and said afterward that both sides had agreed to binding arbitration.
American Airlines' dispute with its attendants was touched off by disagreements over its proposed contract. American offered to raise the salaries of attendants with 14 years or more experience to $36,430 in four years from the current $32,745. The flight attendants felt that raise was insufficient, particularly because American wanted attendants to pay for more of their health care coverage.
The airline also wanted more control over staffing levels on planes. The contract with the union, for example, now requires four attendants on a Boeing 727, regardless of how many passengers are on board. American wanted to lower that level to the minimum of three attendants required by the Government on trips when a plane is less than full.
The union members hailed Mr. Clinton's actions during an exuberant rally and news conference near Dallas this afternoon.
As hundreds of flight attendants chanted "Thank You, Bill," Ms. Hedges praised Mr. Clinton's "thoughtful and timely intervention."
"We owe a lot to the fact that we have a Democratic Administration that understands the value of working people and the role that labor unions play," said Robert Clayman, the negotiating counsel for the union.
Mr. Crandall said, however, that he had agreed to arbitration only because of the nature of the request.
"It is clearly unusual for the President to intervene in a matter of this type," Mr. Crandall said in a letter to American employees. "In view of his national responsibilities, we think his requests are entitled to great deference."
 
Potential Travel Nightmare
 "Although we prefer a different approach, we are anxious to put our airplanes back in the air and put our people back to work," Mr. Crandall said.
Donald J. Carty, American's chief financial officer, said: "I don't think there's any question we don't like it. We don't like it at all."
American officials said they would fly 60 to 70 percent of scheduled flights on Tuesday and 85 percent of its flights by Wednesday, the day before Thanksgiving.
Mr. Crandall said the strike would have "a dramatic adverse impact on the fourth quarter" profits for the airline. Some analysts have estimated that American was losing from $10 million to $25 million a day during the strike.
The five-day walkout had also threatened to become a transportation nightmare during the busiest weekend of travel in the year, and officials from the Departments of Transportation and Labor, who had been monitoring the situation since before the strike began, urged the White House to step into the fray today.
In persuading Mr. Crandall to submit to arbitration, Mr. Clinton got American to back off from its threats to replace the striking workers. Mr. Clinton's intervention may also help him win back friends in the labor movement who were alienated by his vigorous support for the North American Free Trade Agreement.
"I really think we won," said Shari Hoff, a flight attendant who had been preparing to head to the picket line when she heard the news on television and attended the Dallas victory rally. "Crandall said he wouldn't agree to arbitration, and Clinton made him do it."
"I think the Government always has a role in trying to get the parties to talk to each other," a senior Administration official said today. "And that's simply all we did today."
 
Power to Appoint Board
 Mr. Clinton, like any President, has the power under Federal law to declare a transportation emergency if labor disruptions are thought to interfere with interstate commerce or to deprive a region of essential services. After an emergency declaration, the President must establish a Presidential Emergency Board to mediate the dispute.
White House officials said that such steps were neither contemplated nor deemed necessary to resolve the American standoff.
"If either side at any point had said 'No,' that would have been the end of it," one official said.
The White House began monitoring the labor situation at American last Tuesday when Christine Varney, the White House official who acts as liaison among Cabinet secretaries, started meeting with Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich and Transportation Secretary Federico F. Pena. Aides to the officials concluded over the weekend that White House intervention would be needed, and Mr. Pena advised Vice President Al Gore of the situation on Sunday evening.
Mr. Lindsey began making phone calls on Monday morning, making contact with lawyers for American and with Ms. Hedges. After a meeting among Mr. Lindsey, Robert Rubin of the National Economic Council and a senior policy adviser, George Stephanopoulos, Mr. Clinton was notified and was a half-hour late for his news conference with President Ramos as details were worked out.
The President's intervention differs from Mr. Reagan's actions with the air traffic controllers in one significant way. The controllers were striking against a government agency, the Federal Aviation Administration, which is illegal, and the flight attendants were striking against a private company.
In 1966, President Lyndon B. Johnson intervened when the International Association of Machinists struck against five airlines, idling 35,400 workers and resulting in the longest and costliest strike in in national history at the time. The union had previously rejected agreements recommended by the White House but accepted a plan worked out with the aid of Labor Secretary James J. Reynolds.
President Harry S. Truman intervened in more strikes than any other President this century, including rail and coal strikes in 1946, and sent troops to keep steel mills open during a 1952 strike because of military needs in the Korean War.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 25, 1993, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about President Clinton's intervention in the American Airlines strike misidentified James J. Reynolds, a Johnson Administration official who intervened in a strike in 1966. He was an Assistant Secretary of Labor and then Under Secretary of Labor; he was not the Labor Secretary.

GRAPHIC: Photos: American Airlinesj flight attendants celebrating yesterday at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago after their strike ended. (pg. A1); Picket signs lay askew at the Raleigh-Durham International Airport yesterday as flight attendants returned to the barganing table.; American Airlines flight attendants in Nashville cheering after hearing the President Clinton had taken the step of brokering an agreement between the union and the airline to submit their dispute to arbitration. (Photographs by the Associated Press) (pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%); DURHAM, NC, USA (59%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATION OF PROFESSIONAL FLIGHT ATTENDANTS; AMERICAN AIRLINES INC AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (91%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF PROFESSIONAL FLIGHT ATTENDANTS; AMERICAN AIRLINES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%); DURHAM, NC, USA (59%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; STRIKES; CONTRACTS; ARBITRATION, CONCILIATION AND MEDIATION; NYTRAVEL; THANKSGIVING DAY AIRLINES (93%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (92%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (92%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (79%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); CONTRACTS LAW (76%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (73%); THANKSGIVING (70%); LEGISLATION (69%); 

PERSON: IFILL, GWEN; CRANDALL, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1993



649 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-17
 
FOR ISRAEL'S ARABS, OPTIMISM
Many of the 800,000 Arab citizens of Israel are hopeful that the agreement on Palestinian self-rule will bring sweeping improvements in their lives economically, politically and even culturally. A1
 
Talks made progress on the issue of Palestinian prisoners. A6 

KOREA OFFER IS SHAPING UP
The United States and South Korea agreed that North Korea will be offered concessions in return for allowing inspections of nuclear facilities, but they could not agree on what the offer would contain. A16
 
Subtle distinctions in the world of official Washington dinners. A16
 
EUROPE COURTING ASIA TRADE
Although much was made at the Seattle summit of the United States' effort to increase trade with Asia, Europe is undertaking its own effort to increase Pacific Rim trade. A17
 
DOCTORS FAULT HAITI STUDY
A doctors' group that took part in a study of the effect of international sanctions on Haiti has disputed the study's projections that the sanctions could be killing as many as 1,000 children a month. A12
 
ECONOMIC MISERY IN ROMANIA
Four years after the end of Communist rule in Eastern Europe. many countries are hurting economically, but none are in as much trouble as Romania, which has been very slow to move to privatization. A3
 
KIDNAP CASE SHAKES SWEDEN
A trial of a Polish-born Swede and four Russians involving a plot to kidnap a Swedish industrialist has raised fears that Russian criminals will prey on Sweden. A5
 
RIGHTS VIOLATION FOUND IN IRAQ
United Nations investigators have found that Iraq is draining southern marsh regions so that it can drive out residents who have opposed the Government, and they said that it is a serious rights violation. A17
 
New Nigerian ruler makes concessions to democracy backers. A15
 
German university used bodies for automobile crash testing. A8
 
Three U.N. workers were wounded in a Somalia attack. A14
 
National A18-22
 
RULE ON TV INDECENCY
Citing the First Amendment, a Federal appeals court struck down a regulation prohibiting indecent broadcast television programs between 6 A.M. and midnight. A1
 
TRYING SEGREGATION
Three California schools have adopted single-sex classes as a way of solving the widely acknowledged problem of girls lagging behind boys in math and science. A1
 
SINGLE BANKING REGULATOR
The Clinton Administration proposed creating a single agency to regulate the banking industry, saying that dividing the job among four agencies no longer made sense. A1
 
PRODUCTIVE, BUT IRATE
News analysis: The 103d Congress more or less ended a productive first session, but on a note of ill will that made it clear that the legislative paralysis had not disappeared. A1
 
NEO-VICTORIAN AT HOME
The White House provided the most fleeting of glimpses of the much-ballyhooed restoration of the Clinton family quarters. A1
 
RULING ON OBESITY BIAS
A court ruled that job discrimination against severely obese people violated a Federal disabilities law, the first Federal appeals decision of its kind. A18
 
ALL-OUT FOR HEALTH PLAN
The White House have planned a relentless exercise in retail politics to win converts to its health plan, town meeting by town meeting, hospital by hospital, videotape by videotape, during the Congressional recess. A18
 
Two senior White House officials will resign, citing personal factors. A20
 
Republican governors vowed to retake a majority of governors' mansions. A18
 
LABORATORY IN GUN CONTROL
California's gun control laws have made it something of a laboratory during the years of debate over the Brady bill, but the experience has been far from conclusive. A21
 
The Brady bill continued to stall in the Senate. A21
 
VICTORY FOR WOMEN SEEN
President Clinton's intervention in the strike by flight attendants at American Airlines represented a breakthrough for working women, rather than a victory for organized labor, union leaders said. A22
 
Beneath the image, flight attendants are working class people. A22
 
Airports returned to near-normal a day after the strike. A22
 
House approves new regulation of the Treasury bond market. D1
 
New push to remove restrictions on local telephone companies. D1
 
Education Page B8
 
In School: Top teachers are praised, but is it lip service?
 
Metro Digest B1
 
The Living Section C1-7
 
 Some holiday tales of turkey. C1
At dinner with Ricki Lake: Half the weight and on the rise. C1
The cooking tips of a duchess. C1
 
Health Page C8
 
Cancer institute decides not to decide on mammography timing.
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-24
 
Theater: "Perestroika." C11
Film: "A Perfect World." C11
"George Balanchine's 'The Nutcracker.' " C11
"Mrs. Doubtfire." C11
"Josh and S.A.M." C12
"The Snapper." C14
"The Trial." C16
"We're Back! A Dinosaur's Story." C20
Music: Raunchy singing, wholesome act. C12
Books: Howard Stern and Paul Krassner, on themselves. C24
 
Business Digest D1
 
Sports B9-14
 
Hockey: Rangers beat Canadiens. B9
 
Obituaries D18-19
 
Tatyana Nikolayeva, pianist. D18
Alexander Langmuir, helped start U.S. disease centers. D19
Bruno Rossi, pioneer in cosmic ray research. D19
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A24-25
 
Editorials
 
Reform: now for the hard part.
City budget: better and worse.
The great expanding holiday.
Mr. Rollins stirs the pot anew.
 
Letters
 
Bob Herbert: Battered girls in school.
Mitchell Kapor, Jerry Berman: Superhighway through the wasteland?
Anders Aslund: Runaway rubles.
 
Chronicle B4
 
Bridge C24
 
Crossword C20

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); EUROPE (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); ROMANIA (92%); HAITI (92%); ASIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); SWEDEN (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); SOMALIA (79%); GERMANY (71%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC RIM FOODSINC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); EUROPE (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); ROMANIA (92%); HAITI (92%); ASIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); SWEDEN (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); SOMALIA (79%); GERMANY (71%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INSPECTIONS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (77%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); CHILDREN (72%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); BANKING LAW (66%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (66%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (66%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (61%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (54%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); VEHICLE CRASH TESTING (50%); 

PERSON: TZIPORA LIVNI (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (81%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1993



650 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Seeking To Consolidate Bank Agencies

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 23

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration today outlined a plan to create a single agency to regulate the entire banking industry, saying that dividing the job among four agencies no longer made sense.
The four agencies were created over the last several decades in response to various changes in the banking industry. But the face of the financial industry has changed drastically in recent years, as banks and savings and loans have expanded the services they offer consumers, consolidated over state lines through mergers, and responded to increasing competition from nonbank companies. 
 As a result, regulatory functions have increasingly overlapped, with some banks and savings and loans, for example, facing examinations from inspectors from two agencies at the same time. And with four agencies holding various positions on banking policy, some large banking companies have "shopped" for regulators who would be most approving of their various plans.
The Administration contended today that such overlap and lack of coordination and the resultant inefficiency were becoming increasingly costly to taxpayers.
"It just makes no sense to have four separate agencies, overlapping, often in conflict, in charge of our financial institutions," the Treasury Secretary, Lloyd Bentsen, said.
The current system "was designed for another time that long since has passed," Mr. Bentsen contended. "We've got to get rid of the inefficiencies in our Government."
The industry is now regulated by the Comptroller of the Currency, which is responsible for national banks; the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates bank holding companies; the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which insures bank deposits at savings and loans and banks, and the Office of Thrift Supervision, which regulates savings and loans.
The Administration's plan calls for the tasks of examining the books of banks and savings and loans and regulating their financial safety to be assumed by a single new independent agency, the Federal Banking Commission.
The Federal Reserve would continue to control the nation's money supply, setting interest rates and influencing the course of the economy, but it would lose regulatory power over the nation's biggest banks. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation would continue to insure deposits, and the states would continue to be the primary regulators of the banks they charter.
 
 
Fed Reaction
 The heads of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Office of Thrift Supervision, both part of the Treasury Department, endorsed the proposal. But the Federal Reserve issued a statement saying it should continue to play a regulatory role.
The Administration called the banking changes the latest step in what the White House likes to call "reinventing government."
Although the changes would have little direct effect on how consumers do business with banks, the Administration contended that it would lower the costs of credit, one of its economic priorities.
"What we have now slows up the economy, adds to the costs of those financial institutions, and they, in turn, pass it on to the consumers, to the checking accounts, to the interest rates on loans," Mr. Bentsen said in an Op-Ed page article today in The Washington Post.
Congressional leaders, who had urged the Administration to come up with a proposal to match those that have been presented for months in Congress, supported today's plan.
 
 
'Quite Promising'
 Representative Henry B. Gonzalez, the Texas Democrat who is chairman of the House Banking Committee, said it "sounds quite promising" and said he was pleased that the new agency would be independent of the Treasury Department.
But there were signs of unease in the industry and among the agencies that regulate, and to some extent nurture, the banks.
In its statement, the Fed said its "hands-on role in banking supervision is essential to carrying out the Federal Reserve's responsibility for the stability of the financial system and is vital for the effective conduct of monetary policy.
"While the board recognizes the overlaps in bank supervision that have emerged in recent years, it is essential that any proposal for change preserves the important benefits of the current system," it said.
 
 
'Very Reasonable'
 At a news conference, the Under Secretary of the Treasury, Frank N. Newman, acknowledged that the Fed held this view, but called the Administration's proposals "very reasonable."
"The Federal Reserve would have a seat on the board, and through that seat on the board, the Federal Reserve would have access to all the materials associated with the examination of every institution that will be of interest to them," Mr. Newman said.
"They would go along with the examiners of the Federal Banking Commission in examination of a number of the particularly major institutions who play large and important roles in the payment system, and the Federal Reserve would also continue to prescribe regulation for and, as appropriate, examine compliance with those regulations for participation in the payment system," he said.
Mr. Newman spoke to reporters under a Treasury Department policy that he not be identified. The New York Times declined to attend the briefing under those conditions, and obtained a text of his remarks independently.
 
 
Some Reservations
 Ed Yingling, the chief lobbyist for the largest banking group, the American Bankers Association, said that most banks seemed to want to simplify the regulatory system, which they largely pay for through Federal fees.
But he said the bankers continued to have some reservations about how the change, which would have to move through Congress, would affect different segments of the diverse industry.
Proposals to simplify bank regulation are nothing new. In 1991, when Congress last revamped the main banking law, the idea came to nothing, as the regulators and their industrial constituents could not agree on a single approach.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (67%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (FDIC); FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD; OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION; COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY; FEDERAL BANKING COMMISSION (PROPOSED) FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (67%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (59%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (FDIC); FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD; OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION; COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY; FEDERAL BANKING COMMISSION (PROPOSED) OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (59%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; REGULATORY AGENCIES; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS ; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY BANKING & FINANCE (94%); SAVINGS & LOANS (91%); BANKING LAW (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (75%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); MONEY SUPPLY (71%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1993



651 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: Sour End to Strong Year

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 23

 BODY:
The 103d Congress more or less ended a productive first session today, but on a note of ill will that made it clear that the legislative paralysis of recent years had been diminished but not vanquished.
Many bills that President Bush had vetoed became law with the signature and backing of President Clinton. But party divisions were raw and obvious during the budget battle in the summer and clear again today as minor differences held up a popular gun control measure. Democrats sought to trap the Republicans into blocking it, or giving up ignominiously. [Page A21.] 
 But despite those divisions, Congress passed a half-trillion-dollar, five-year deficit cut, about half of it in tax increases, and approved a measure to end trade barriers with Canada and Mexico. It passed one significant domestic initiative of President Clinton's vision of new Democratic policy, the national service bill, and started on others, like one to prepare youths for the work force.
Finally, it began to grapple seriously with the gravest domestic problem it has tried to solve since civil rights: the high cost and diminishing availability of medical care.
Early on, the new President relied exclusively on Democrats -- and sometimes they fought him over issues like his efforts to allow open homosexuals to serve in the military. Solid Republican opposition killed his package of spending measures meant to stimulate the economy, and his budget just passed without a single Republican vote. But his liaison with Capitol Hill improved as he went along, and in the fall he worked increasingly with Republicans, relying on their votes to clear the North American Free Trade Agreement over Democratic opposition and courting them to help on health care.
Still, most of senators and representatives headed home today aware that the public gives neither them or President Clinton the credit they feel they deserve, and today's snappish denouement of a Senate session, due to conclude next Tuesday, suggests why.
 
Small Differences
 In between interminable quorum calls and recesses, Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the Republican leader, tied the Senate up short of final action on the gun control measure, which would impose a five-day waiting period for gun purchases.
The deadlock was striking because the substantive differences between Republicans and Democrats were slim. Instead, the dispute seemed to revolve largely around differences in party and pride. Mr. Dole complained that Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, the Judiciary Committee chairman, "tried to rub our nose in it" by gleefully scrapping concessions that allowed Republicans to back the bill on Saturday night. And the phrase "Republican filibuster" tripped readily from Democrats' lips as they sought to portray the minority as the friend of irresponsible gun owners.
Still, some lawmakers feel pretty good about the year's work. An upbeat appraisal came from Senator Patty Murray of Washington, a freshman Democrat, who said that when they realized the Senate had acted on crime, the deficit, family leave and national service, "people at home will say, 'This affects me.' "
She added, "And I can't think of a lot of things Congress has done in the past decade that a normal, average family would say, 'This affects me.' "
 
'Historic' Not Hype
 Senator George J. Mitchell of Maine, the majority leader, said: "I believe that this has already been a very significant Congress, and if and when, as I believe we will, pass comprehensive health care reform, I believe we will be entitled to the already much overused word of historic in describing this Congress."
Of course Democrats liked what was passed better than Republicans did.
Representative Dick Armey of Texas, chairman of the House Republican Conference, was among the most scathing today in a commentary on Democratic policy starting with the tax increases of the deficit measure and continuing through Monday night's rejection of another five-year budget cutting measure for $90 billion. "The President and his team in Congress have been completely consistent throughout the year," he said. "They started the year trying to raise taxes and fighting off the Republican effort to stop that, and they finished the year thwarting the Republican effort in the Kasich proposal last night to cut spending. And nothing really that went on between the beginning and the end really changed their fundamental position on raising taxes and raising spending."
Mr. Dole put it more simply, calling the legislative product of this session in scope and spending, "A little too much, I think."
 
President Is Encouraged
 Not too much for President Clinton, who exulted today over the help he had had from Democrats and sometimes from Republicans. He boasted that this was only the second time in 60 years that a President had not vetoed a single bill, the last case being Richard M. Nixon in 1969.
The quick academic view was generally positive. Charles O. Jones, a professor of political science at the University of Wisconsin and a student of the Carter Administration, called it a decent first year for Mr. Clinton and the Congress. "If they haven't dealt with it, they have at least set it up for next year," he said. "It's been a high-wire act, often."
He added that the critical difference between Mr. Clinton's approach and that of the last Democratic outsider, Mr. Carter, was that Mr. Clinton "is perfectly willing to play let's make a deal. That was downright offensive to Carter."
But Thomas Mann of the Brookings Institution said that while Congress might appreciate that effort to win votes, the public did not because of the "anger and contempt for the political process." He said "What is a normal political process is seen as somehow tainted and demeaning."
Not only Mr. Clinton but also the Democrats in Congress had something to learn. His party suddenly found itself not just with a President who would sign their pet bills, but with a President they were obliged to support, and also with the responsibility that goes with the power to pass laws and not just score political points. They could not expect vetoes to bail them out.
 The single biggest change in the Congress was the fact that 24 percent of its members were freshmen. Some had hoped to change the rules overnight and to change the way things are done in Congress, like by slashing spending and speeding up procedures. In the Senate, five new women members often stuck together and had an impact.
But in the House their impact came more in providing votes for Mr. Clinton's proposals. Speaker Thomas S. Foley found the 66 new Democrats solid supporters of the leadership. He said they cast more gutsy votes than freshmen might be expected to offer. "They don't cast knee-jerk, quick, convenient votes," he said.
Representative Marjorie Margolies-Mezvinsky of Pennsylvania, the freshman who cast the most inconvenient vote of all, the decisive 218th for Mr. Clinton's budget bill, said today: "I don't want to be here just to stay here. I think a lot of members vote to stay, rather than to change things." Her proudest moment, she said, was not that crucial budget vote but "the opportunity to have my name attached to increased funding for breast and cervical cancer research."
Representative Eva Clayton of North Carolina, the president of the Democratic freshmen class, said: "The freshman class is not monolithic in its views. What they do hold in common is their seriousness of being players."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Legislative Record"
 
Family Leave -- Congress gave President Clinton his first legislative victory when it passed the family-leave bill to guarantee workers up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave for medical emergencies and births.
 
Voter Registration -- After breaking a Republican filibuster in the Senate, Congress passed a bill that directs states to provide voter registration forms in motor vehicle offices, military recruiting stations and welfare offices.
 
Economic Stimulus -- Using a filibuster, Senate Republicans defeated the President's plan to stimulate the economy.
 
Budget Deficit -- By the narrowest of margins, Congress approved the President's plan to reduce the budget deficit by $496 billion over the next five years and raise individual and corporate income taxes, gasoline taxes, and Medicare and Social Security taxes by about $220 billion over the next five years."
 
Trade -- Legislation was approved that would put the North American Free Trade Agreement into effect starting Jan. 1, 1994, gradually abolishing nearly all trade barriers between the United States, Mexico and Canada.
 
National Service -- The plan is the first of Mr. Clinton's campaign promises to be enacted into law and is intended to encourage volunteerism and create a corps of volunteers who would get living allowances and up to $10,000 in education grants.
 
Flood Relief -- Congress enacted legislation to provide $6.2 billion to help areas hurt by this summer's flooding in the Midwest.
 
Campaign Finance -- The House passed a bill that includes voluntary limits on campaign spending and the first public financing of Congressional campaigns. The Senate's bill calls for voluntary spending limits but does not include public financing and eliminates political action committee contributions. The bills are in a Senate-House conference committee.
 
Civil Servants -- Legislation passed that would lift many restrictions on political activity by Federal employees.
 
Supercollider -- Despite the President's support for the program, Congress voted to terminate the $11 billion Superconducting Supercollider project, which is one-fifth complete.
 
Space Station -- Congress decided to continue financing the project.
 
Crime -- The Senate passed a broad $23 billion anti-crime package whose leading provisions would add 100,000 police officers to the nation's streets, build a network of high-security regional prisons and create more boot camps for young offenders. The House took another tack and approved measures that would add 50,000 police officers over five years, expand drug treatment in prison and offer gang members counseling, drug treatment and recreation. The bill are ina conference committee.
 
Gun Control -- The House and Senate passed different versions of a bill calling for a five-day waiting period to buy a handgun. The House has passed a compromise version, but the compromise is stalled in the Senate.
 
Abortion -- Congress again approved an amendment restricting Federal payments for abortions although in a slightly modified form. The new language allows the use of Federal money for abortions in cases of rape and incest as well as when the life of the pregnant woman is in danger. Legislation to prohibit most state restrictions on abortions lost momentum and appears to be dead. Congress approved a measure making it a Federal crime to bomb, burn or block access to abortion clinics; the measure also makes it a Federal crime to shoot or make threats of violence against doctors and nurses who perform abortions. The two versions of the bill are in conference committee.
 
Mining Law -- The House passed a bill that would charge an 8 percent royalty on revenue from mining on public land in 12 Western states and eliminate the ability to take title. It would also tighten environmental controls on miners and force them to repair any damage they do. The version of the bill passed by the Senate is much less comprehensive. The bill are in a conference committee.
 
Grazing Fees -- Unable to break a filibuster by Western Senators, Congress abandoned efforts to increase grazing fees and impose other range overhauls on Federal land, expecting the Administration to do it by regulation. (pg. A21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); MEXICO (92%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US) NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US) NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); MEXICO (92%); KANSAS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FIREARMS (89%); GUN CONTROL (89%); FILIBUSTER (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VETO (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); POLITICS (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); APPROVALS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); TRADE DISPUTES (74%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); TAX LAW (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); GAYS & LESBIANS (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM BILL CLINTON (91%); PATTY MURRAY (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1993



652 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
The Clinton Administration proposed creating a single agency to regulate the entire banking industry, saying that dividing the job among four agencies no longer made sense. [Page A1.] 
 Republic New York is having to play rougher to maintain its record of growth after becoming one of the largest banks through Wall Street hustle and old-world conservatism. [D1.]
Warner-Lambert plans to close seven factories and eliminate 2,800 jobs under a further restructuring to cut costs. [D1.]
General Motors will sell three part plants to a venture including Harold K. Sperlich, a former Chrysler president. [D3.]
Investors embraced the stock of Vermont Teddy Bear, pushing the initial offering price from $10 a share to as high as $19. [D3.]
Grumman agreed to pay $20 million to the Government to avert criminal charges of defrauding the Navy. [D3.]
Sotheby's president, Michael L. Ainslie, will step down and be replaced by Diana D. Brooks, worldwide auctions head. [D3.]
Some factoring companies and credit-rating agencies advised clients not to ship goods to Merry-Go-Round. [D4.]
USX Steel backed a union contract with pay increases, guarantees against most layoffs and union board seats. [D4.]
Electronic Data Systems won a 10-year, $1.5 billion data processing contract from Britain's national tax agency. [D4.]
Viacom appears to have taken an early lead over QVC Network in the tender offer race for Paramount Communications. [D17.]
 
The Economy
Prohibition of indecent broadcast television programs between 6 A.M. and midnight was called unconstitutional by a Federal court, which said the F.C.C. had denied the rights of adults. [A1.]
Two usually clashing House chairmen called for lifting all major restrictions on regional phone companies. [D1.]
The American Airlines flight attendants' strike may help women close the pay gap. [A22.] Air traffic neared normal. [A22.]
Coal miners ended picket lines in a move seen as a prelude to the announcement of a settlement of their six-month strike. [A20.]
 
Business Technology
New England Power is seeking ways to convert the thousands of tons of ash created each year by burning coal at its generating plants into useful products like an additive for cement. [D5.]
 
International
Britain cut interest rates by a half point, stirring speculation that the Government would raise taxes. [D2.]
Romania's economy seems the bleakest of all former Communist states, with little industrial reform. [A3.]
Questions have been raised in Mexico about the extent of public debate and democratic choice that accompanied Nafta. [A4.]
While the U.S. is seeking new trade ties in the Pacific Rim, European trade in the region is already flourishing. [A17.]
 
Markets
The House passed important changes in the regulation of the $2.4 trillion Government securities market. [D1.]
Stocks rose on signs of lower interest rates. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 3.92 points, to 3,674.17. [D6.]
Oil prices fell sharply on perceptions that OPEC had lost control of prices. [D13.] The dollar was lower. [D13.]
 
Today's Columns
Stocks of aluminum companies have risen as the industry has sought to correct a worldwide supply glut. But investors and producers may be in for a surprise. Market Place. [D1.]
Guerlain perfumes moved its account to Weiss, Whitten from J. Walter Thompson. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D17.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%); VIA (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (66%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (55%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (55%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%); ROMANIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: QVC INC (66%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (55%); VIACOM INC (54%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%); ROMANIA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); STRIKES (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); TAX LAW (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); CLOSINGS (76%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (76%); PLANT CLOSINGS (76%); POWER PLANTS (75%); TENDER OFFERS (74%); TAX INCREASES (74%); EQUAL PAY (74%); ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); TAX AUTHORITIES (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); GENDER EQUALITY (68%); CREDIT BUREAUS (67%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (64%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (64%); COAL MINING (62%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); AIRLINES (50%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1993



653 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY;
From the Ashes, a Plus for a Utility

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SALEM, Mass.

 BODY:
The New England Power Company burns a lot of coal at its waterfront power plant here: 2,400 tons a day, day in, day out, year round.
Because about 10 percent of coal is unburnable sand and shale -- what one executive calls "prehistoric dirt" -- the result is about 300,000 tons of coal ash a year that must somehow be removed. That is a quarter of a ton of ash a year for each residential electricity customer. 
 The simplest answer to the problem is simply to bury the stuff, and that is largely what is done now. But landfill sites, particularly in the Northeast, are becoming increasingly scarce and expensive.
So New England Power has joined with Separation Technologies Inc., a small technology development company in Needham, Mass., to try to convert the ash into useful products. These products have the potential for cutting the company's fuel costs as well as making money by providing an additive for cement.
 
The Advantages of Ash
 Pure coal ash is good for cement. It is known as a "pozzolanic" material, one that resembles the volcanic ash from Mount Vesuvius. Ancient Romans used it to improve the quality of mortar in their construction, some of which still stands. The fine particles of silica and alumina improve cement's strength and resist penetration by water and salt.
When water penetrates concrete and freezes, it expands and breaks some of the cement bonds that hold the mixture of sand and gravel together. Chloride ions from the salt that is slathered on roads each winter move through these cracks and corrode the steel reinforcement bars in roadway concrete, explaining why most highway bridges need to have their decks replaced every 20 years or so.
As it comes from a utility's boiler, however, coal ash is anything but pure, with 18 percent to 19 percent contamination by unburned carbon. And as utilities are forced by clean-air laws to install burners that reduce emissions of oxides of nitrogen gases, the quantity of unburned carbon is expected to nearly double.
That much carbon troubles cement makers and users. Concrete used in areas with frequent periods of freezing weather is deliberately mixed with tiny bubbles of air -- about 8 percent of total volume -- to provide space for expansion and contraction of the other components. But the unburned carbon acts like activated charcoal, absorbing the bubbles and producing less durable material.
 
Early Testing
 To deal with the disposal problem and to create a useful material, the two companies are beginning an effort to separate the ash into carbon-rich and carbon-poor streams.
In early testing on Venezuelan coal burned at the Salem Harbor Station, ash with an 18.5 percent carbon content was separated into one product with an 83.7 percent carbon content and a second with only 2.97 percent carbon.
The process has been tested by Separation Technologies in small-scale operations, but the installation at Salem Harbor is the first commercial-scale application of the technology. Equipment is being installed and large-scale testing is scheduled to begin after Thanksgiving and continue for about six months. "Ash is not trash" is the slogan on T-shirts worn by project members in warmer weather.
If the separation works as planned, it will have a double-barreled economic impact. The carbon-rich material has more than 50 percent of the energy value of the original coal, and can be fed back into the boilers to decrease the need for fuel or used as a carbon black substitute in making plastics.
The carbon-poor stream can be sold to cement makers at $10 to $15 a ton, as long as the carbon level is held under 3 percent, said R. Peter Calvert, New England Power's chief fuel planner, who is managing the project.
There is a ready market for low-carbon coal ash, said Steven S. Madden, general manager of Pozzolanic International in Albany, which trades ash. The silicon, aluminum and iron oxides in ash, he said, enhance the chemistry of portland cement, the most common form of cement, by reacting with unwanted byproducts.
"There are more markets than there is salable ash," he said, adding that most ash from smokestacks is not of cement quality.
Mr. Madden said that if the separation technology worked as billed and produced ash of consistent quality, even more demand would develop, both in domestic and overseas markets. He said ash could replace from 15 percent to 40 percent of the portland cement used in concrete.
 
The Wheat From the Chaff
 The separator, 30 feet long and about 6 feet wide, or bigger than two pickup trucks, takes advantage of a simple fact: carbon conducts electricity while the inorganic components of the ash do not.
The separator, in essence, divides the wheat from the chaff. Indeed, the technology is applicable to other forms of dry separation, such as wheat flour from bran particles in certain grades of processed wheat.
As the ash particles rub against each other in the hopper leading to the separator, the carbon develops a positive charge and other materials develop a negative charge.
The charged particles are fed into the machine, where they encounter an electrical field. The positively charged carbon particles are attracted downward to the negative electrode, while the others flow toward the positive electrode. They do not have far to go because the two electrodes are only about one-fourth of an inch apart.
Nevertheless, the particles do not reach their destinations. Belts headed in opposite directions -- and moving at 50 to 100 feet a second -- sweep the particles away from each other and into separate hoppers. As a result, a particle is inside the separator for less than one second.
 
A Nonstop Operation
 The machine is intended to operate continuously to process the hot, dry ash removed from the plant's exhaust by electrostatic precipitators.
Because the coal is reduced to talcum-powder fineness before being burned, 85 percent to 90 percent of the ash generated at power plants is retrieved from stack gases. The coarser bottom ash, recovered from under the boilers, is used as a feed in cement kilns rather than as a substitute for cement.
According to Charles E. Parker, the president of Separation Technologies, the process has environmental benefits. Not only does it reduce the utility's bills for disposing of ash and buying fuel, but to the extent that ash substitutes for portland cement, the process also reduces overall energy consumption in the region.
Cement production is highly energy intensive. Kilns are heated as high as 2,700 degrees Fahrenheit for long periods, consuming large amounts of fuel.
Mr. Calvert of New England Power said that about three million tons of cement were used in the Northeast each year, providing an ample market for ash if the quality could be maintained. He has a strong incentive to find markets for the material: the company's landfills will be full in five years.

GRAPHIC: Photo: R. Peter Calvert, left, and Ernie Kallander of the New England Power Company touring the carbon-separating system for converting coal ash into useful products such as an additive for cement. (Evan Richman for The New York Times)
 
Diagram: "Recycling Coal Ash"
 A system to be testd at a New England Power Company plant removes unburned carbon from coal ash to increase the value of the separated products. As the ash is fed into the separator, positively charged carbon is attracted toward a negative electrode while other particles move a short distance toward a positive electrode. Belts moving in opposite directions carry the materials away from eachother for storage and reuse. (Source: Separation Technologies)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (94%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (58%); 

COMPANY: NEW ENGLAND POWER CO; SEPARATION TECHNOLOGIES INC NEW ENGLAND POWER CO (94%); SEPARATION TECHNOLOGIES INC (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND POWER CO; SEPARATION TECHNOLOGIES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (58%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ASH; CEMENT; PLASTICS; COAL ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (92%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); EMISSIONS (78%); CEMENT MFG (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); LANDFILLS (70%); AIR QUALITY (70%); CHLORINE (65%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (61%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (61%); NITROGEN OXIDES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1993



654 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Seoul Differ on Appeal To North Korea on Nuclear Sites

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 23

 BODY:
The United States and South Korea agreed today to hold out to North Korea a package of inducements if it allows some inspections of its nuclear sites and resumes discussions with South Korea. But the two longtime allies could not agree on exactly what the offer should contain.
At a meeting at the White House today with President Clinton, President Kim Young Sam of South Korea expressed some reluctance to go along with an earlier American proposal to offer the North a suspension of an annual American-South Korean military training exercise, called "Team Spirit," saying he felt that this might make him look too eager to meet one of the North's principal demands. 
 President Kim told American officials that it was politically important to him that any such decision on military maneuvers be announced out of Seoul and that it be announced only after the North has met the two conditions: basic inspections and resumption of talks.
 
A Strained News Session
 "I think this matter of suspending Team Spirit exercises should be dealt with on its own," said President Kim, at a somewhat strained joint news conference with President Clinton.
American officials said that they would outline a "package approach" to the North Koreans through a low-level diplomatic channel in New York on Wednesday. Although the specific military or diplomatic inducements remain to be worked out, the approach marks an abandonment of the countries' previous strategy of holding out small specific rewards to North Korea for small specific steps toward opening its sites to inspections.
Administration officials said that the policy they had followed since North Korea announced its withdrawal from the treaty against the spread of nuclear weapons last March had produced no benefits.
But today's announcement seemed to fall short of the detailed "new approach" President Clinton had promised. American officials said the two leaders had to spend a great deal of time simply working out the broad language that they would use to describe their general strategy.
 
North Korean Proposal
 North Korea was calling for a deal in which the United States would offer to cancel the annual Team Spirit exercise in return for an agreement by Pyongyang to allow international inspectors to resume monitoring its nuclear sites.
Instead Mr. Clinton, after his meeting with President Kim, was only ready to say that if the North moves first, the United States and South Korea will respond with a "thorough and broad" package.
Mr. Clinton said: "They are the ones, after all, who are out of line with international law and their own commitments. So we can't make any decisions about what we would do until we see what they do. That's all we are saying today."
The President added that the United States and South Korea were "prepared to discuss with North Korea a thorough, broad approach to the issues that divide us, and once and for all resolve the nuclear issue, but we cannot do that in the absence of a dialogue between North and South Korea, and while there is still growing doubt about the continuity of safeguards."
 
Servicing of Cameras
 An immediate goal of the United States and South Korea is to persuade North Korea to allow the International Atomic Energy Agency to replace film and batteries in cameras it has stationed at important nuclear sites in North Korea. Both the film and batteries are about to wear out, if they have not already done so, nearly blinding the world to North Korea's operations.
Mr. Clinton said that if North Korea permits the agency to replace its inspection equipment and resumes discussions with South Korea over nuclear weapons on the Korean Peninsula, "the door will be open on a wide range of issues, not only with the United States but with the rest of the world."
Administration officials said that they and the South Koreans were likely to offer the North Koreans suspension of the military exercise, a commitment by the United States not to attack North Korea with nuclear weapons as long as it abides by the treaty against the spread of nuclear weapons, a commitment to roll back American troop deployments in South Korea and, in time, possible economic and diplomatic relations between the United States and North Korea.
 
Regular Inspection of Sites
 But American officials stressed that North Korea would not only have to agree to the resumption of limited monitoring, but also to permit regular inspections of other nuclear sites that for now have been off-limits to international monitors. There is no great optimism in Washington that this new approach will prove any more successful than the previous one. But the option of asking the Security Council to impose sanctions on North Korea has been blocked for now by the strong reluctance of both China and Japan.
American officials complained that first the South Koreans told them that they were being too weak on the question of North Korea's nuclear program, and then, after the Administration toughened its approach, the South Koreans said that they were being too aggressive and should offer the North more concessions.
"This is a work in progress," said one Administration official. "The South Koreans are in flux because on the one hand they don't want the North to get a nuclear weapon. But they are very nervous about imposing sanctions that could prompt the North into terrorism or an act of war, or, equally bad, would lead to a collapse of North Korea, and South Korea would have to foot the $1.2 trillion bill to rebuild the place. So that's why they want to be firm but to keep diplomacy alive."
Senator Richard Lugar, an Indiana Republican who is a senior member of the Foreign Relations Committee, said he believed Mr. Clinton had been put in a difficult position by the South Koreans. "They're saying to us: be firm, but not too firm," he said.
But Gary Milhollin, director of the Wisconsin Project on Nuclear Arms Control, said he feared conciliation undermined the credibility of the system intended to halt the spread of nuclear weapons.
"The step of taking the North Koreans to the Security Council offers the best hope of a good solution, and it's the step that Mr. Clinton doesn't seem to want to take," Mr. Milhollin said.
"If the worst thing that happens when you break the rules is that you get to negotiate, it's not much of a system," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); MILITARY TRAINING (70%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L BILL CLINTON (91%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1993



655 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Like the U.S., Western Europe Steps Up Its Trade With Asia

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 23

 BODY:
During a week in which the message from Washington and Seattle was that United States foreign policy has been too Eurocentric and must concentrate more on Asia, Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany was quietly touring China and concluding contracts to sell about $4 billion in German goods to Beijing.
"It was obvious that the Chinese want intensified contacts with Europe," said Lorenz Schomerus, a senior Economics Ministry official who accompanied Mr. Kohl on the trip, which brought a contract for Siemens to build the Guangzhou subway and agreements for other German companies to build power and steel plants. 
 Mr. Schomerus added: "And our feeling is that, like the United States, Europe must step up its dialogue with the countries of Asia. We have no reason to feel threatened."
 
Europe's Trade With Asia
 Indeed, while much was made in the United States last week of the fact that its trade with the Pacific rim members of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation group exceeded United States trade with the European Community, far less was heard of Europe's huge exports to Asia.
In fact, European Community exports last year to the Pacific rim members of the economic forum totaled $96.2 billion, exceeding the community's $95 billion in exports to the United States, according to German Economics Ministry figures.
Total European trade with these countries amounted to $249 billion, well above the $206 billion in European trade with the United States.
These statistics and the economic success of the Kohl visit to China underscore a point made repeatedly by European officials in response to last week's comments from President Clinton and other United States officials about the merits of Asia in an age when foreign policy is about trade: all three emerging economic blocs -- Europe, North America and Asia -- need each other, and none would have anything to gain from a trade war with the others.
In general, the Clinton Administration's apparent tilt toward Asia -- backed up by a barrage of statistics about changing immigration patterns in the United States, the importance of United States exports to Asia and the speed of economic growth in China -- has been viewed in European capitals as having more to do with hype and negotiating ploys than with a fundamental shift in strategy. The statements surrounding the meeting of leaders of the 15 member nations of the Asia-Pacific forum on an island off Seattle over the weekend.
"The thinly veiled U.S. threats about having Asia as an alternative to Europe if world trade talks fail are absurd," said a French Foreign Ministry official, referring to the negotiations on the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. "It's as if France said it no longer cared about the United States because most of our trade is with other European Community countries."
Francois Heisbourg, the former director of the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London, said: "In the medium term, it is far from clear that a convergence of interests exists between the Americans and the Asians, particularly China.
"But in the short term, the United States has tilted the balance of forces in its favor for world trade talks by putting on a show of Asian camaraderie."
 
The Importance of GATT
 Indeed, in case this point about the GATT negotiations was lost on the Europeans, the United States trade representative, Mickey Kantor, made it explicit. "We trust our partners in Geneva will take careful note of this solidarity and unity of purpose of APEC members," he said.
France, whose conflicts with the United States over agriculture and movie subsidies have been a main cause of the long GATT paralysis, showed little immediate sign of being impressed.
Prime Minister Edouard Balladur said there would be no GATT agreement if Washington did not make concessions on farm trade, and Interior Minister Charles Pasqua criticized President Clinton for being "sure of himself, dominating and a little irritating."
But for all the posturing ahead of the Dec. 15 deadline for the GATT negotiations, there is also a growing sense in Europe of the importance of a trade accord to insure that tensions between the community and the United States do not worsen, leading to a real weakening of the NATO alliance and an even greater focus by Washington on Asia.
Reflecting this uneasy sentiment, Bonn's General Anzeiger newspaper declared in an editorial today: "Europe is no longer the navel of the universe. The new world order, made fun of so far because nobody knows what it is, is taking shape. It is a world that has more than one center, and it is up to the Europeans not to withdraw but to find their place in it."
In this sense, the meeting in Seattle has clearly focused European minds on the fact that East Asia has become a real contender in economic and political terms. It seems certain that Germany, with its strong free-trading sentiment, will now put great pressure on France over the next three weeks to insure that a GATT accord is reached.
The alternative could be bleak for Europe's relations with Washington. President Clinton has now stated clearly that "more than ever our security is tied to economics," and has compared the past role of NATO during the cold war to the potential future role of the Asia-Pacific group in an era when trade, not military might, matters most. All this could play against trans-Atlantic ties, which have been cemented by a military alliance that is now in some disarray.
"The domination of geoeconomics over geopolitics has been formally declared by the United States," said Dominique Moisi, the deputy head of the French Institute for International Relations. "So without a GATT agreement, you could have an awful lot of unraveling."


GRAPHIC: Much has been made of the fact that trade volume between the U.S. and Pacific Rim countries is greater than the volume between the U.S. and Europe. Exports and the volume of trade are also greater between the European Community and Pacific rim countries than between the E.C. and the United States. Shown are relevant statistics from 1992. (Sources: German Ministry of Economics; Commerce Department)
Chart: "Trading With the Pacific Rim"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (57%); SIE (LSE) (57%); SIE (FRA) (57%); SIE (BIT) (57%); SI (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (98%); ASIA (97%); GERMANY (96%); CHINA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY; ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION SIEMENS AG (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (83%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY; ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (94%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (93%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (83%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNITED STATES; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (98%); ASIA (97%); GERMANY (96%); CHINA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); TRADE DISPUTES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1993



656 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: Bleak Romanian Economy Growing Ever Bleaker

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BUCHAREST, Romania, Nov. 19

 BODY:
Bundled up against the icy cold of an unseasonably early winter, Victoria Uleia shopped at Bucharest's thinly supplied outdoor market, splurging on cheese but not meat.
Mrs. Uleia, a well-paid accountant until she retired four years ago, says she is incomparably worse off financially than she was when the most brutal Communist regime in Eastern Europe collapsed. She is glad Communism is gone, she said. But, she added, economic conditions do not have to be as bad as they are. 
 "It's a period of searching and we haven't found the way," the 54-year-old widow said. "The people in power keep us going backward because they are afraid of losing their political and economic advantages."
Many economists agree. Four years after Communism was swept away in Eastern Europe, few economies sparkle. But nowhere is the situation as bleak as in Romania, where the successors to Nicolae Ceausescu have balked at reorganizing the most industrialized economy in the region.
 
The Long Shadow of Ceausescu
 The President since the overthrow and execution of Mr. Ceausescu has been Ion Iliescu, a senior figure in the Ceausescu Government. Prime Minister Nicolae Vacaroiu and many other Cabinet minesters were also Ceausescu officials.
Mr. Iliescu said in a recent television appearance that his Government had made significant strides toward a market economy. But afterward, one of his ministers rebutted him, saying economic reform had not even started.
"The Government is slow on privatization because it represents the big industries," said Dan Pascariu, the chairman of the Romanian Bank of Commerce. "The Government still thinks of restructuring as a political concept rather than an economic or business one." He said two moves this year in the right direction -- the removal of price controls and the introduction of a value-added tax -- were not enough.
A Washington-based Western economist who visits Romania said, "For one reason or another, every effort to bring in a market ecomomy has been subverted."
 
A Nervous Search for Loans
 With inflation now running at more than 200 percent and the value of currency plummeting, the Government faces the worst possible situation: an economic crisis caused by four years of inaction and an increasingly restive population. On Nov. 18, about 50,000 demonstrators marched through Bucharest protesting the economic deterioration.
Thus, with its back against the wall, the Government intensified negotiations with the International Monetary Fund this month, seeking $500 million in loans.
The Finance Minister, Florin Georgescu, returned from Washington this month saying an agreement had been reached. But Washington officials said that there was no agreement, and that even if details could be worked out soon, it would be toward the end of winter before an agreement could be signed and money disbursed.
 
Measuring 'Quality of Life'
 The deterioration is reflected in many indicators. The World Bank, for example, conservatively estimates that most Romanians spend about 80 percent of their income on food.
According to a professor of sociology, Catalin Zamfin, who is the deputy head of the Government Quality of Life Institute, about 20 percent of Romanians live below the poverty line; many are parents with children.
The Health Ministry announced this month that infant mortality had started to climb again, after dropping since 1989. The data show that more infants are dying in Romania than elsewhere in Europe: the 1992 infant mortality rate rose 3 percent, to 23.4 per 1,000 live births; the average rate for Europe, including the former Communist countries, was just over 10 per 1,000.
One of the main reasons the I.M.F. has refused to lend money is the Government's failure to reorganize industry, whose workers, often idle but still on the payrolls, provide Mr. Iliescu with much of his support. Unemployment is 9.5 percent, an artificially low figure that illustrates that restructuring has not started, according to Commerce Bank.
 
The Absence of Foreigners
 Because there has been no restructuring, privatization of the productive sector is practically nonexistent. At the same time, production has fallen by almost 50 percent; still, many state companies get Government credits even though they are bankrupt.
A fairly typical example is the steel mill at Calarasi, in eastern Romania. In the 1980's, the Ceausescu Government only managed to get 80 percent of the plant completed. But 5,000 workers are employed there, turning out about 300,000 tons of steel annually, a dismal output by world standards.
A Western steel trader visited the plant recently because he was interested in buying cheap steel. But instead of being offered a sale, he was presented with an improbable request for $25 million to help complete the plant.
The Government's reluctance to move on the economy, combined with the corruption associated with doing business in Romania, has resulted in comparatively little foreign investment: just over $600 million since 1989, according to Government data. This compares to $5 billion invested in neighboring Hungary, a country of half the population but where a comparatively liberal Communist Government in the 1980's gave investors a headstart.
 
Winter May Be Very Cold
 Romanians face a precarious winter. With foreign currency reserves low, there are concerns about whether the Government can pay for energy imports from Russia. People said their apartments were warmer during recent freezes than during the Ceausescu period, when heating systems were often turned off to conserve fuel. Even so, doctors walk around hospitals in dressing gowns to keep warm, and some apartment dwellers said it was normal for them to wear their overcoats inside.
If an agreement with the I.M.F. is reached, Romanians are bound to feel even more pain for the sake of long-term economic health.
For people like Mrs. Uleia, who could afford to travel to the United States in 1988 to visit her sister but cannot even dream of such an extravagance today, the suffering is endurable if the future holds promise.
"I'm convinced in time it will be better," she said. "Then I will have something to look forward to." But whether the Government and the country's industrial workers share her long-term view is another question.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Romanians face a cold winter with an economy in worse condition than the one in place under Communist rule. A villager in Floresti grazed her cows on the spacious grounds of a state tuberculosis hospital, rear, where patients live in substandard conditions because of funding cuts. (Associated Press)
 
Map of Romania shows the location of Bucharest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: ROMANIA (95%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

CITY: BUCHAREST, ROMANIA (88%); 

COMPANY: ROMANIAN BANK (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ROMANIA ROMANIA (95%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); BUCHAREST, ROMANIA (88%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); PRIVATIZATION (74%); POLITICS (74%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); CURRENCIES (60%); VALUE ADDED TAX (50%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; CEAUSESCU, NICOLAE (1918-89); ILIESCU, ION (PRES) NICOLAE CEAUSESCU (93%); ION ILIESCU (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1993



657 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: Mexico City Journal;
South of the Border, the Trade Deal Was a Breeze

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Nov. 23

 BODY:
As the Mexican Senate prepared to cast its decisive vote on the free trade agreement that will join this country with the United States and Canada in the largest trading bloc in the world, a wall of dark suits rose on Monday night by the telephones in the Senate cloakroom.
"He's the President of Austria," a senator moaned into the receiver, apparently meaning that nation's Foreign Minister, Franz Vranitzky, who was in town on a visit. "I cannot not go to the dinner." 
 To the legislator's left, another of the people's representatives was debating with his wife over who would send a driver to pick up the children. Farther down, a third senator, balding and bespectacled, was trying to hang up.
"I send you many kisses, my love," the man said, but the amount seemed to be insufficient because the caller would still not hang up.
 
'A Done Deal!'
 If the senators were less than fully attentive to the speeches that were droning on in the somber, wood-paneled chamber a few feet away, that was perhaps to be expected.
Their verdict on the constitutionality of the trade accord may have been the most momentous decision made in years by the upper house of the Mexican Congress. But with only three opposition-party representatives seated among the 64 high-backed chairs and one of them a supporter of the agreement, the only real question was how many of the governing party's 61 senators would still be around or awake when it was finally taken. The vote, just after 11 P.M., was 56 to 2.
Instead of suspense, what the vote did seem to raise were some further questions about the extent of public debate and democratic choice that have attended Mexico's ratification of the trade pact.
"This was a done deal from the beginning!" thundered Pablo Gomez, a leftist politician who had just finished thundering to an audience of other leftist politicians, poor housewives and curious bystanders who gathered in the plaza outside the colonial Senate building for what was billed as an "alternative" debate.
"Nobody has ever told us what effect this treaty will have on jobs, on the trade balance, on economic growth," Mr. Gomez said. "In the United States, that is all you talk about!"
The Government of President Carlos Salinas de Gortari clearly saw such aspersions coming.
No sooner had the United States House of Representatives voted last Wednesday night to approve the agreement than Mr. Salinas began preparing a Mexican Al Gore. On Thursday, the Mexican leader dispatched his combative, Yale-educated trade secretary, Jaime Serra Puche, to challenge the leftist leader Cuauhtemoc Cardenas to debate the accord on live television.
Mr. Cardenas, a longtime critic of the trade deal who is known neither for his verbal agility nor his decisiveness, called a news conference on Friday to give his answer but then did not. Finally, at a rally on Saturday to open his campaign for next year's presidential election, Mr. Cardenas said he would debate -- but only with Mr. Salinas.
So was at least official responsibility for the economic future of North America remanded to the pinkish colonial building at which Mexican senators tend to arrive after big power breakfasts that usually last until about 11 A.M. (They rarely go to lunch, it should be noted, before 2 P.M.)
It is imprecise to say, as many Mexicans do, that their senators do nothing; some of them seem to work quite hard. It is just that there is very little of substance for them to do.
 
The Sinecure Is Sovereign
 In theory, Mexican senators do the sort of things that senators do in other countries with a division of powers: write federal laws, review budgets, approve presidential trips abroad. But in practice the Government is so dominated by the executive branch that laws are written in the ministries, the budgets pass almost unchallenged and the President tells the Congress when he travels abroad; he doesn't ask.
On the majority side, 14 Senate seats are reserved for the graying dons of the Government-affiliated union alliance, the Confederation of Mexican Workers. The remaining 47 sinecures, which come with estimated annual salaries of $85,000, are filled by party leaders and important ministers.
As Monday's session got under way, the majority leader who is also the deputy head of the workers' confederation, Emilio M. Gonzalez, shooed away a pack of Mexican reporters, telling them amiably: "You know that here in the chamber I don't work. That is my rule."
In a country where there is no such thing as writing one's congressman and many people don't even know who their representatives are, governing-party legislators are accountable mostly to the President. And at a breakfast on Aug. 16, Mr. Salinas was widely reported to have chastised his 61 senators for allowing "one single opposition senator" to best them routinely in debates.
 
Were Mexicans Sold Out?
 The President's windy nemesis, Senator Porfirio Munoz Ledo, was having a field day on Monday.
Mr. Munoz Ledo, who converted to the cause of Mr. Cardenas after once having served as President of the ruling party, promised to limit himself to "some of the most notorious falsehoods" of the Government's case. He then went on at considerable length to accuse the Salinas administration of having sold out a poor and unprepared nation to enter in an American plan dating back to the Trilateral Commission.
"That is called being a traitor!" a Government partisan shouted from the gallery. But Mr. Munoz Ledo was undeterred.
"Today I will not exhort you to vote your conscience," he said. "I know what you will do and I know why you will do it. Today I exhort the country, my compatriots, to organize with me a line of national resistance against the country's deliverance to foreign powers."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Today I exhort the country, my compatriots, to organize with me a line of national resistance against the country's deliverance to foreign powers," said Senator Porfirio Munoz Ledo of Mexico. He descended from a podium at the Senate Monday after denouncing the free trade agreement. (Francisco Mata Rosas for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); AUSTRIA (72%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); AUSTRIA (72%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); POLITICS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); APPROVALS (66%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (51%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1993



658 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Pressure for a Decision on Coliseum Site

BYLINE: By SHAWN G. KENNEDY

 BODY:
It has been nearly nine years since Mortimer B. Zuckerman won the right to replace the Coliseum, a building much maligned by architecture critics, with a gleaming new mixed-use complex on Columbus Circle. Today the old Coliseum still stands, and the fate of the site, which occupies prime real estate near the southwest corner of Central Park, seems as uncertain as ever.
Now, however, the Dinkins administration, in its waning days, is moving to compel the developer to build on the site or forfeit his deposit. 
 Mr. Zuckerman's company, Boston Properties , is under contract to build a 2.1 million-square-foot complex of offices, apartments, restaurants and stores at the site. The developer, who also owns The Daily News, says the terms are not realistic in today's depressed real-estate market, and he wants to renegotiate the $338 million price and build in two phases.
For months the city has squabbled with the Metropolitan Transit Authority, which owns the site, over whether to give Mr. Zuckerman more negotiating room, or whether to force him to close on the transaction within 90 days or forfeit a $33.8 million deposit. The M.T.A. has indicated that it is not amenable to major revisions in the original agreement, while the city has been more receptive to changes.
But now, as the clock ticks down on the Dinkins administration and the issue remains unresolved, the city has told the M.T.A. that it was ready to join forces and require that Mr. Zuckerman close on the project under the original terms. That has not happened yet because the city's Economic Development Corporation is trying to get the M.T.A. to make it partners in any future plan for the site if Mr. Zuckerman does not build there, said Carl Weisbrod, the corporation president.
"It was in our view that if an agreement could be worked out that could be agreeable to all parties, that would have been best," Mr. Weisbrod said yesterday. "The current paralysis is an unacceptable situation."
 
No Reversal
 It may be in Mr. Zuckerman's interest if the M.T.A. and city do not find common ground soon on who would share the spoils of one of the most attractive parcels of land in midtown. Mr. Zuckerman's paper, The Daily News, endorsed Rudolph W. Giuliani for mayor.
If the city and the M.T.A. do come to terms and issue a closing notice before the end of the year, Mr. Guiliani would be unable to reverse the decision, an M.T.A. spokesman said.
"The clock starts ticking when the notice is issued," said John Cunningham, an M.T.A. spokesman.
Nearly from the moment Mr. Zuckerman unveiled his plans for the Coliseum site, the city was hit with a barrage of lawsuits attacking the project. Community residents, environmentalists and others argued that the project was too big. Not only was Mr. Zuckerman delayed by the lawsuits, but in 1987, he also lost his main office tenant and partner when Salomon Brothers backed out. The collapse of the real-estate market has kept the project under a cloud.
But the last legal obstacle to the project was put aside in September 1992 when a Federal Appeals Court said that the development would not violate Federal Clean Air rules. Since then the city, the M.T.A. and representatives of Mr. Zuckerman have been struggling to complete the deal.
 
A Council Hearing
 Last week the City Council's committee on economic development called on all parties to explain why the project was still in limbo.
Edward H. Linde, president of Boston Properties, told the Council panel that it was committed to developing the property, had a prospective tenant for the office building and could start construction late next year. (Alan A. Lascher, a principal with Weil Gotshal & Manges, confirmed that the law firm is negotiating with Boston Properties for as much as 500,000 square feet of space if a new office tower is built. The firm's lease in the General Motors Building at Fifth Avenue and 59th Street is up in 1998.)
Saying that the legal delays were not the fault of Boston Properties, Mr. Linde pressed his case for renegotiation.
"We would be burying our head in the sand if we did not recognize that the environment facing us today is significantly different than the environment in 1989 when the most recent version of Columbus Center was approved," Mr. Linde said.
In response to a question from a Council member, Mr. Linde hinted that Boston Properties would sue the city and the M.T.A. if the company were forced to forfeit the $33.8 million deposit.
For its part, the M.T.A. told the Council that since 1992, it had tried to negotiate a new arrangement with Boston Properties that would provide what the agency considered to be a fair monetary return on the Columbus Circle site.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mortimer B. Zuckerman has held the right to replace the Coliseum at Columbus Circle for nine years. Mr. Zuckerman, who owns The Daily News, wants to renegotiate the $338 million price and build in two phases. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BXP (NYSE) (77%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON PROPERTIES INC METROPOLITAN TRANSIT AUTHORITY HOUSTON (56%); T H E M INTERNATIONAL INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON PROPERTIES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK COLISEUM REAL ESTATE (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (73%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (72%); RESTAURANTS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); LITIGATION (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%); 

PERSON: ZUCKERMAN, MORTIMER B; KENNEDY, SHAWN G; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1993



659 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
A Squeeze Play by Big Aluminum

BYLINE: By ALISON LEIGH COWAN

 BODY:
Few companies would pass up a chance to wish away a big competitor. And apparently, the American aluminum industry is willing to do just that -- even if it means losing a big customer while they are at it.
All five publicly traded producers of aluminum have seen their stocks move up in recent days, as much as 10.5 percent. Investors are anticipating that Western countries will coax reluctant aluminum producers from the Commonwealth of Independent States to curb production to help stem a world glut of the metal. 
 But investors, and perhaps the aluminum companies busy lobbying in Washington for help, may not be thinking sufficiently hard about some of the consequences of getting what they wish.
For one thing, the United States is a big supplier of a key raw material for the troublesome aluminum from Russia and other former Soviet republics. Cutting back aluminum production from Russia also means less profit for American companies.
As the former members of the Soviet Union have stopped using their own aluminum for fighter planes and missiles, they have been accused of flooding the world's commercial metal markets with their products, helping drive down prices.
Yesterday, aluminum prices on the spot market were quoted at 47 cents a pound, half what they were in early 1989, before the fall of the Berlin wall helped end the cold war.
 
A Call for Rollbacks
 On Thursday, the large American producers called on the Russian contingent to voluntarily roll back production 35 percent, to 2 million metric tons, from 3.1 million metric tons a year and to bring exports much closer to the 1989 levels of 250,000 metric tons a year, down from the current annual tonnage of 1.6 million.
Why the Russians would agree to put so many countrymen out of work just to make the Americans, Norwegians, Europeans, Canadians and Australians happy is unclear, even though some of their plants are outdated and unsafe.
And why Washington would mount a costly rescue of the American producers in a tough economy with an ambitious domestic agenda facing it remains unclear. But that is precisely what many investors seem to be predicting.
"The only reason I can think of for the strength in the aluminum shares is speculation that these government-to-government negotiations prove fruitful," John C. Tumazos, a metals analyst at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, said.
The Russians remain open-minded, as evidenced by their participation in talks that reconvene on Dec. 1 and 2 in Washington among several aluminum-producing countries. The head of a Russian aluminum trade group also suggested recently that Russia would help with any worldwide cutbacks, but would resist efforts to force it to bear most of the burden.
But a big rollback in Russian production would crimp Russian purchases of alumina, a whitish powder that is vital in making aluminum.
The Russians are believed to buy at least half their alumina from foreign suppliers. Estimates of their yearly alumina purchases run upward of $400 million a year.
And while the aluminum market has been unkind of late, alumina has been a huge moneymaker. The stock of Alcoa, based in Pittsburgh, has moved up 5.3 percent since Thursday's saber-rattling, and the company made $36 million in profits in the third quarter from its half interest in an alumina producer, Alcoa of Australia.
That was 3.4 times Alcoa's companywide profits, according to Charles A. Bradford, a metals analyst at UBS Securities. The quarter was no fluke. Alumina profits, he said, also accounted for 84 percent of second-quarter profits and 103 percent of first-quarter profits.
"The point is, if the Russians and Western producers cut their operating rate, that will make alumina much worse as a market," Mr. Bradford said.
Because Alcoa has been among the most vocal champions of a Government-sponsored solution to the oversupply problem, investors may wonder what Alcoa is thinking.
Privately, Alcoa officials contended that if any Western company was vulnerable to a drop in alumina sales, it would be Kaiser Aluminum, not Alcoa, the industry leader and low-cost producer. Alcoa, they say, sells very little directly to the Russians. What is more, they say, the company has locked customers into contracts that will guard it temporarily from any slump in price.
Mr. Bradford of UBS said he agreed that Kaiser, shares of which have climbed 10.5 percent since Thursday, had more to lose. But that conclusion still ignores that any drop in demand for alumina will probably depress alumina prices and eventually hurt all alumina producers, Alcoa included.
"Eventually, Alcoa may come out ahead, but it may get hurt in the short term," said Mr. Bradford, who has placed a "hold" on all aluminum stocks except Reynolds Metals, which he is recommending because it has a loyal domestic clientele and sells little alumina on the open market.
The intrigue is enough to make one wonder what would have happened if Isaiah, the biblical prophet, had lived after Adam Smith.
Instead of being thankful that former enemies had laid down their arms, political leaders might have had to contend with the consequences of swords being beaten into plowshares. The plowshare makers would be furious with the makers of swords for dumping their surplus metal on the market and killing their profit margins. What a bummer.


GRAPHIC: American aluminum makers want to roll back the amount of aluminum exported from former Soviet republics closer to cold-war levels. Figures are estimates in milions of metric tons.
 
American Industry's Deman
Chart: "Back To Square One"
 Immediately slash production by a third. Limit exports* to 500,000 metric tons in 1994, rising no more than 10 percent a year through 2000, excluding any output from plants upgraded to Western environmental and safety standards. (Source: Aluminum Association Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: WSN (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORWAY (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (51%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (83%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (83%); ALUMINUM ASSOCIATION (59%); ALUMINUM ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (83%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (83%); ALUMINUM ASSOCIATION (59%); ALUMINUM ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORWAY (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: ALUMINUM; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRODUCTION; INDUSTRY PROFILES; STOCKS AND BONDS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (93%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (91%); METALS MARKETS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); ALUMINUM MARKETS (78%); BASE METALS MARKETS (78%); SPOT MARKET (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); LOBBYING (76%); BONDS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); 

PERSON: COWAN, ALISON LEIGH

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1993



660 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Market Bill Is Passed

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
It took more than two years and came with little fanfare. But around 2 A.M. yesterday, the House of Representatives gave the final approval needed to pass the bond market legislation proposed in the wake of the Salomon Brothers Treasury scandal in August 1991.
The bill, which was passed by the Senate on Monday night and is expected to be signed by President Clinton, would make some important changes in the regulation of the $2.4 trillion Government securities market. 
 Under the legislation, Government securities brokers and dealers in the Treasury market would have to follow sales practice rules. Similar rules now apply to brokers in the stock and municipal bond markets. These rules include suitability standards, which require that a broker determine that a security being sold to a customer be appropriate for that customer's needs and financial status.
 
Rules From the N.A.S.D.
 The new rules would be written and enforced by the National Association of Securities Dealers and the bank regulatory agencies. Under the present law, the N.A.S.D. is prohibited from writing such rules for the Government securities market.
A second change is new authority for the Government to get reports on holdings of Treasury securities from big players in the market, including hedge funds and others outside of the circle of primary dealers, who are the main bidders in the Treasury auction process.
This power will be used when the Treasury is trying to determine if there is a shortage of a certain Treasury security in the market that could lead to the manipulation of the price. Such a so-called squeeze could be natural -- that is, legal -- or it could be illegal.
Taken together, the changes do not add up to a major overhaul of the Treasury market or the addition of much new regulation that is being opposed by the industry. But the change from the Bush Treasury to the Clinton Treasury probably made the final version a little more far- reaching.
 
Some Changes Already in Place
 Many of the biggest changes in how the market is watched day to day and the operation of the Treasury auction were made with administrative moves by the major regulatory agencies almost two years ago. Some changes, like a redesigned and public bidding process in Treasury auctions, rather than secret bidding, are still being developed.
Most of the changes in the new law were included as recommendations in a January 1992 report on the Salomon scandal. The report was made jointly by the Treasury, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
But all the recommendation did not have the support of all the agencies. For example, the Treasury Department during the Bush Administration wanted veto power over the sales practice rules. The Federal Reserve Board said there was no need for such rules.
Several other changes are included in the legislation:
*The rule-making authority granted to the Treasury in the Government Securities Act of 1986 is extended permanently.
*It becomes a clear violation of the law for a person to make false or misleading statements in bidding in any Government securities auction.
*The anti-fraud authority of the Securities and Exchange Commission over the Government securities market is strengthened.
*All Government securities brokers and dealers are required to provide the exact record and timing of transactions if the S.E.C. needs the data for surveillance or enforcement purposes.
One provision not included in the law was authority sought by the S.E.C. to allow it to mandate, if it deemed necessary, better dissemination of secondary market price data in the Treasury market.
 
'Important New Protections'
 "I am particularly pleased that we were able to agree on significant reform of the Government securities market that responds to the lessons of the Salomon Brothers and related scandals," said Representative Edward J. Markey, the Massachusetts Democrat who is the chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Telecommunications and Finance and the principal House author of the bill. "This bill will enhance market surveillance and enforcement and provide important new protections for investors."
Heather L. Ruth, the president of the Public Securities Association, said the new legislation was a "balanced approach to regulation in this market."
Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen also applauded the legislation.
In August 1991, Salomon admitted to submitting illegal bids in the Treasury auction of the Government's securities. The scandal led to the resignation of the top management of the firm, millions of dollars in fines and a long struggle by Salomon to regain its footing on Wall Street.
Among the key policy changes announced in early 1992 was the Treasury threat to combat any "acute, protracted" shortage of securities in the market -- a squeeze -- by immediately issuing new securities to relieve the shortage, whether it was natural or illegal. The Treasury first used this policy with the 10-year note at the November 1992 auction and did it again with the auction of the 10-year note this month.
There is debate in the market over whether the Treasury will reopen the current 6.25 percent 30-year issue because of signs of a serious shortage there.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Treasury Market
 Prices jumped and yields fell in the Treasury market yesterday, ending at least for a day the sharp selloff in the bond market.
Traders said the market had sold off more than it had to, given the economic outlook, and was bouncing back a little. The success of the Treasury's five-year note auction also helped.
The price of the 30-year bond rose one point as the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 6.31 percent, from 6.38 percent on Monday. The price of the three-year note rose 6/32 as the yield dropped to 4.52 percent from 4.59 percent.
In the five-year-note auction, the high yield was 5.20 percent, up from 4.81 percent in October and the highest since July. But in trading after the auction, the yield fell to 5.14 percent in the when-issued market, which meant that a lot of dealers who bought the new note could have made a nice profit in the afternoon.
Following is the result of the Treasury auction of five-year notes yesterday:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
High Yield . . . 5.20%
Low Yield . . . 5.12%
Median Yield . . . 5.18%
Accepted at low price . . . 82%
Total applied for . . . $29,800,885
Accepted . . . $11,022,605
Noncompetitive . . . $473,000
Interest set at . . . 5 1/8%
 
The five-year notes mature on Nov. 30, 1998.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" shows yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. (Source: Technical Data) (pg. D14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (61%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: SALOMON BROTHERS INC; TREASURY DEPARTMENT; NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (61%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SALOMON BROTHERS INC; TREASURY DEPARTMENT; NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGISLATION (93%); BOND MARKETS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); APPROVALS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); BONDS (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); SCANDALS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); VETO (77%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); SECURITIES LAW (76%); SECURITIES BROKERS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (51%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1993



661 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Comptroller Says City's Slump Is Ending

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

 BODY:
H. Carl McCall, the New York State Comptroller, said yesterday that New York City was beginning a slow, uneven recovery after a four-year slump that cut far deeper than elsewhere in the nation.
"This report is good news, if only because the bad news is finally ending," said Mr. McCall. His conclusion that the downward economic drift had reached bottom echoed the views expressed by many of the city's economists and business leaders in recent months. 
 "The city still has a long way to go," Mr. McCall said. "There are still a lot of businesses hurting."
But his report, assessing conditions in several major industries, found reason for optimism that the recovery will accelerate next year.
 
Little Comfort for Next Year
 The state report, prepared by Rosemary Scanlon, who joined Mr. McCall's staff in October after serving the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey as chief economist, said that construction of homes and industrial buildings should pick up because of low interest rates. An improvement in the weak economies of Europe and Japan should bolster the city's international business, the report predicted.
The report was released only a day after advisers to Mayor David N. Dinkins released new fiscal projections that the city faced a $1.73 billion budget deficit next year -- $450 million more than had been expected. And while providing evidence of some economic improvement, Mr. McCall's report offered little comfort to Mr. Dinkins's successor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, whose aides have predicted a fiscal crisis next year.
"Clearly, if the economy's getting better, then the city's getting better," said Mr. McCall, who served as president of the city's Board of Education before being named state comptroller. "But the recovery in the city will be slow."
The study found some economic factors that are improving and some that remain mired in a slump.
While unemployment in the city has improved since January (when it reached 13.4 percent), the October rate of 10.3 percent indicated a sudden worsening in the job market. In September, unemployment was 8.7 percent.
Even without the rise, the city's rate would be higher than that of the nation, which has been less than 7 percent of late.
But the report said the city's rate of inflation, which averaged 3.1 percent first 10 months this year, was virtually identical to the 3.0 percent for the nation. Thus, the report said, "the inflation premium of doing business in the city," which has discouraged business expansion for decades, has been eliminated.
Among the city's best economic performers, the report said, are companies providing services in health care, social service and finance. Leading the list is the securities industry, where salaries and bonuses continue to soar (as they have for three years) and employment is expanding.
On Wall Street, where the report said pay averages more than $100,000 a year, the job ranks have expanded by 4,900 since April 1992, and the prosperity seems certain to generate increased retail sales and other economic improvment.
"The securities industry has thus far been the driving force in the city's move toward economic stability," the report said.
It found little evidence of revival in the tourism industry, however. Although hotel occupancy in the city improved slightly first nine months of the year, to 67.7 percent from 67.2 percent, room rates at the hotels continued a four-year decline and passenger traffic through the three major airports serving the city declined slightly.
Among the most serious economic problems, the report found that 1.1 million people, or 15 percent of the city's population, were receiving public assistance in September. That was the highest number since Federal public assistance was instituted in the 1940's. And it represented a 25 percent increase since June 1989.
Among the glimmers of improvement, the report said, are the battered commercial real-estate market, where leasing increased 8 percent in the first half of the year, vacancy rates have fallen slightly, and rental rates, which had plunged since 1988, have leveled off.
Mr. McCall said he expected the signs of slow recovery to become more widespread next year. "I am cautiously optimistic that there is light at the end of the tunnel," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TRENDS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); BONUS PAY (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); PORT AUTHORITIES (53%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J; MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER) RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1993



662 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Recover Slightly As Dow Climbs by 3.92

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE

 BODY:
Stocks yesterday recovered some of the losses suffered in Monday's sharp selloff, as investors were buoyed by a rally in the Treasury bond market and Britain cut its base lending rate.
"The market reaction was a snapback from the beating that interest-sensitive stocks have taken in the last few days," said John H. Shaughnessy, senior vice president of Advest Inc. "It reflects the feeling that the Fed won't be obliged to raise short-term interest rates." 
 All three major stock market indicators rose, with the Dow Jones industrial average up 3.92 points, to 3,674.17, the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks up 1.90, to 461.03 and the Nasdaq composite index up 8.69 points, to 746.82.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange declined to 261.6 million shares, from 280.1 millin shares the previous day, presumably because some traders had left for the Thanksgiving Day holiday.
However, the Dow Jones transportation index declined 17.95 points, led by AMR, the parent of American Airlines, off 3 1/2, to 65 1/8; Delta Air Lines, off 1 1/2, to 57 1/2, and UAL, the parent of United Airlines, off 2 1/2, to 136 1/2. Airline analysts noted that President Clinton's intervention in settling the four-day strike by American's flight attendants, which ended on Monday with an agreement to arbitrate the dispute, helped to push down prices of the major airline stocks.
 
Lower Interest-Rate News
 But it was lower interest-rate news that captured much of the attention of investors during the day, prompting many people to move money from bonds to stocks in expectation of higher returns. The yield on the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond fell to 6.31 percent, from 6.38 percent on Monday, its highest level in more than three months.
And the Bank of England dropped the rate that is equivalent to the discount rate in the United States, the interest that the Federal Reserve charges member banks for loans, to 5.5 percent from 6 percent.
Among the interest-sensitve stock groups that benefited from these developments were electric utilities and banks. Among the utilities, Philadelphia Electric advanced 3/8, to 28; Long Island Lighting gained 3/8, to 24 3/8, and Commonwealth Edison increased 1/2, to 28 3/8.
Both regional and money-center banks were strong. Fleet Financial was up 1/2, to 30 1/2, and Bank of Boston was up 1/4, to 21 5/8, while BankAmerica rose 1 3/8, to 42 5/8, and Citicorp rose 1 1/4, to 35.
Strength was also evident among international oil issues, with analysts noting that a meeting of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries could result in action to reduce production in order to stabilize prices in the crude oil market. British Petroleum's American depository receipts advanced 1 7/8,, to 61 1/2, and Royal Dutch increased 1 3/4, to 102 3/4.
Microchip stocks were firm as well. Micron Technology was up 4 1/4, to 43 3/4; Intel was up 1 3/8, to 58 7/8, and Texas Instruments was up 3, to 64.
Other big gainers included Circus Circus, which picked up 1 to close at 32 3/4 after it reached an agreement to build a riverboat casino near New Orleans; Starbucks, which advanced 1 1/2, to 23 after Paine Webber raised its rating of the gourmet coffee company to "attractive," and Avecor Cardiovascular, which gained 1 1/8, to 9 7/8, after receiving approval from the Food and Drug Administration for a blood oxygenator device.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (85%); BAC (LSE) (85%); 8648 (TSE) (85%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); DAL (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (52%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) BANK OF AMERICA CORP (85%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (55%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%); BANK OF ENGLAND (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); AIRLINES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); MONEY CENTER BANKS (74%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); THANKSGIVING (67%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (66%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (64%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (64%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (64%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1993



663 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Pact at USX Would Bring Pay Increases

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, Nov. 23

 BODY:
A tentative labor agreement between the United Steelworkers of America and USX-U.S. Steel Group Inc. would give union members pay increases, guarantees against layoffs except in case of disaster and representation on the company's board, the union said today.
The union's negotiating committee voted overwhelmingly this morning to recommend that members employed at U.S. Steel, the largest United States steel company, approve the agreement. 
 No date has been set for the voting. The union's current contract with USX expires on Jan. 31.
It was only after this morning's vote that the union released details of the agreement, which runs for five and a half years and resembles agreements it reached last summer with other major steelmakers, including the Bethlehem Steel Corporation, the National Steel Corporation and Inland Steel Industries.
 
 
'A New Day'
 The contract would be effective on Feb. 1, 1994, and expire on July 31, 1999, the same time that the union's contracts with the other large steel companies expire.
"This contract represents the start of a new day in relations between the company and its workers," said Andrew Palm, chairman of the union's negotiating committee with USX. The contract covers 15,000 workers in four states.
In exchange for gains by the union, the contract covers a longer period than normal and includes a provision that would allow USX to reopen it under certain conditions, with binding arbitration if the parties were unable to reach agreement.
The contract also includes a wage increase of 50 cents an hour effective on Feb. 1, 1996, and bonuses of $5,000 over the life of the agreement to offset the effects of inflation, additional bonuses totaling $2,000 to be paid prior to a reopening and a further bonus of up to $1,000 in 1996 if company profits reach $300 million in 1995. Before the increase, the average hourly pay of union members was $14 to $15, excluding benefits.
Shares of USX-U.S. Steel Group rose 12.5 cents today, closing at $35.875 on the New York Stock Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: X (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (94%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS423510 METAL SERVICE CENTERS & OTHER METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (56%); NAICS332322 SHEET METAL WORK MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA; USX CORP/US STEEL GROUP UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (94%); BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (70%); NATIONAL STEEL CORP (69%); RYERSON HOLDING CORP (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (91%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA; USX CORP/US STEEL GROUP UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (91%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; CONTRACTS; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; LAYOFFS (LABOR); LABOR ROLE IN MANAGEMENT COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1993



664 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate;
With hopes that casino gambling will soon follow, Philadelphia developers plan retail centers.

BYLINE: By David J. Wallace

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA

 BODY:
A 42-ACRE retail center is under construction on the Delaware River waterfront here, amid signs that future development on adjacent properties may include casino gambling in shoreline buildings, on piers and aboard ships.
The developer of the retail project, the Rubin Organization Inc., is building more than 250,000 square feet of retail space, two restaurants and parking at its Pier 70 Plaza project. Years ago, the land was occupied by the shoreside buildings that served the piers beyond. Rubin, based in Philadelphia, has reportedly sold options on four piers at the edge of its property to Capital Gaming International, a casino operator. Rubin would not comment on the sale. 
 Pier 70 Plaza sits alongside the riverfront dividing Pennsylvania and New Jersey. It fronts on Columbus Boulevard, south of Tasker Street, about a 10-minute drive from downtown. It was once home to shipping and storage operations, but it sat vacant for more than a decade. The six-lane Columbus Boulevard remains a truck route to the port, but also provides the gateway to a two-mile stretch of restaurants, bars and shops, bracketed at the north and south by working ports.
 
Spring Openings Planned
 The tenants at Pier 70, Wal-Mart and Sam's Warehouse Club, will open stores of 129,000 square feet each, and the Home Depot is building a 135,000-square-foot store. All are expected to open by next spring, said Douglas Grayson, the development director for Rubin.
Rubin has planned other retail projects at former industrial sites -- one at a vacant Sears, Roebuck & Company warehouse in northeast Philadelphia and another at the former Baldwin Locomotive plant, which is a 20-minute drive from the waterfront.
The Mayor of Philadelphia, Edward G. Rendell, has supported waterfront development, but his stance has raised opposition. Local 1776 of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union argued, for example, that "category killer" stores -- so called because they dominate a retail category -- are unsuited to the waterfront and will divert business from other stores in the area.
Mr. Grayson estimated the value of the Pier 70 Plaza project to be $30 million. The Delaware River area has become a magnet for retail development despite years of planning for high-rise residential and office buildings that were never built, he said.
 
Commercial Support
 "A lot of the properties down there are in the hands of commercial speculators," Mr. Grayson said. "You can't anticipate what the market's going to do. The market -- and the city -- has supported commercial development instead of industrial, whether for retail or casinos."
On an parcel adjacent to the Pier 70 Plaza, another Philadelphia company, Tower Investments, had planned a competing retail center with Builders Square and PACE Membership Warehouse, but it never materialized. Tower's first project in the waterfront area was a 150,000-square-foot strip center and theater complex on Columbus Boulevard -- still called Delaware Avenue by Philadelphians despite a 1991 name change by the City Council.
The waterfront area boomed when access to Interstate 95 was improved with new ramps to and from Columbus Boulevard, and about 80 acres of land was rezoned for commercial development instead of industrial use. Retailers like the Pep Boys, the auto repair retailer, and Silo, an electronics chain, are considering opening stores in the area to serve southern New Jersey and Philadelphia.
 
Prepared to Wait
 Yet Tower appears ready to wait for the possibility of riverfront gaming operations, in what casino analysts tout as a premier location midway between New York and Washington.
Mayor Rendell's support has fueled speculation that state approval will follow in a few years. Gov. Robert Casey opposes gaming, but several 1994 gubernatorial candidates have given developers enough hope to merit selling options on land to gaming companies.
Still, casino development is hardly certain. In late October, State Senator Vincent J. Fumo, a Democrat from Philadelphia who is a leading proponent of casino gaming, said he would support only ships for gaming after Atlantic City casino owners challenged a Pennsylvania gaming proposal.
Mr. Fumo said the Philadelphia waterfront had limited space for new construction and existing hospitality businesses should be protected from the kind of development in Atlantic City, where giant buildings with casinos, restaurants and hotel rooms attracted visitors only to a single area of the city.
Philadelphia officials view gaming as an extension of the tourist economy tied to the Pennsylvania Convention Center, which opened downtown in June. The type of gaming and the locations are undecided.
The critics of casinos said they opposed bringing them to the city because Atlantic City was a 90-minute drive away and had regular train service to Philadelphia. Other sources of competition for waterfront sites are the Delaware River Port Authority and the Philadelphia Regional Port Authority, which want the sites used for cargo and trucking.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: REAL ESTATE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (91%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (91%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: RUBIN ORGANIZATION INC HOME DEPOT INC (91%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUBIN ORGANIZATION INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;DELAWARE RIVER; PHILADELPHIA (PA) UNITED STATES (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; GAMBLING; CASINOS; SHOPPING CENTERS RETAILERS (93%); CASINOS (93%); GAMING (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (89%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%); DRINKING PLACES (66%); LABOR UNIONS (62%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK MFG (50%); 

PERSON: WALLACE, DAVID J ED RENDELL (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1993



665 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Ends Mostly Lower After U.S. Treasury Report

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar finished mostly lower yesterday after seesawing against the Japanese yen in anticipation of a Treasury Department report. Some traders mistakenly thought that the report would indicate a shift in United States policy toward the Japanese currency.
Many investors bought dollars and sold yen early, expecting that the Treasury Department would abandon what some have called its "strong yen policy." But the department, in its semiannual report to Congress on exchange-rate policy, merely said exchange rates should follow the economy, rather than being manipulated by governments. 
 "The market was expecting way too much from these comments," said Mike McKeever, an assistant vice president at Fuji Bank Ltd. in New York.
The dollar shot up over 109 yen early yesterday. "The market got ahead of itself," said Robert Ryan, a vice president at Bank of New York. But after the report was released, the dollar retreated to 108.38 yen in late New York trading, down from 108.47 yen on Monday.
Traders believe United States officials "talked up" the yen earlier this year in order to reduce the American trade deficit. A stronger yen could help close the trade gap by making Japanese imports more expensive, and United States exports to Japan cheaper.
Meanwhile, gold prices dropped yesterday. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for December delivery lost $1.20, closing at $377.30 an ounce. The Republic National Bank of New York quoted spot gold at $377 an ounce, down $1.
The British pound also scored against the dollar after the British Government lowered base lending rates by half a percentage point, 5.5 percent. In New York, the pound ended at $1.4855, up from $1.4760 on Monday.
While the British rate cut lowers the return for investors in sterling-denominated deposits, it was seen as a boost to the ailing British economy. In addition, sterling rallied because the interest rate cut was expected to be Britain's last for some time, while Germany was expected to continue cutting its rates, according to Amy Smith, senior currency strategist at the IDEA analytic service.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (66%); HSB (PAR) (66%); HBC (NYSE) (66%); 0005 (HKSE) (66%); BK (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (70%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (66%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FUJI BANK LTD (70%); HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (66%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (66%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; GOLD CURRENCIES (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); BRITISH POUND (77%); SPOT MARKET (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); EXPORT PRICES (71%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1993



666 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Sotheby's Chief Is Leaving As Auction Sales Rebound

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

 BODY:
Sotheby's Holdings Inc. announced yesterday that Michael L. Ainslie, its president and chief executive, was stepping down and would be replaced by Diana D. Brooks, the president and chief executive of its worldwide auction division.
Mr. Ainslie, 50, who joined Sotheby's in 1984, is leaving the top post as the auction business shows signs of breaking out of a three-year slump that battered the company's balance sheet. 
 He will remain chairman of Sotheby's international realty division and a member of the company's board of directors and executive committee. He is also the third-largest shareholder in Sotheby's, with 1.26 million shares.
Ms. Brooks, 43, has risen steadily through the ranks since 1979 and had been considered by many analysts as the heir apparent at the world's largest auction house. She is best known for her success in heading its operations in North and South America in the late 80's.
 
'Doing a Terrific Job'
 She has been doing a terrific job," said Terrence J. McEvoy, vice president of research at Janney Montgomery Scott. "It would have been surprising if she hadn't gotten it."
The rebound in the auction business has buoyed the company's stock in recent weeks. On the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, Sotheby's closed at $15, unchanged, on volume of about 152,000 shares. The stock had fallen as low as $10.75 over the summer.
Sotheby's fall sales of Impressionist and modern paintings, European furniture and jewelry all yielded strong prices, helping to inspire the overall auction market.
Revenues at Sotheby's, which is based in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., and is also involved in art-related financing and luxury real estate, dropped from $441.9 million in 1989 to $224.9 million in 1992. Income plunged in that period from $112.7 million to $4 million.
For the third quarter of 1993, the company reported a loss of $12.7 million on revenues of $24.6 million, compared with a loss of $13.2 million on revenues of $26.2 million in the third quarter of 1992.
 
Time to Move On
 Mr. Ainslie, who will officially give up his post on March 31, 1994, said in an interview that he had committed himself to staying about a decade at Sotheby's. After guiding the company through the last three rocky years, during which he cut costs by $50 million, he felt it was time to move on, he said.
"I came in 1984 just as the company was coming out of the last art market recession," he said. "I benefited greatly from the fact that the market was recovering but not strong across the board. Now we are at a very similar point in the art market cycle. Frankly, I feel the next generation of leadership and management should have that same prerogative."
Ms. Brooks said one of her biggest challenges would be to insure that Sotheby's continued to adapt to a rapidly evolving international market that was being buffeted by disputes over trade barriers and value-added taxes.
"The art world has become extremely complex," she said. "The amounts of money are much bigger. The export issues are much greater. This is a much tougher business than it was a decade ago."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael L. Ainslie, who is stepping down as president and chief executive of Sotheby's Holdings, posed yesterday with his successor, Diana D. Brooks, at the East Side auction house. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (98%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (98%); 

COUNTRY: SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (66%); UNITED STATES (53%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S HOLDINGS INC SOTHEBY'S (98%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOTHEBY'S HOLDINGS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (66%); UNITED STATES (53%); MICHIGAN, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES AUCTIONS (93%); EXECUTIVES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); ART DEALERS (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); PAINTING (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); 

PERSON: AINSLIE, MICHAEL L; BROOKS, DIANA D; LEVY, CLIFFORD J MICHAEL L AINSLIE (92%); DIANA D BROOKS (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1993



667 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Oil Prices Tumble Sharply As OPEC Is Seen Faltering

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Crude oil prices fell sharply yesterday on the perception that OPEC oil ministers, meeting in Vienna, have lost their ability to control prices.
"I have never seen the market sell off like this while the cartel was in conference," Peter Beutel, an energy analyst with Brody, White & Company in New York, said. "Normally the market treats OPEC with a little more respect than that." 
 On the New York Mercantile Exchange, light sweet crude oil for January delivery sagged 47 cents, to $16.63 a barrel.
Other energy futures prices fell as well. December heating oil plunged 1.25 cents, to 50.33 cents a gallon; December unleaded gasoline dropped 1.06 cents, to 44.57 cents a gallon; January natural gas fell 0.44 cent, to $2.352 for 1,000 cubic feet.
Crude prices fell despite a warning from Gabon's Energy Minister, Jean Ping, the outgoing president of the 12-nation Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, that oil prices were "dangerously" low and that producers must take whatever action is necessary to raise them.
 
'Back Against the Wall'
 OPEC "has got its back against the wall," said Tom Bentz, director of energy trading at Quantum Financial Services in New York.
He said it would take at least a 3 percent cut in OPEC's current production of 24.5 million barrels a day to get a market response.
"The question is," Mr. Bentz said, "even if they make the cuts, will the market go up?" He said demand was lackluster and supplies were more than adequate.
The average price of an OPEC price marker -- a basket of crude oil prices monitored by the organization -- skidded on Monday to $14.70 for a 42-gallon barrel. That OPEC benchmark is at its lowest level in more than three years and far off the group's target of $21 a barrel.
The market was also under pressure from news that Tariq Aziz, Deputy Prime Minister of Iraq, said he would remain in New York as long as necessary to reach an agreement with the United Nations on conditions that would allow Iraq to resume oil exports.
"The market seemed to be saying very clearly that Iraq is in charge of its own destiny and OPEC is not," Mr. Beutel said.
Elsewhere on the New York Mercantile Exchange, platinum fell on worries about declining demand from Japan, a major consumer of the metal for jewelry and pollution-control systems. January platinum fell $6.80, to $374.10 an ounce.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6221 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERS & DEALERS (72%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (93%); AUSTRIA (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (91%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) BRODY WHITE & CO INC (72%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); QUANTUM FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (55%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (93%); AUSTRIA (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (91%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES; FUTURES TRADING OIL & GAS PRICES (96%); FUTURES (92%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (91%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (91%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CARTELS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); PLATINUM MARKETS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); GASOLINE (79%); HEATING OIL (79%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1993



668 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Behind a Glamorous Image, Flying Working Class

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DENVER, Nov. 23

 BODY:
The corporate stylebook so strictly decrees the proper image of flight attendants, from head to heels, that they have a wry saying about the requirements of their jobs: "You've got to be willing to go anywhere -- and to cut your hair."
And along with the cheerful smiles and starched shirts, the attendants say they are expected to be accommodating, even obedient. 
 "We're seen as 'nice girls,' not to be taken seriously," said Rebecca Denmark, a 33-year-old flight attendant, who walked the picket line in the strike against American Airlines, which ended on Monday with both sides agreeing to binding arbitration. "And we are nice. But there comes a time when you can't be a wimp any longer. You have to stand up and say, 'Enough!' "
As the flight attendants returned to work today, the scene at gate 23 inside Stapleton Airport here looked like a joyous family reunion.
 
Working-Class People
 If the strike has changed the way airlines view flight attendants, it has also changed the way they see themselves.
The image of what used to be called stewardesses, leading lives of glamour and jet-setting, has changed sharply in the many years since the mystique of air travel has vanished for ordinary Americans. For all the trips to Paris and Hong Kong and San Francisco, these are working-class people, including some who say they are paid so little that they qualify for food stamps.
But despite the demanding travel and rules, the complaints from passengers, and dissatisfaction with the wages -- which can start at $16,000 a year -- most flight attendants say they love their jobs.
"The schedules are flexible, the pace can be exhilarating and you can live wherever you want," said Ms. Denmark, an avid hiker and skier, who lives near the mountains in Boulder. "And if you're married, and your spouse gets transferred, you can just take your job to a new city."
 
'Addicted to the Flexibility'
 Carolyn Albers, who graduated from Southern Methodist University in 1986 with a degree in economics and finance, took a job as a flight attendant on a lark, figuring she would stay no longer than two years.
But now, eight years later, Ms. Albers, who is 29 years old, said she had become "addicted to the flexibility," a schedule that allows her to take off a week at a time without dipping into her vacation.
Because of her job at American Airlines, she has friends in London and can take in a play there on the 24-hour layover. On trips to Honolulu, she can spend at least an afternoon at the ocean.
"And I look at my friends in business jobs," she said, "grinding away every night until 6:30, not making any big money, and this job doesn't look so bad."
But there are sacrifices. As her family in Texas gathers for a turkey dinner on Thanksgiving, she will be serving drinks on a plane to Hawaii and reminding passengers to keep their seats in the upright position.
American says its wages and benefits are competitve. And while some flight attendants complain about rules on hair and shoe heels, John Marucci, a spokesman for American, said, "They certainly haven't scared off the thousands of people who applied for these jobs during the strike."
Flight attendants are paid for hours in the air, from the time the cabin door closes until it opens again, but not for the hours spent waiting between planes. They average about 75 hours in the air a month, but that could mean being away from home 15 days in that period.
 
Cereal and Peanut Butter
 During the waiting time, they receive $1.50 an hour for expenses, hardly enough for a big dinner out. Many flight attendants carry boxes of cereal and jars of peanut butter inside their travel bags.
It is not uncommon for four or more flight attendants to share an apartment.
And for those with children, the days away from home pose a particular problem, since a full-time nanny would probably cost as much as a flight attendant earns.
"My neighbor watches the kids, and my sister-in-law, and my mother-in-law," said Cynthia Ecker, a 37-year-old flight attendant who lives in suburban Denver and has a 2-year-old son and an infant daughter.
And the long-distance telephone calls home are expensive. "Being without my kids is the hardest thing about this job," Mrs. Ecker said. "There are days when I'll see a baby on board, and I'll just start crying."
Flight attendants are no longer required to be single and under 32 years old, but they must still be slender. A 20-year-old woman who is 5 feet 4 inches can weigh no more than 130 pounds. The rules allow women to gain a few pounds as they age, but not many. When that same woman is 34, she can weigh no more than 135 pounds.
On board, flight attendants typically wear flat shoes. But as they walk through the airport, they are required to wear heels. During the six-week training session, they must be willing to change their hair styles to the liking of the company, and are given guidance on the application of makeup. If a supervisor spots an unsightly pimple, flight attendants say, they can be pulled off a jet without pay.
And while there are no stated requirements of physical beauty, one flight attendant, Cindy Lutz, chuckled, "We do all look an awful lot alike, don't we?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: "I look at my friends in business jobs, grinding away every night until 6:30, not making any big money, and this job doesn't look so bad," said Carolyn Albers. The eight-year American Airlines flight attendant packed her bag at her home in Denver for her first flight since the strike. (Brian Brainerd for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATION OF PROFESSIONAL FLIGHT ATTENDANTS; AMERICAN AIRLINES INC AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF PROFESSIONAL FLIGHT ATTENDANTS; AMERICAN AIRLINES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%); COLORADO, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FLIGHT ATTENDANTS; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (91%); AIRLINES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); STRIKES (77%); HIKING (75%); FAMILY (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); SKIING (62%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (54%); FOOD STAMPS (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DIRK MICHAEL MCMAHON (72%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1993



669 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Strike Is Called Victory For Women, Not Unions

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 23

 BODY:
President Clinton's intervention Monday in the strike by flight attendants at American Airlines represented a breakthrough for working women, rather than a victory for organized labor, union leaders said today.
The airlines, more than most industries, are thoroughly dominated by well-paid men, both those who run them and those who fly the planes. Through the years, flight attendants, most of them women, have been forced to settle for less than the airlines' male employees -- less pay, inferior benefits, more inconvenient working arrangements and indignities including rigid dress and weight codes and lectures on how to be nice. 
 American Airlines flight attendants earn an average of $23,000 a year, both the company and the flight attendants union acknowledge, which is about 20 percent of the pay of the average American Airlines pilot. Even American's baggage handlers, most of them men, earn more than flight attendants.
Women also make up almost half -- 46 percent -- of the workforce, but few have been admitted to its leadership in either management or unions. Of the 35 members of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s policy-making executive council, three are women, and only Lenore Miller of the 80,000-member Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union in New York is a union president.
In this dispute, American's 21,000-member Association of Professional Flight Attendants, some of them single mothers, resented management's frequent assertions that labor costs were more responsible for the company's financial woes than the debt and other costs it amassed in expanding the airline in the 1980's.
 
Aversion to Confusion
 And the attendants recoiled from management's plan to throw more confusion into their already complicated work schedules. Randy Edwards, a spokesman for the attendants, said the members recognize American's need to reduce its staff to sustain its business.
But the attendants said they feared brutal levels of layoffs and work-procedure changes, citing an example of a Boeing 767 flying to Europe. The Federal Aviation Administration requires the airline to provide a minimum of five attendants. But Mr. Edwards said American routinely flew with 10 or 11. Attendants could sign up for several extra positions, and the airline recruited the rest from attendants assigned to a reserve pool.
He said reservists are on two-hour notice to report for flights and are thus unable to plan their days with any certainty. Now, he said, American wanted to eliminate the fixed extra slots and rely on reservists for all attendants beyond the required five. Mr. Edwards said the result would be fewer attendants and a much larger reserve pool.
Rather than submit, the women all but shut the airline down, stunning a management that miscalculated the depth of resentment against it and forcing it to agree to submit the dispute to an arbitrator, just a day after its chairman, Robert L. Crandall, publicly rebuffed the attendants' call for arbitration.
 
Airline Sought Talks
 "The real heroes of this are the flight attendants," said Ron Carey, president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, the largest union in the A.F.L.-C.I.O. Mr. Carey said he respected the attendants' refusal to yield even when American began hiring permanent replacements.
A senior Administration official revealed today that Mr. Crandall had initiated the contact with the White House, apparently because he recognized how much the strike was hurting the airline. The official said Mr. Crandall called the White House to suggest arbitration, and then Mr. Clinton called Mr. Crandall to confirm the plan.
"Crandall got his chestnuts pulled out of the fire for him," said Rex Hardesty, an A.F.L.-C.I.O. spokesman.
Today, American denied rumors that Mr. Crandall would resign. American issued a statement at a news conference at its headquarters in Fort Worth that quoted Mr. Crandall as saying, "Nothing can be farther from the truth." The statement also said that Mr. Crandall believed he had the total support of the board of directors.
 
Heavy Economic Toll
 The airline acknowledged that the attendants' strike took an enormous toll. After three years of losses, the company had been making money this year -- $143 million through the first nine months. The cost of the strike, said Marty Heires, a spokesman for the airline, "is going to be some big numbers." He added: "It's going to be enough to force a loss for this year. The flight attendants certainly did a good job of disrupting things."
But Mr. Heires took issue with those who interpreted the dispute in terms of the relative power of men and women. "It's not that the attendants are a weaker group," he said. "It's that the pilots pose a greater threat because they can immediately put the airline out of business." The time needed to train new attendants, normally nearly six weeks and reduced to 10 days during the strike, is much less than for training a pilot.
Early in the five-day strike, American's pilots considered joining the attendants' walk-out. But Denise C. Hedges, president of the attendants union urged them, instead, to stay on the job and picket in sympathy with the strikers during their time off.
"It was our own battle," Ms. Hedges said. "The battle was for respect, and that's what we'll carry away from this for the rest of our careers. I asked, 'Please don't strike with us.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: With the strike resolved, flight attendants for American Airlines thanked passing motorists yesterday at Nashville International Airport. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATION OF PROFESSIONAL FLIGHT ATTENDANTS; AMERICAN AIRLINES INC AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (92%); BOEING CO (57%); AFL-CIO (55%); RETAIL WHOLESALE & DEPARTMENT STORE UNION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF PROFESSIONAL FLIGHT ATTENDANTS; AMERICAN AIRLINES INC AFL-CIO (55%); RETAIL WHOLESALE & DEPARTMENT STORE UNION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FLIGHT ATTENDANTS; LABOR; WOMEN LABOR UNIONS (92%); AIRLINES (91%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (91%); WOMEN (91%); WOMEN WORKERS (90%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (73%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (65%); RETAILERS (65%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1993



670 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: In California, a Lab for the Brady Bill, The Debate on Guns Has No Winner

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 23

 BODY:
As looting and violence spread during last year's rioting, there was a near-riot at Art's Guns in suburban Canoga Park as scores of panicked people discovered they could not buy quick self-protection because of California's 15-day waiting period on gun sales.
At the same time, rioters were breaking into gun stores and pawn shops throughout Los Angeles and carting away what officials now estimate were thousands of weapons of all sorts. 
 It is an object lesson that Randy Linkmeyer, the proprietor of Art's Guns, puts forward when asked about the effect of waiting periods like the five-day hold on handguns included in the Brady bill, which is stalled in the Senate.
"Waiting periods don't work," said Mr. Linkmeyer, expressing a view common among gun owners. "Common criminals don't come into gun stores to buy their guns."
 
Waiting Period for Decades
 Or as Steve Helsley, a spokesman for the California office of the National Rifle Association, put it, "Waiting periods have to do with the good guys and crime has to do with the bad guys."
California has had some form of waiting period for decades, and its current 15-day wait, requiring a background check for the purchase of both handguns and long guns, is the strictest of any in the 22 states that now mandate a delay.
Its laws have made the state something of a laboratory during the years of debate over the Brady bill, which would be the first major Federal gun legislation in 25 years if enacted.
But like virtually everything else in the national struggle over gun control, California's experience has been far from conclusive and has provided ammunition for those on both sides of the issue.
"California has been studied extensively, and there is simply nowhere that we are able to point to a decreased crime rate as a result of restrictions on gun sales," said John Stoos, executive director of Gun Owners of California, a pro-gun lobbying group.
 
Effect Called 'Staggering'
 But backers of the waiting period, like Comdr. David Gascon of the Los Angeles Police Department, point out that the state turns down more than 5,000 applications for gun permits each year because the buyers are felons or mental patients or have been convicted of certain violent misdemeanors.
"The numbers, I think, are staggering," said Commander Gascon, a spokesman for the department, which like many police departments around the country strongly advocates gun control. "Those guns are being kept out of the hands of people who have the potential to really cause tremendous problems in our society."
Among applicants rejected last year after a check of state and Federal computerized crime files and mental health records were people who had committed 37 homicides, 102 sex crimes and seven kidnappings. On the other hand, opponents of the waiting period say, some of the rejections were mistakes and were reversed on appeal.
The background checks, carried out by the state Attorney General's office, involve filling out a document when buying a gun. The gun store then sends the information to Sacramento for a computerized check. Gun buyers return to pick up their guns 15 days later.
The state turned down 5,763 applications last year for permits for both handguns and long guns, but it approved the legal purchases of 553,845 firearms, said Denise Davis, a spokeswoman for the state Attorney General's office.
Some ineligible buyers beat the system by using false identification or by asking friends to buy guns for them. And as for the uncounted firearms that continue to flood the streets through theft or black market sales, Ms. Davis said, "They don't tell us when they go buy illegal weapons."
Indeed, said Rick Swanston, a Los Angeles homicide detective who supports the waiting period for whatever limited effect it may offer, "Most guns involved in crimes are not registered guns."
Commander Gascon acknowledged the huge black market in illegal weapons and said of the gun law: "Everyone has to realize that this is just one small piece of a large mosaic effort that we are trying to make to provide for safety and security in our society. There are always ways to get guns, and what we are doing is scrambling to try to reduce that."
At B & B Sales in North Hollywood, one of the area's biggest gun stores, where human silhouette targets decorate the walls along with posters for high-firepower movies like "The Wild Bunch," both salesmen and customers complained of being targets in a national controversy.
"They have to show the people that they are doing something about crime," said the store's chief executive, Bob Kahn, speaking of what he called a "socialistic" government in Washington. "So what do they do? 'Ah, the Brady bill is going to solve all our problems. Taking away guns is going to solve all our problems.' "
Here on the front lines, he said, the picture is more complex. The convenience store across the street has been held up so many times that people here call it the "Stop and Rob." And during the riots 18 months ago, B & B, like Art's Guns, was thronged with customers desperate to defend themselves.
"We had 200 people in the store waiting as much as three hours to purchase ammunition," Mr. Kahn said. Because of the required waiting period, collectors were passing around weapons to friends and neighbors.
Since then, he said, sales of weapons for self-defense have increased, partly fueled by a sense that illegal firearms have proliferated. "It's scary," he said. "You can buy anything on the street; you can buy heavy weapons."
He added, the riots very much on his mind, "What are you going to do when people with superior firepower come and attack your business or your home and law enforcement doesn't do anything about it?"
 
Guns as Collector's Items
 This week, there was a holiday feel to Mr. Kahn's showroom, with its orderly wall racks of long guns and attractively lighted glass cases of pistols. Signs reminded customers that because of the waiting period they must buy any Christmas weapons by Dec. 8.
"Some people collect porcelain; some collect guns," said a salesman as he rubbed a soft cloth over one of the semiautomatic handguns that, along with certain short-barreled pistols, are the most popular sellers these days. "For me, if you want to make me happy, buy me a gun."
Carroll Shelor, a 43-year-old college economics professor who said he already owned four guns, was here just for the pleasure of it, not to buy, he insisted, though he could not take his eyes off a Sig P-230 .380 caliber semiautomatic pistol, selling for $399.
"Sometimes I just get the itch to buy a gun," he said. "Guns are well-machined and they're fun to play with. To men, to some of us, they are kind of like jewelry, in a sense. They look good and they feel good, and they do appeal to that primal fantasy."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In California, which has had a 15-day waiting period on gun sales for decades, the opinion of its effect in reducing crime is still fiercely debated. A rifle was sampled in a gun shop in Los Angeles; A sign reminds shoppers in California that gun purchases must be completed soon if they are to be received by the holidays. (Photographs by Jan Sonnenmair for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FIREARMS; GUN CONTROL; LAW AND LEGISLATION FIREARMS (92%); GUN CONTROL (92%); RIOTS (92%); CRIME RATES (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (88%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (78%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (76%); POLICE FORCES (76%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); LOBBYING (74%); FELONIES (73%); MISDEMEANORS (73%); MENTAL ILLNESS (73%); HOMICIDE (68%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (68%); MENTAL HEALTH (60%); MEDICAL RECORDS (60%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1993



671 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: The City's Budget: Better and Worse

 BODY:
Mayor David Dinkins's final report on the New York City budget shows him leaving office with a perfect score -- four balances in four years. Expected post-election spending cuts will not be needed to balance this year's books, he says. But in the same report he warns of looming deficit problems much larger than he estimated last summer.
So much for that perfect score, and welcome to City Hall, Mr. Giuliani. 
 Yes, Mr. Dinkins has balanced the budget every year. And it hasn't been easy, what with ever-increasing demands for city services, a crushing and persistent recession and unhelpful tightness in state and Federal aid. Moreover, he is not leaving an immediate crisis like the one he faced in January 1990, when plunging revenues forced him to make drastic spending cuts in his first month. With admirable restraint, he now resists temptation and pressure to inflate spending as he bows out.
Mayor-elect Rudolph Giuliani should be genuinely thankful his start-up will not be burdened by crisis frenzy, but he still must deal with coming deficits. Budget-balancing has been a precarious art in the Dinkins years -- one year at a time, never resolving the long-term problem of matching the city's spending with its revenue potential. As a consequence, Mr. Dinkins now sees $6.9 billion of red ink in the next three years, compared with the $5.1 billion he foresaw only three months ago.
Having lost the election, Mr. Dinkins could afford to publish more unvarnished facts about the city's fiscal dilemma than if it were still his to cope with. Thus his new projection of larger future deficits is roughly in line with existing forecasts by outside experts who keep close watch on the city's accounts, where previously he pretended the outlook was less dour than they said.
Forewarned by this consensus, Mr. Giuliani knows the dimensions of the problem he faces. Perhaps this information will even seep through to Albany, where his fellow Republicans have blocked the city's pleas for more help.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FORECASTS; EDITORIALS BUDGETS (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1993



672 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: Time to Pull Up Your Socks, Puerto Rico

 BODY:
To the Editor:
While I applaud your coverage of the referendum in Puerto Rico, I disagree with the premise of "Puerto Rico Chooses, for Now" (editorial, Nov. 16), that Congress has a responsibility to act on the results of that vote. Given a historical chance to define a permanent relationship with the nation of which they are citizens, the people of Puerto Rico chose not to decide and to cling to an arrangement that is not only colonial in nature but that is also inherently unsustainable. 
 The Federal Government is spending billions of dollars in direct transfers and on special tax provisions to prop up the Puerto Rican economy. While the expense was worth it when Puerto Rico was a strategic and ideological counterbalance to Cuba, that justification is no longer present. In an age of budget deficits and diminishing spending the taxpayers of the 50 states will no longer tolerate spending billions of dollars on people who do not pay Federal taxes.
Already this year Congress voted to begin phasing out the Section 936 program, which encourages United States corporations to relocate in Puerto Rico. Yet the people of Puerto Rico seem unwilling to face reality. Instead, they choose to accept the fallacy fed them by pro-commonwealth leaders that not only will they be able to keep their benefits but also that Congress will grant them additional benefits and even give the Puerto Rican government greater say over how Federal funds are spent than the state governments have. All this, without their assuming any of the responsibilities that citizenship normally entails.
One day they will find Congress has decided for them and declared the Republic of Puerto Rico. Standing with their empty pockets hanging out, wondering what went wrong, they will have no one to blame but themselves.
 
LESTER APONTE-PARSI
Redondo Beach, Calif., Nov. 16, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC4424 COASTAL FREIGHT (84%); 

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PUERTO RICO CONTAINER CO (91%); PUERTO RICO SAFETY EQUIPMENT CORP (91%); PUERTO RICO INDUSTRIAL MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS ACQUISITION CORP (91%); PUERTO RICO INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CO (91%); PUERTO RICO SUN OIL CO (91%); PUERTO RICO TELEPHONE CO (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PUERTO RICO PUERTO RICO (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FEDERAL AID (US); INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFERENDUMS; ELECTIONS REFERENDUMS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US TERRITORIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); BUDGETS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TRENDS (69%); STANDING TO SUE (50%); 

PERSON: APONTE-PARSI, LESTER

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1993



673 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 306 words

HEADLINE: While We Lock Up More People, Street Violence Only Grows

 BODY:
To the Editor:
It is dismaying when someone with the obvious intelligence and erudition of John DiIulio Jr. seriously proposes in "Save the Children" (Op-Ed, Nov. 13) that more police and jails, in whatever concentration or configuration, can help alleviate the crime problems of our cities. 
 It is as if he were unaware of the history of the last 20 years in which this country spent tens of billions of dollars on increasing its imprisoned population by 500 percent without any appreciable effect on the social disorder in our midst.
In New York, for example, the number of state inmates rose from 12,500 in 1973 to more than 64,000 today while the levels of lawlessness and drugs on our streets have only intensified.
The primary reason for the failure of the "lock 'em up" approach is that it is primarily a reactive strategy that comes only after the crime is committed and the damage is done. What is needed is more resources for the kinds of preventive measures, new and proven, that have been largely neglected by government since the early 1970's and that address the fundamental social and economic causes of criminal behavior.
Economic development programs that provide viable jobs, successful street academies that keep teen-agers in school, Head Start programs that support families and provide early childhood education and drug programs that treat people's criminogenic addictions would do much more to stabilize communities and save the children than any law-enforcement tactic.
Mr. DiIulio acknowledges that more police and jails are "Band-Aid" responses. In that case, let us turn to more potent remedies, ones that deal directly with the basic social and economic deficiencies plaguing our cities.
 
ROBERT GANGI
Executive Director, Correctional
Association of New York
New York, Nov. 15, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SAVE THE CHILDREN (84%); SAVE THE CHILDREN (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAVE THE CHILDREN (84%); SAVE THE CHILDREN (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; PRISONS AND PRISONERS; VIOLENCE; POLICE LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RIOTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (65%); 

PERSON: GANGI, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1993



674 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 24, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Living Desk

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Up for Auction: The Cooking Tips Of a Duchess

BYLINE: By FRANK J. PRIAL

 BODY:
JUST when we thought they'd been totally forgotten, they're back.
Amy and Joey? 
 No. Wallis and Edward.
You remember them, Wallis Warfield Simpson, the Baltimore divorcee, and Edward VIII, the King of England. Also known as the Duke and Duchess of Windsor.
For a time they were the world's most romantic couple. Fifty-seven years ago next month, the English-speaking world huddled around radios to hear Edward, who had just quit the throne, intone in a reedy voice that he could no longer carry on "without the help and support of the woman I love."
She was often characterized as a relentless social climber and he as a rather dim bulb. But to millions of people trapped in the grip of the Depression, people who had nothing, the spectacle of someone who had everything giving it up for a woman was immensely romantic.
Why was he so crazy about her?
Could it have been her cooking?
Don't laugh. On Dec. 10, Sotheby's in New York will offer for sale "My Personal Cookbook" by, yes, the Duchess herself. The manuscript, for that is as far as the project got, is part of a collection of Windsor memorabilia being put up for sale by the auction house. Sotheby's hopes to make some $8,000 on the cookbook alone.
Interested in whipping up a Gateau Egyptian? The recipe is here. A fresh Salade Russe, perhaps? The Duchess will guide you, step by step.
Never mind that Gateau Egyptian is a sponge cake slathered with blackberry jelly, or that Salade Russe is carrots and peas with mayonnaise. How often does one get to eat something dreamed up by a duchess?
The recipes, such as they are, come sandwiched between reminiscences of girlish culinary adventures back in Baltimore and heart-warming glimpses of ducal domesticity in Paris, New York and other Windsor watering holes.
"When we're in Florida," the Duchess confides, "I enjoy lap lunches in the car." There was a supermarket next door to her reducing salon and, she says, "I cannot resist it."
"Regularly," she goes on, "I find myself buying a package of cold meat, salami usually, smoked cheese, biscuits and a cellophane bag of striped peppermint balls, upon which I lunch happily during my ride home."
The Duchess pulled together this culinary potpourri sometime in 1958. It began as a series of articles for The American Weekly, a Sunday newspaper supplement. At one point the Duchess acknowledges that The Weekly's "home economists" tested all her recipes and worked "long and hard" to simplify them.
In many instances, she said, these experts suggested "canned, frozen and bottled products, available in American supermarkets," which could save "time and energy." Just like the stuff she picked up in Delray Beach, Fla.
As all dedicated Windsor watchers will recall, Wallis and Edward kept a home in the Bois de Boulogne in Paris and a country place, the Moulin de la Tuilerie, about two hours southwest of the city at a town called Gif-sur-Yvette. They had a French chef and a kitchen staff, their own gardens and access to the best French markets.
Here is the Duchess of Windsor on that beneficence. "I wonder often," she ruminates, "if American housewives appreciate their good fortune in having so many excellent frozen foods? In France, these foods are few and expensive. Inevitably this must change -- when electric refrigeration becomes more general.
"In our household," she continues, "I have waged a long fight in behalf of frozen foods. When I used to suggest to our cook that he make more use of our freezer, he would protest, 'Why, Madame? I have only to walk six blocks to get something fresh.' "
There are fanatics who travel to France for the butter. Experts can tell the source of a kilo of butter by looking at it. Any respectable Parisian merchant who deals in butter, eggs and cheese will offer 10 or more different types of butter. Yet, the Duchess, apparently inured to France's bounty, was happy to get her butter shipped in from overseas.
"Dearest Anita," writes the Duchess from her country place. "I can't thank you enough for the five tins of butter. Please tell us how much I owe you for it -- I cannot accept it as a present really, otherwise I could never ask you to send us any more."
The Duke involved himself in the project, scratching out a word here, adding one there, occasionally doing minor damage to the Duchess's already shaky grammar.
She wrote: "All new dishes, incidentally, are served first to the Duke and me when we dine alone."
He made it: "All new dishes, incidentally, are tried out first by the Duke and I when we dine alone."
But he was not a dedicated food person, preferring more intellectual pursuits. "I have a collection of cookbooks," she discloses, "which I read as avidly as the Duke, who will never shake the sand out of his shoes, reads the National Geographic."
It would appear that the worldly Mrs. Simpson was eager to show the Prince, whom she called David, her domestic side early on. Preparing to write her articles, she came across "a folder of recipes tied together with a bit of pink cord, the cover of which was marked 'Salads. Nov. 1934.' "
"This," she writes, "I had fixed, at the Duke's request, for his cook at the Fort, his country house at Sunningdale. The cook, I suspect, was not too pleased at a woman 'interfering.' But I can still see David's warm smile."
Turning philosophical -- or perhaps just planning ahead -- she muses, "It is not a simple matter for any bachelor to run a house, even though he be a Prince with a staff to serve him."
Edward was the Prince of Wales when they met. He became Edward VIII on the death of his father, George V, and Duke of Windsor after his abdication.
In later years, the ducal pair often gave buffet suppers. "The buffet," she wrote, "is the most fun party."
A typical Windsor buffet included a cold lobster mousse with Sauce Liberal, hot curried eggs, the old dependable Salade Russe and the tricky Gateau Egyptian.
The Sauce Liberal may have had something to do with the fun.
The Duchess's recipe:
"Mix into good mayonnaise enough catsup to colour the mayonnaise a pale pink. Add Worcestershire sauce, lemon juice and heavy fresh cream to taste.
"Lastly, add a good quantity of gin."
 
Three Recipes Fit for a King
 Following are three recipes, exactly as written, from "My Personal Cookbook," by the Duchess of Windsor.
 
 Sole Demi-Deuil
 (Sole in Half Mourning)
Poach fillets of sole in white wine with juice of lemon.
Place in oven for 10 minutes in a Pyrex dish.
Make a cream sauce with: 750 grams of butter, 50 grams flour, 1/4 liter milk, 1/4 liter heavy cream, 1 juice of lemon, 1 yolk of egg and some of the sole bouillon.
Place the fillets of sole on a long dish, cover with cream sauce, and recover with caviar the surface. Place around the fillets tartelettes of caviar. Serve very hot.
 
Avocado Pears Tahiti
Cut the avocados in half, allowing one half to a person.
Remove pit.
Fill center with rum slightly flavored with brown sugar.
Serve on ice.
 
 Gateau Egyptian
Make a light sponge cake that is fairly deep.
Scoop out the center.
Cover the outside of the cake with cold blackberry jelly. It is sometimes advisable to melt the jelly first so it will spread smoothly.
Fill the center with whipped cream flavored subtly with vanilla.
When ready to serve, pour hot blackberry jelly over the whole.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Duke and Duchess of Windsor on their honeymoon, in a photograph from their personal album. (pg. C1); The Duke and Duchess of Windsor, at right, on their honeymoon at the Schloss Wasserleonburg, near Vienna. Their friends Fern and Charles Bedaux are at left. (Charles Bedaux)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); ENGLAND (73%); FRANCE (53%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (53%); 

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S;

ORGANIZATION: SOTHEBY'S;

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); ENGLAND (73%); FRANCE (53%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); PARIS, FRANCE (53%); 

SUBJECT: COOKING AND COOKBOOKS; AUCTIONS; BRITISH MONARCHS (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (88%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (87%); BRITISH NOBILITY & GENTRY (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); 

PERSON: WINDSOR, DUCHESS OF (1896-1986); PRIAL, FRANK J; MICHAEL MCMAHON (85%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1993



675 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Business Digest

 BODY:

Companies
Many legal obstacles that Paramount had hoped would stop QVC's hostile takeover bid were swept away by a Delaware court. The ruling was a blow to Viacom, which had agreed to a friendly merger with Paramount. [Page A1.] The ruling could help shareholders by forcing companies to sell to the highest bidder. [D6.] 
 Philip Morris and NCR will cut payrolls by a total of as many as 21,500 workers. The moves underscore corporate America's determination to remain competitive through retrenchment. [D1.]
NCR is struggling with shrinking profit margins and sluggishness in Europe and Japan. [D17.] Troubles with falling cigarette prices may have prompted Philip Morris's restructuring. [D17.]
United Airlines' pilots and machinists unions are resuming efforts to gain control of the carrier, saying United executives had asked for a meeting to be attended by Felix G. Rohatyn. [D1.]
The major airlines asked the Clinton Administration to prevent Los Angeles International Airport from banning their aircraft because they refused to pay higher landing fees. [A1.]
Merry-Go-Round will take a noncash charge against earnings for inventory markdowns and the closing of 30 stores. [D5.]
Green Point Savings was ordered to stop asking depositors who voted against its stock offering to change their votes. [D5.]
Sears was accused of illegally requiring employees who accepted early retirement to waive age-discrimination claims. [D5.]
The American Stock Exchange named a lawyer, Lisa S. Y. Sun, director of its newly created Asia division. [D5.]
EMI will manage Michael Jackson's 6,000-title music catalogue. Jackson will receive $70 million. [D6.]
 
he Economy
Many economists believe the U.S. has entered a prolonged era of low interest rates thanks to forces ranging from an inflation-fighting Federal Reserve to a slow-growing world economy. [D1.]
Durable goods orders surged 2 percent in October, to a record level. It was the third consecutive rise for orders for big-ticket items and pointed to further economic expansion. [D1.]
With the holiday retail season about to begin, there is less consensus than in the past about how profitable it will be. [D1.]
November, suggesting stronger sales early next year. [D5.]
Centrust's chairman David L. Paul was convicted of misusing company funds while the savings and loan was failing. [D9.]
 
International
OPEC will not reduce oil production, gambling instead that demand will increase this winter and allow crude oil prices to recover from the sharp drop of the last few months. [D2.]
The European trade commissioner raised the prospect of movement on stalled world trade talks. [D2.]
China plans to turn over ownership of 100 state-owned factories to their managers in a sweeping capitalist experiment. [A7.]
The Administration is trying to mend fences with Europe after weeks of focusing on trade with Asia and Latin America. [A8.]
 
Markets
Stocks closed higher amid favorable economic news and higher bond prices. The Dow gained 13.41 points. [D6.] Short interest in Nasdaq stocks rose to a record in the latest month. [D18.]
Treasury bond prices rose for the second consecutive day. The 30-year bond yield fell to 6.30 percent from 6.31 percent. [D13.]
Lumber futures soared the daily limit as wholesalers locked in scarce supplies. [D16.] The dollar was mixed. [D16.]
 
Today's Column
Promises that a 4-day, 33-hour workweek will bring economic and social improvements to Europe at no cost may be based more on optimism than evidence. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (55%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: VIACOM INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%); GREEN POINT SAVINGS BANK (55%); NYSE MKT LLC (54%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (54%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (54%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS AIRLINES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); NONSTORE RETAILERS (89%); TOBACCO MFG (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); FACTORY ORDERS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (86%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (78%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); MERGERS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (76%); AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (76%); CARTELS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); DISCRIMINATION (73%); DURABLE GOODS (72%); AIRPORT OPERATION (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); EARLY RETIREMENT (71%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); AIRPORTS (69%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (69%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (66%); OIL EXTRACTION (64%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (63%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL JACKSON (54%); MICHAEL JACKSON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1993



676 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: 2 Large Companies Make Cuts

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Two blue-chip American corporations -- Philip Morris, the tobacco and food company, and NCR, the computer unit of A.T.& T. -- announced yesterday that they planned to cut their payrolls by a total of as many as 21,500 workers, or as much as 8 percent at Philip Morris and 15 percent at NCR.
To be sure, the two cutback announcements are separate cases, but both underscore corporate America's determination to remain competitive through retrenchment, despite a gradually improving economy. 
 Philip Morris Companies Inc. is under pressure to pare back as sales from its old-line business of cigarettes erode in the face of health concerns and changing life styles. Company officials announced a plan yesterday to eliminate 14,000 jobs in the next three years. [Page D17.]
The NCR Corporation is struggling to reduce costs as it moves to advanced microchip technology. NCR officials said yesterday that an early retirement program would be offered to 25,000 employees, or nearly half the company's work force, to achieve a cut of 7,500 jobs. [Page D17.]
 
Goal of Increased Productivity
 Yet the rationale behind the moves at Philip Morris and NCR is similar in key respects. Both companies are making the cuts in the name of streamlining, faster decision-making and increased productivity -- doing the work with fewer employees. And the job losses will be across-the-board, as likely to hit white-collar management staff as blue-collar factory workers.
"These are strategic or structural cutbacks, and not really related to the economy," said Eric Greenberg, director of management studies at the American Management Assocation, a management-education organization. "And that's why these cutbacks are continuing even though the economy is getting stronger."
Indeed, the seemingly relentless wave of big-company cutbacks is likely to continue. "I don't see that we're at the end of this yet," Robert B. Reich, the Labor Secretary, said. "It's a fact of economic life."
 
Much Attrition Inevitable
 In an interview, Mr. Reich said that despite an economy that has added 1.4 million jobs since the start of the year, much attrition of employment at large companies was inevitable.
Two forces prompting the trend, Mr. Reich said, are increased global competition and the advance of computer technology, which has reduced the need for layers of middle management in large corporations because much of their role was gathering, analyzing and dispersing information -- tasks made easier and less labor-intensive by personal computers.
As a third reason for cutbacks, Mr. Reich cited increased pressure on corporate boards by big institutional investors. In the last two years, the big investment funds, like employee pension funds, have prodded several poorly performing companies to make changes in their top management, including those at General Motors and I.B.M.
"Chief executives are under the gun today more than ever before to eke out greater profits and cutting the payroll is the easiest way for an executive to try to increase short-term profits," Mr. Reich said.
 
Job Creation 'A Low Priority'
 Even within the business community, there are critics of such work force cutbacks. Corporate America's penchant for slicing payrolls, they say, is a management fad that began logically enough but has been carried to extremes, like the takeover frenzy of the 1980's.
"Job creation is being given a low priority by a lot of corporate executives today," said Robert Tomasko of Arthur D. Little Inc., a management consulting firm. "Now what you're applauded for is doing work with fewer people."
While lifting productivity should be management's goal, Mr. Tomasko and other analysts caution that cutting the payroll can backfire, by lowering employee morale. The intent of most so-called downsizing or re-engineering programs is to help reduce bureaucracy and foster a more entrepreneurial environment. But a work force fearful of the next round of layoffs, analysts warn, is not apt to take risks or become more creative.
"Fear is not the handmaiden of innovation," Mr. Reich said.
 
Shrinkage at Big Corporations
 The payroll shrinkage at big companies is a trend that has been underway for years. Employment at the Fortune 500 industrial companies reached a peak of 16.3 million people in 1979 and has since declined steadily, to 11.8 million last year.
Employment growth has come instead from small companies, whose additions to the nation's work force typically come in small increments of a few at a time, little noticed but significant in the aggregate.
"The jobs that are created get a lot more attention than the cutbacks," Steven Davis, an economist at the University of Chicago's graduate school of business, said. "Maybe our economy doesn't adjust to these cutbacks as well as we'd like, but the American economy is generating new jobs all the time and it does adjust."
Still, the big-company cuts have contributed to the numbers of people, often from 35 years old to 50, who are having difficulty finding jobs. Mr. Reich noted that the number of people permanently laid off has climbed since 1986 to 2.2 million, and the number of people unemployed for six months or more is higher now than in late 1991, when the economy started to come out of recession.
"These cutbacks at big companies have clearly added to our endemic problem of structural unemployment," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (94%); PMI (SWX) (92%); PM (PAR) (92%); PM (NYSE) (92%); NCR (NYSE) (86%); GM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (94%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (86%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (86%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: PHILIP MORRIS COS INC; NCR CORP ALTRIA GROUP INC (94%); PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC (92%); NCR CORP (86%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHILIP MORRIS COS INC; NCR CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; FORECASTS; LAYOFFS (LABOR); DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS LAYOFFS (90%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (90%); TOBACCO MFG (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); EARLY RETIREMENT (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); TRENDS (74%); COMPUTER CHIPS (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTERVIEWS (68%); PERSONAL FINANCE (67%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE; REICH, ROBERT B (SEC) MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1993



677 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: Cool, Astute Leader Takes Flight Union to Victory

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, Nov. 24

 BODY:
As Denise C. Hedges steered into the parking lot of a hotel where the press anxiously awaited her, the engine of her corroded 1985 Renault died. As president of the 21,000-member union of American Airlines flight attendants, she had a news conference beginning in minutes.
But there was no panic, no curses, no pounding on the steering wheel. "Would you push me into that parking space?" Mrs. Hedges asked her two passengers, as calmly as if she had been following the flight attendants training manual. Then she went on to a meeting with the press that came off as smoothly as beverage service in first class. 
 Whether it's a showdown with Robert L. Crandall of American Airlines, the industry's toughest executive, or any other crisis, more than two patient decades of experience as a flight attendant have taught Mrs. Hedges how to respond.
In Denise Hedges, organized labor has a new face very different from that of the traditional, smokestack union boss. The service economy places most of its servants beyond the orbit of the shrinking factory unions. No wonder that, as labor leaders call to congratulate Mrs. Hedges, many also ask her advice.
 
Some Good News
 "They demonstrated that there is a payoff to organizing," said Frank H. Joyce, a spokesman for the United Auto Workers. "All the news is not bad."
Once President Clinton brokered an agreement between striking attendants and American Airlines management on Monday to submit their dispute to arbitration, Mrs. Hedges found that preparing for further talks and getting her members back to work after their five-day walkout left little time to give lessons to other unions. Today, she met with Mr. Crandall, the airline's chairman, and the leaders of the airline's other unions, joined them in issuing a letter urging calm and then rushed to catch a flight home to see her husband and three children in Colorado Springs, Colo., for the first time in about a month.
But once Mrs. Hedges, 46, catches her breath, she is likely to have pointers like these:
First, keep the public on your side.
When Ronald Reagan fired the striking air traffic controllers in 1981, many travelers cheered his determination to keep the airports running. When the machinists pursued their strike against Frank Lorenzo's Eastern Airlines in 1989, few travelers mourned the airline's eventual demise.
But Mrs. Hedges never made her union's strike a personal vendetta against Mr. Crandall. Even off the record, her language is no stronger than for, say, someone back in 28F who refuses to restore his tray table to its full upright position.
Publicly, Mr. Crandall was left griping about the airline's high costs while union members pointed to grueling schedules and an average pay of $23,000. Few travelers were outraged at the flight attendants for walking off the job at the airline's busiest time of year; instead, more seemed to vent their anger at the airline itself.
 
No Bubbleheads
 Flight attendants, you see, are trained to be nice. No end of novels and films portray them as bubble heads, but many, including Mrs. Hedges, have college degrees (Southern Methodist University, anthropology). And in any popularity contest, who wouldn't put flight attendants way ahead of airline executives and labor lawyers?
Second, know your members.
Mrs. Hedges became president of a badly divided Association of Professional Flight Attendants in April 1992 on a platform of ending the power struggles among union factions whose quarrels were often as much personal as substantive. Then she rallied her members for a first-ever strike -- which threatened to cost them their jobs -- by talking their issues: pay, scheduling, staffing and health benefits.
"She understands flight attendants," said Alan Fahringer, a member of her negotiating team. "They are people pleasers. They like to fix things. They don't like to argue. Flight attendants don't really want to be mad at their boss."
 
Lack of Faith
 Third, let management underestimate you.
American Airlines did not begin to train replacements until Monday, five days into the strike. "They felt we couldn't pull a strike off," Mrs. Hedges said. "They thought the organization wasn't solidified."
Ninety percent to 95 percent of American's flight attendants stayed off the job, the union said. The airline said the strike cost it $10 million to $15 million a day. Some planes, without cabin attendants, flew empty; other flights were simply canceled.
Jane G. Allen, American's chief negotiator, said that 30 percent of the attendants showed up, but added, "It was more than American predicted." She said the company held back from training replacements to avoid antagonizing the attendants and other unions, but now has some regrets.
"We felt our reward for acting in good faith was a strike of a level that inconvenienced our customers," she said. "It certainly would have been better for our customers if we'd had thousands of replacements on the property."
 
Enhanced Rapport
 Ms. Allen said that facing another woman across the negotiating table improved rapport, "but it certainly didn't help on the issues."
And finally, make new friends, especially in Washington.
Mrs. Hedges and her aides have spent months quietly arguing their cause, sometimes a step ahead of American's lobbyists. By the time the President called her on Monday, she knew that he supported her on the need for binding arbitration. Mr. Crandall, American's chairman, has dined at the White House, but this was a Democratic Administration, and one that had just left its labor allies smarting in defeat on the North American Free Trade Agreement.
The only public signs of tension that Mrs. Hedges permits herself are her Marlboro Lights, and these she tries to avoid before the cameras.
 
Family Help
 Her husband and three children have also helped ease the strain, and sometimes offered counsel. After her union's board and members had voted to let her call a strike, she hesitated, then phoned her 17-year-old daughter, Dawn. "The members have put their faith in you," her daughter told her. "You're not in it alone.
In her 23 years as an American flight attendant, Mrs. Hedges has held several union offices; some have restricted her flying time. But she had to resume flying full-time, signing up for as much extra duty as she could manage, when her husband, a computer-software engineer in the defense industry, suffered a spell of unemployment. She continued flying until March 1992, the month before she became president at a salary of $48,000.
She met her husband, Dave, in Stamford, Conn., where she grew up and returned, teaching as a substitute to supplement her flight attendant pay. When she began working for American nearly a quarter-century ago, pregnancy, marriage or a 32d birthday meant mandatory retirement.
Now a flight attendant can make a career of it, Mrs. Hedges said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Denise C. Hedges, left, president of the American Airlines flight attendants' union, in the office of the Association of Professional Flight Attendants yesterday in Dallas. She greeted Janet Wallace, a flight attendant, after meeting with the leaders of the airline's other unions. (Mark Graham for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RNO (PAR) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (51%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); COLORADO, USA (79%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; FLIGHT ATTENDANTS; STRIKES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION AIRLINES (91%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (91%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); STRIKES (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); AIRPORTS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (72%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R; HEDGES, DENISE RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1993



678 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: S. C. Tsiang, an Economist, 75; Helped Guide Taiwan's Economy

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR

 BODY:
S. C. Tsiang, an emeritus professor of economics at Cornell University and a principal architect of Taiwan's economic miracle died on Oct. 21 in Chicago. He was 75
He had suffered a series of strokes, his family said. 
 Sho-chieh Tsiang, a naturalized American citizen, was born to a wealthy diplomatic family in Shanghai in 1918.
He studied economics at the London School of Economics in World War II and returned to China briefly to teach and work in the Chinese Central Bank. When the Communists came to power in 1949, Professor Tsiang fled to the United States, where he joined the International Monetary Fund.
 
Persuaded Taiwan on Exports
 He helped shape the modern theory of how open economies work in a global framework. In the 1960's, he was a professor of economics at the University of Rochester. In 1969, he joined the faculty at Cornell and remained there until retiring in 1985. He was a pioneer in the theory of money flows and exchange-rate markets.
But his great life's work lay in persuading the Taiwan Government in the 1960's and 1970's to adopt a free-market export-led strategy that eventually helped turned Taiwan into one the world's miracle economies.
In the 1960's, when trade protection and self-sufficiency were the vogue in the developing world, Professor Tsiang promoted reliance on foreign trade. And at a time when many economists thought that governments in poor nations had to weild a heavy hand, Professor Tsiang favored low taxes and argued that markets should determine interest and exchange rates -- precisely what economists advocate in Eastern Europe today.
"My father was an iconoclast," said his daughter Grace Tsiang, an economist at the University of Chicago. "He was advocating policies contrary to the Keynesian consensus of the time."
Fond of quoting Mencius and other Chinese philosophers, Professor Tsiang's favorite parable -- which he used to express his laissez-faire views of economic development -- was the story of the impatient farmer who was so determined to make his crops grow that he tugged and tugged on his sprouts until he pulled them out of the ground and killed them. The good farmer, by contrast, cultivated his crops and then let them alone to grow.
 
Led Taipei Institute
 After retiring from Cornell, Professor Tsiang served as president of the independent Chung-Hwa Institute for Economic Research in Taipei until becoming ill about a year ago.
Robert Lucas, an economist at the University of Chicago, said: "He was an extremely soft-spoken, scholarly man, the last person in the world you'd think of arguing with government officials. But he was forceful in a quiet way. He had a lot of inner confidence."
Professor Tsiang is survived by his wife, Hsi-tsin Tsiang, three daughters, Katherine Mino, Christina Shorr and Grace Tsiang, and five grandchildren. A memorial service was held in Taipei on Nov. 16.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (96%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%); 

STATE: EAST CHINA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); 

CITY: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (92%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL BANK (57%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (91%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (91%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN (96%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%); EAST CHINA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (92%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); INTEREST RATES (67%); EXCHANGE RATES (67%); WORLD WAR II (56%); 

PERSON: TSIANG, SHO-CHIEH (PROF); NASAR, SYLVIA

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1993



679 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Councilman's Mayoral Victory in Atlanta Is a Break With the Past

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Nov. 24

 BODY:
City Councilman Bill Campbell won the runoff election for Atlanta mayor on Tuesday, swamping his opponent and becoming the first black mayor in 20 years with neither deep roots in the city's civil rights community nor celebrity status drawn from it.
Mr. Campbell, a 40-year-old lawyer, defeated Michael L. Lomax, the former chairman of the Fulton County Commission, by 48,600 votes to 18,155, or 73 percent to 27 percent. Mr. Campbell had come within 800 votes of winning outright in the Nov. 2 general election. 
Even though Mr. Campbell never trailed in polling before the general election or runoff, the gap between him and Mr. Lomax in the final tally was wider than most observers had expected. Some political analysts attributed the large margin more to the negative public image of Mr. Lomax, who is also black, than to the positive image of Mr. Campbell.
Mr. Lomax, a former English professor and the administrator of a chain of funeral homes, said Tuesday night that his campaign had been hurt by his unfair image as a tax raiser. As chairman of the county that includes much of the city of Atlanta, Mr. Lomax in 1991 oversaw a property reassessment that sent some tax bills soaring, but the reassessment was required by law.
 
Lamenting Tax Image
 "I could not get away from that issue," Mr. Lomax told supporters, "and it provided a noise level which I could never break through."
William H. Boone, a professor of political science at Clark Atlanta University, said many black voters consider Mr. Lomax aloof. They also remain angry at him for his short-lived, negative campaign against Mayor Maynard H. Jackson in 1989, Professor Boone said. Blacks make up 68 percent of the city's voters.
Referring to the wide margin of victory, Mr. Campbell said at a victory celebration on Tuesday night, "I never would have imagined that we would have the mandate that we have tonight." He said he was not sure he could fill the shoes of predecessors like former Mayor Andrew Young and Mayor Jackson, who did not seek another term.
"But if I can make Atlanta a safer city," Mr. Campbell added, "if I can improve the schools, provide better economic development, then people may say I've been a good mayor as well."
During the campaign, Mr. Campbell hammered home a message of reducing crime, holding the line on taxes and making government more efficient. At the same time, he skillfully countered attacks from Mr. Lomax, who tried to link him to corruption at the city's airport. A council member and a former council member have been indicted and a businessman has been convicted in a scheme involving kickbacks from vendors at the airport.
After his defeat, Mr. Lomax's political future is in doubt after 14 years in public life, but supporters like State Representative Tyrone Brooks predicted that he would return to public life.
Professor Boone said Mr. Campbell, who had represented a downtown council district since 1981, now faced the daunting task of winning the confidence of the city's largely white business establishment. Mr. Campbell, unlike Mr. Lomax, is largely an unknown to the business leaders.
The fact that Mayor Jackson endorsed Mr. Campbell and was among his most vigorous supporters would help some, Professor Boone said, who added, "But in large measure he will have to show them on his own on such things as administration of the troubled airport, keeping his promise not to raise taxes, cutting crime and addressing the city's infrastructure problems."
Alan Secrest, a political consultant and pollster who worked for the Campbell campaign, noted that the victory was one that drew from racially and economically diverse groups in the city and as such would have a unifying effect. That, he said, "gives Bill Campbell the wind at his back" as he prepares to take office on Jan. 3.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Campbell, center, being congratulated by supporters on Tuesday night after winning the runoff election for Mayor of Atlanta. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ATLANTA (GA) UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; BLACKS (IN US) CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); COUNTIES (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (78%); POLITICS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BRIBERY (77%); LAWYERS (74%); CELEBRITIES (73%); CORRUPTION (63%); INDICTMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD; CAMPBELL, BILL (COUNCILMAN); LOMAX, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1993



680 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Now Turns to Soothing the Europeans

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 24

 BODY:
After weeks of declaring that the United States would increase its attention to the fast-growing markets of Asia and Latin America, the Clinton Administration is trying to mend fences with Europe.
In what could be viewed as the diplomatic equivalent of sending roses after a spat, Secretary of State Warren Christopher invited a group of European journalists in for interviews on Monday in which he stressed the crucial role Europe still has in American foreign policy. Though he did not retreat from earlier statements that Washington is at times too focused on Europe, Mr. Christopher, sounding like the lawyer he is, said he did not mean to "derogate" Europe. 
 Europe, Mr. Christopher told the reporters, "remains at the center of our concerns and our alliances."
The invitations to the eight journalists were made last week even as President Clinton and Mr. Christopher attended a meeting in Seattle of leaders of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum and stressed that America's most important trade ties were across the Pacific, not the Atlantic.
Even before the Pacific summit meeting, Mr. Christopher had suggested in an interview that Europe's importance in world affairs was diminishing and that Washington had been too "Eurocentric" in its foreign policy. "Western Europe is no longer the dominant power in the world," Mr. Christopher said in an interview last month.
Mr. Christopher's comments caused a storm across the Atlantic -- at least if headlines are any guide. And while unapologetic about them on Monday, he tried to soothe ruffled feathers, reminding the journalists that Mr. Clinton is due to visit Europe at least three times in the first seven months of 1994.
"I wouldn't exactly call it a charm offensive, but it was an attempt at reassurance," said Jurek Martin, the Washington bureau chief of The Financial Times of London, who attended the interview session for newspaper and magazine reporters.
"For months they've been saying that Europe is almost irrelevant," said another reporter. "That message has been received so much in Europe that it has come to the point that it is damaging their policy. I guess they figured it's time to do some kind of gesture."
The gesture comes a week before Mr. Christopher is to travel to Brussels for the semiannual meeting of the North Atlantic Council, the political arm of NATO, and to Rome for the meeting of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. The interviews marked the first time that either the President or Mr. Christopher had sat down for an extended session with reporters from Europe.
The journalists said the Secretary had also gone out of his way to be diplomatic. He declined, for instance, to criticize Germany for reportedly shipping nuclear technology to Iran. And despite the differences with France over world trade talks in Geneva, he told the reporter from Le Figaro that America's relationship with France is "so much broader" than disagreements over trade.
 
Europeans Deny Any Rift
 For their part, European diplomats are eager to knock down any idea of a rift running across the Atlantic or of shrinkage in Europe's economic importance to America. A Western European diplomat said that despite the statements about how much more trade moves across the Pacific than across the Atlantic, if one removes Canada from the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, the figures are comparable. And as an Administration official said, the United States is running a modest trade surplus with Western Europe.
A diplomat said direct American investment in Europe is $239 billion. Direct United States investment in Asia Pacific forum countries -- again, once Canada is removed -- is $78 billion.
Still, in his talk with the European journalists, Mr. Christopher reiterated that the Administration sees the potential growth in American trade as coming from Asia and not Western Europe. "The primacy of opportunity for the United States in Asia is a statement of fact," Mr. Christopher said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (81%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); FRANCE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); BELGIUM (79%); GERMANY (78%); WESTERN EUROPE (78%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%); 

CITY: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (81%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (56%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (56%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); FRANCE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); BELGIUM (79%); GERMANY (78%); WESTERN EUROPE (78%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EUROPE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); WRITERS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); TRENDS (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CHRISTOPHER, WARREN M (SEC) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1993



681 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: Mubarak and King Hussein End a Chilly Standoff

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CAIRO, Nov 24

 BODY:
President Hosni Mubarak met officially with King Hussein of Jordan today, formally ending a three-year rift that began when the King refused to support the coalition effort to drive Iraqi occupiers out of Kuwait.
"I am happy to be here to visit Egypt and return as we were so we can discuss the important issues in this delicate period," King Hussein told reporters after the meeting. 
 The visit, the first official meeting between the King and the President since the days immediately after the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in August 1990, was held to discuss the peace talks with Israel. But its significance stemmed from the fact that the two pro-Western leaders once again agreed to work together on regional issues.
Senior Egyptian officials said Mr. Mubarak is working behind the scenes to bring a reconciliation between the Jordanian and King Fahd of Saudi Arabia, who has demanded an apology from King Hussein for his pro-Iraqi stance during the Persian Gulf war.
Asked if his meeting meant that normal relations had been resumed between Jordan and Egypt, King Hussein said, "Yes, this is my feeling."
 
'There Is No Problem'
 The President agreed. "There is no problem as long as there are visits and contacts," he said. "I think normal relations are necessary. Our contacts have never been cut and coordination continued. As you remember, the Egyptian Foreign Minister visited Jordan several times and there is no problem."
The meeting was one more step toward Jordan's readmittance into the camp of pro-western Arab states. Jordan, like Egypt, is battling to contain Islamic fundamentalism. Amman also desperately needs backing by Western nations like the United States, which briefly suspended economic aid to Jordan following the gulf war.
The resumption of good relations with Egypt may further the King's push to build bridges with the gulf states, which still feel betrayed by Jordan's support of Iraq in the 1991 war.
Saudi Arabia, which once gave Jordan $500 million a year in aid, is still withholding aid and has closed its markets to Jordanian produce, and Kuwait has rebuffed all efforts to open negotiations with King Hussein.
 
'Saudis Willing to Listen'
 "The Saudis are at least willing to listen," said a Western diplomat who follows the negotiations. "But for the Kuwaitis it is personal. They have written off the King."
The Egyptian and Jordanian leaders shifted uncomfortably when they first sat for photographers on either end of a couch in the presidential palace. But after the talks they appeared more relaxed. The King left for Amman immediately after the meeting.
In August 1991 the Jordanian Government issued a paper explaining its role in the war. The paper excoriated Mr. Mubarak for leading the Arab coalition that sent drove the Iraqis from Kuwait, saying he had sabotaged a peaceful solution to the crisis. The accusations triggered angry retorts between the two governments.
Relations began to thaw a year ago when the King visited Cairo after an earthquake and briefly met the President informally. The King also backed away from his previous support for President Saddam Hussein of Iraq and issued a statement calling on Iraqis to establish a democracy.
As the peace talks between Israel, the Palestinians and the Arab states gained momentum, Mr. Mubarak and King Hussein began to consult by telephone, aides said. The phone contacts led to today's meeting.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%); 

COUNTRY: JORDAN (96%); EGYPT (96%); IRAQ (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); KUWAIT (94%); ISRAEL (92%); GULF STATES (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: AMMAN, JORDAN (92%); CAIRO, EGYPT (78%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; JORDAN; ISRAEL; IRAQ; KUWAIT JORDAN (96%); EGYPT (96%); IRAQ (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); KUWAIT (94%); ISRAEL (92%); GULF STATES (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AMMAN, JORDAN (92%); CAIRO, EGYPT (78%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EGYPT-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-JORDAN TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DESERT STORM (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); FUNDAMENTALISM (64%); RELIGION (63%); 

PERSON: HEDGES, CHRIS; MUBARAK, HOSNI (PRES); HUSSEIN I (KING OF HASHEMITE JORDAN) HOSNI MUBARAK (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1993



682 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: U.N. to Expand Street Patrols in Mogadishu

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOGADISHU, Somalia, Nov. 24

 BODY:
With bandit attacks on civilians becoming more frequent, United Nations military officials have agreed to put more soldiers on the streets to protect their workers despite misgivings that their presence might provoke confrontations with Somali militiamen.
Officials from the political and military wings of the United Nations in Somalia agreed today that, whenever available, armoured personnel carriers should escort civilian personnel. 
 "It's been discussed at high levels and decided that we need more military helping civilians," said Jonathan T. Howe, the United Nations special representative to Somalia.
The decision was the first acknowledgement that the capital has become increasingly treacherous since soldiers have stopped patrolling. At the urging of the United States, United Nations forces have adopted a lower profile while efforts to calm and rebuild the city through diplomacy are under way.
While a cease-fire between United Nations forces and the militia of Mohammed Farah Aidid has brought greater security for peacekeepers, civilians are increasingly plagued by bandit attacks.
On Tuesday an American with the United Nations aid mission was shot and wounded when her unmarked vehicle was set upon on the road to United Nations headquarters. Two weeks ago an American United Nations worker, Kai Lincoln, was shot and killed by bandits trying to steal his car.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SOMALIA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOMALIA SOMALIA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (91%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE ARMED FORCES (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (73%); POLITICS (72%); VEHICLE THEFT (65%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1993



683 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Lima Journal;
Dictator? President? Or General Manager of Peru?

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru, Nov. 24

 BODY:
Pen and paper at the ready, Peru's mathematician-turned-President likes to make quick calculations. For an American visitor Tuesday night, he calculated that Peru's toll of 22,000 dead in 13 years of civil strife equals 250,000 dead in the United States.
"I am sure that with so many dead in your country, people would have demanded emergency measures," said President Alberto K. Fujimori, who seized emergency powers and shut down courts and Congress last year in the name of fighting Peru's Maoist guerrillas. 
 "You have to live in this mess of problems to understand," he said. "It is harder to understand in Washington than in Ayacucho," the cradle of the Shining Path guerrilla movement.
Twenty months after the "Fuji coup," Peru has a new Congress, a new Constitution and a monthly inflation rate that is lower than Chile's. Guerrilla violence has sharply declined, and Abimael Guzman, the Shining Path leader, is in a jail cell pleading for peace talks
Peru's 55-year-old President, now one of Latin America's most popular -- and most criticized -- politicians, said he had no regrets.

 
Here Comes Charm
"There is no question about the legitimacy of this Government," said Mr. Fujimori, who won a close referendum vote last month on his new Constitution. It was the third round of voting in the country since the April 1992 coup, a fact that Mr. Fujimori likes to cite when critics describe Peru as a dictatorship.
Although American businessmen are now packing Lima hotels to explore investment opportunities, some officials in Washington are reluctant to forgive a President who dissolves a Congress.
To bridge the gap, Peru's President has dusted off the American English he learned 20 years ago as a graduate student in mathematics in Wisconsin and has opened a campaign to charm skeptics and detractors.
Just last week, the President said in an interview in the Presidential Palace, he took Lewis Preston, president of the World Bank, by helicopter to a Quechua Indian town that had been controlled by guerrillas until last year.
"We just went in without any soldiers," he said with a chuckle. "We can go a lot of places now without security."
Now Mr. Preston is backing World Bank loans for a two-year, $500 million public works spending program. Half the money is to be channeled to impoverished Andean highland areas like Ayacucho.

 
Next Objective: U.S. Congress

President Fujimori's next target is a delegation of American Congressmen expected to come here in January. English-language videotapes extolling the achievements of Mr. Fujimori's two-year-old Government are stacked on a side table in his office.
Human rights groups charge that Peru's human rights record has been abysmal since Mr. Fujimori abolished procedural safeguards in the 1992 coup. The Peruvian military is suspected in mysterious "disappearances" in several towns and villages; accused prisoners are often held incommunicado.
"I am a very patient man," said the President, when asked about American congressional objections to human rights violations here. "With the Clinton Administration, we do not have many misunderstandings."
The trail to Mr. Fujimori's office leads down drafty, semi-lit corridors that testify to Peru's political and cultural tensions and diversity -- Spanish colonial carriages gathering dust in a corner; a neo-Versailles "Golden Room" decorated in the 1930's; a modern mural depicting ancient Indians sacrificing captives.
Departing from the pomp and flourish of his predecessors, , Mr. Fujimori received his visitors at the head of a board room table in a spare office, without any advisers present.
Dressed in a dark blue business suit, the 55-year-old President described himself as the country's "general manager."
"The person who manages the state is me," said Mr. Fujimori, when asked if he was "a loner." Two of his goals are to be re-elected in 1995 and to steer Peru into the North American Free Trade Agreement in the late 1990's.
"I make 50 telephone calls a day," he said, adding that he detests cabinet meetings and state dinners.
Two hours of free-ranging conversation were interrupted only by telephone calls from his daughter, who needed help with her school homework in an adjoining office.
But Mr. Fujimori seemed less relaxed when prodded about his Government's progress in investigating the July 1992 slayings of nine students and a professor from Cantuta University in Lima who were suspected of being members of the Shining Path.
Human rights campaigners charge that an army commando unit carried out the slayings under the orders of Mr. Fujimori's national security adviser, Vladimir Montesinos.
"Cantuta will be cleared up," Mr. Fujimori said tersely. He said that some soldiers had been arrested, including an army major, Martin Rivas.

 
Authoritarian, and Proud of It
The President seems nonetheless to take pride in his reputation as an authoritarian.
During the talk, he leafed through the text of an interview with him published this month in a Brazilian news weekly, Istoe. The headline read: "For President Fujimori, Other Latin American Countries Will Follow Peru's Example -- and Traditional Democracies Will End Up in the Garbage Heap."
"Even if the media give the news in a way that is not positive, I feel that people are very sympathetic to Peru's Government," said Mr. Fujimori, who has visited Bolivia, Brazil, Chile and Paraguay since July. "I sense this in several South American countries."
Informed that 43 percent of the respondents in a recent Brazilian opinion survey said that democracy was not "fundamental," Mr. Fujimori replied, "In countries with political and social instability, where people are tired of manipulation by politicians, they look at Fujimori as a man who broke the establishment with one blow."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "There is no question about the legitimacy of this Government," said President Alberto K. Fujimori of Peru. (Vera Lentz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PERU (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CHILE (79%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SHINING PATH (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHINING PATH (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PERU PERU (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CHILE (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ELECTIONS; REFERENDUMS; CONSTITUTIONS REFERENDUMS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MATHEMATICS (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); PEACE PROCESS (54%); INFLATION (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; FUJIMORI, ALBERTO K (PRES)

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1993



684 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1372 words

HEADLINE: When Security Becomes a Struggle;
Demand Is Acute as Neediest Cases Fund Begins 82d Appeal

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

 BODY:
A year ago, Anthony G. Brown and his son, Charles, shared a spacious two-bedroom apartment with a terrace on the top floor of a brownstone in the North Bronx. The $700-a-month rent was comfortably within Mr. Brown's reach as a presentations specialist, a clerical job at the brokerage firm of Shearson Lehman Brothers, where he had worked for two years.
Then came a corporate downsizing and another dip in the Northeast's relentless recession, leading to a pink slip for Mr. Brown in November 1992. Regular income gave way to spotty checks from temporary jobs. Within months, the roomy apartment was a memory, replaced by four rooms in public housing. 
 By the end of April, Mr. Brown learned that he and his son would lose even their modest rooms unless they came up with $270 for two months' back rent.
"Thinking about getting my hands on $270 was like thinking about $5,000 used to be," Mr. Brown said, shaking his head. The eviction notice put them less than 72 hours from being homeless.
For Mr. Brown, who had been employed all of his adult life and was within three credit hours of completing an associate's degree at night school, "It was unthinkable."
He added, "I wasn't the kind of person this sort of thing was supposed to happen to."
 
Men With Empty Attache Cases
 Mr. Brown, 31, had found himself among a growing number of New York City residents who once seemed, on paper at least, to be a safe distance from poverty and homelessness but now appear with greater frequency at overburdened social-service agencies. As the count of the city's needy has grown to nearly 1.1 million, agency officials say, more have middle-class roots.
"Every morning, men are leaving middle-class neighborhoods with an attache case empty except for a bag lunch, because they don't want the neighbors to know they're unemployed," said Stephen D. Solender, executive vice president of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of New York.
Increasingly, entry into the ranks of the newly poor has been marked by eviction notices. In 1991, the Community Service Society of New York provided emergency money to rescue 224 tenants from eviction, and turned away 200 more when its money ran out. Last year, the agency stopped 143 evictions, and 415 cases went begging. This year, there was only enough money to block 115 evictions, and 919 cases were turned away.
"We've seen people going from $600- and $800-a-month apartments to rooms, and they can't even afford the rooms," said Sanford Lewis, an administrator who helps oversee the society's eviction-prevention program. "Now we are also seeing people who are five and six months behind, while it used to be only one or two months of arrears a couple of years ago."
Karen Norden, a social worker for the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, said requests for help at her agency grew 40 percent from July 1992 to June 1993, and a "good portion" of the 1,350 pleas involved people who had lost their jobs or seen their hours drastically reduced after years of steady employment.
"They've never been in this situation before and they just don't know what to do," she said.
Such anecdotal evidence comes on top of statistics showing a 7 percent increase in the number of homeless families in city shelters; a similar rise in those depending on public assistance, and an 8 percent increase in demand for food stamps.
In the midst of this cycle, The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund begins its 82d annual appeal on Sunday. The campaign will collect donations to be given directly to seven of the city's largest charities, including the Community Service Society and the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies.
 
A City of Extremes
 The Neediest Cases appeal was born in 1912. Then, as now, New York was a city of striking extremes of wealth and poverty. On Christmas Day in 1911, that contrast troubled Adolph S. Ochs, then the publisher of The Times, after he gave a beggar money for shelter and new clothes.
Mr. Ochs decided that if his readers were made aware of the depths of the city's poverty, they would be eager to help. The next year, The Times published an article with the headline: "Santa Claus, Please Take Notice! Here are New York's 100 Neediest Cases." Within a few months, 117 contributors gave $3,630.88, which was distributed to three social-service agencies.
This year's campaign is particularly crucial, say the directors of the charities aided by the fund, because donations from other sources have not kept pace with inflation and an increase in demand in the last three years.
The Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, which receives Neediest Cases Fund money through the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, suffered a 10 percent loss in support last year and has cut two of five staff positions over the last two years. The Children's Aid Society, another Neediest Cases-supported agency, has a deficit of $4.8 million due to declines in donations and government programs.
Indeed, charities supported by the Neediest Cases Fund have faced a double-edged sword: while the number of people seeking help has risen, the number who can afford to give has fallen.
"Those who are employed are sitting on a ledge, precariously," said Megan E. McLaughlin, executive director of the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies.
 
Tens of Thousands Benefit
 "It is a wonder that we did as well as we did" with fund raising, she added. While nearly 14,000 people sent money to the Neediest Cases Fund last year, the total collection was 12 percent less than in the previous year, a decrease of about $615,000.
"The impact of this decline is severely affecting those battling the hardships of life in our city: homeless immigrants, hungry, abused and abandoned children, the destitute elderly, AIDS victims fighting to stay alive, and a fast growing category of families being evicted for nonpayment of rent because of job loss," said Arthur Gelb, president of The New York Times Foundation, which pays for all administrative costs of the campaign. "We appeal to the generosity of our readers to help ease their distress."
The money collected during the campaign, which in previous years has come from donors around the world, will help ease the lives of tens of thousands around the city. In the past it has provided everything from small gifts during the holiday season, such as a word processor for an honors student in Washington Heights, to more enduring help, such as support for a program in Brooklyn that has helped hundreds of destitute mentally ill people prepare to enter the job market. It has helped social agencies reunite families after they were separated in the shelter system. It has trained grandmothers to become mothers again as more of them assume responsibility for their children's children. And, as in the case of Mr. Brown, it has kept people off the streets.
By the time Mr. Brown received the notice of eviction, he had found a new, full-time clerical job, but the entry-level salary was simply too low for him to hold his home together.
"There was a moment of panic," he said. "And there was a lot of frustration."
 
Working Toward Security
 But with the help of the Community Service Society, the worst did not happen. The society, which has helped New York City's neediest for nearly 150 years, covered Mr. Brown's debts, helped him negotiate the housing court system and provided him with budget counseling to insure that he would be able to keep up.
As a result, Mr. Brown was able not only to keep his small apartment, but to start working his way back to security. In January, he will begin classes to finish his degree at Hostos Community College in the Bronx. And he recently completed an eight-week course to be certified as a medical assistant.
Mr. Brown knows he still has far to go. He said his first concern was to provide for his adopted son, who recently turned 21, during the holidays and then to work as hard as he can to get them both away from the projects.
"Where we used to live, you could sit on the porch, talk to people. Here, you can't think of that," he said. "Around here, one slip-up can mean a lot for a kid his age. My goal is keeping him on his feet."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Neediest Cases: Growing Numbers" shows shlter, publice assistance and food stamp recipients from 1985 to 1993. (Source: Community Service Society)(pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND EVICTION (89%); EXECUTIVES (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); HOMELESSNESS (72%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); CITY LIFE (64%); CITIES (64%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, RANDY MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1993



685 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: NCR Says Its Intention Is to Be 'Competitive'

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

 BODY:
Struggling with brutal price competition at home and sluggish markets overseas, A.T. & T.'s NCR Corporation stepped up its effort yesterday to reduce costs by trying to cut its work force by 7,500 people.
The computer company, based in Dayton, Ohio, has said it intends to reduce its worldwide work force of 51,000 people by as much as 15 percent and hopes to do it through voluntary leaves rather than layoffs. 
 "We must have a competitive cost structure," said Jerre L. Stead, NCR's chief executive. He said the cutbacks were part of a broader effort to trim layers of management and be more responsive to customers.
"We are putting decision-making authority closer to the customer," he said.
 
Cuts Deeper Than Contemplated
 The cuts are deeper than those contemplated earlier this year, when NCR decided to shut two plants. Last month it offered early-retirement incentives to about 5,500 employees.
The cutbacks come as the company struggles with shrinking profit margins throughout the computer industry and with sluggishness in the economies of Europe and Japan, where NCR does much of its business.
Under the program announced yesterday, about 25,000 employees with more than a year of service will be eligible for $5,000 lump-sum payments and other benefits if they decide to leave by Feb. 11. Company officials said they could not predict how much the cutbacks would cost until they learned how many people would accept the offer.
NCR has been taking a bruising all year, which company officials attribute largely to intense price competition and tight margins.
NCR suffered a $49 million operating loss in the quarter that ended Sept. 30; the year before it had a $50 million profit. In the second quarter, earnings plunged 73 percent, to $27 million, and the company ran a $20 million loss in the first quarter.
NCR's poor 1993 performance has already dragged down earnings at A.T. & T., shaving what might have been a 15 percent gain in earnings if NCR had held steady to just 10 percent. That is something of an embarrassment for A.T. & T., which acquired NCR for $7.5 billion in a hostile takeover more than two years ago.
But industry analysts believe NCR remains fundamentally healthy because it decided several years ago to shift from traditional mainframe and minicomputers toward "open" networks of linked computers.
"What I see happening is NCR restructuring into a new kind of business," said Berge Ayvazian, an analyst at the Yankee Group, a market research firm in Boston. "It's necessary for NCR to be well positioned in the 1990's."
Others contend that NCR has already made many of the right strategic moves.
"It's very well positioned," said Michael Elling, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Company. "It's not like I.B.M., with a sick mainframe business."
NCR has been struggling with at least two problems. One is that revenues from traditional mainframe computers have been falling faster than sales from the newer "3000" family have grown. For the most part, revenues in this area have come from long-term maintenance contracts, which have been dwindling as old systems are replaced.
In the third quarter, NCR said its service revenues declined by 8 percent while sales of computer products climbed by 4 percent. Over all, revenues in the third quarter slipped 2 percent from a year before, to $1.67 billion. NCR's annual sales are just over $7 billion.
A second problem stems from intense price competition, particularly in desktop and laptop computers. Mr. Stead said the far tighter profit margins were forcing the company to be more cost-conscious.
Finally, the company has suffered from sluggish business overseas, which accounts for nearly half its sales.
Mr. Stead predicted that NCR would turn a profit in the current quarter, which is usually the company's best of the year. But Mr. Elling of Oppenheimer said he did not believe it would complete a full turnaround until the second half of 1994.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "We must have a competitive cost structure," said Jerre L. Stead, chief executive of the NCR Corporation, on the company's efforts to cut its work force by 7,500 people. (A.T.& T.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NCR (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (93%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NCR CORP NCR CORP (93%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (60%); YANKEE GROUP (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: NCR CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); OHIO, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (87%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (87%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (86%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); CONTUSIONS (77%); TAKEOVERS (73%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); EARLY RETIREMENT (68%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (60%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L; STEAD, JERRE L

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1993



686 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Durable Goods Orders Surge 2% to Record

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 24

 BODY:
The economy's manufacturing sector gained fresh momentum in October as orders for durable goods surged 2 percent, to a record level, the Commerce Department reported today.
It was the third consecutive rise for these big-ticket items, which range from lathes to yachts, providing a likely continuing source of strength in 1994 that analysts expect will cushion retrenchment by consumers. 
 A second Government report today showed that new unemployment claims edged up just 1,000 last week, considered a quite satisfactory performance in holding nearly all of a 20,000 improvement in the preceding holiday-shortened week. The total number of people collecting benefits fell by 89,000.
Separately, auto makers reported that sales of domestically built vehicles rose 20.5 percent in mid-November. [Page D5.]
"Everything's moving along pretty well," said Raymond A. Worseck, chief economist for A. G. Edwards & Sons, the St. Louis-based brokerage house. Nearly all the figures published so far for October, including retail sales and housing, have shown accelerated growth. Factory employment ended a slide that began last winter.
Predictions for total output in the final 1993 quarter now typically approach 4 percent. One very large investor, George Soros, said today while taping an appearance on John McLaughlin's PBS television program "One on One" that gross domestic product would soar during this period at a rate of "6 percent plus."
Yet even as consumers step up spending, their mood remains cautious as they face tax increases, health care overhaul and lingering uncertainty over jobs. Today, the University of Michigan told subscribers that its consumer sentiment index eased to 81.2 in mid-November from 82.7 for October.
With income growth sluggish, consumers have gained spending power by refinancing mortgages. However, Kathryn Eickhoff, a New York consultant and former chief economist at the Office of Management and Budget, said the kicking in of tax increases would help cut the annual growth rate in the gross domestic product to 2.5 percent to 3 percent in the first three months of next year.
Still, today's figures on durable goods orders make it less likely that the economy will repeat last year's post-holiday skid from a 5.7 percent burst in the October-December quarter to a gain of just eight-tenths of 1 percent in the January-March period.
"You can look a little further ahead," Ms. Eickhoff said, referring to what are now record levels in durable goods for both orders and shipments. The October orders, $135.8 billion, surpassed by $1 billion the preceding peak in December 1988.
Although the October orders were paced by a 5.5 percent jump in transportation equipment, with automotive goods and aircraft more than offsetting a decline in shipbuilding and tanks, the rise was exceptionally broad. Eight of the 10 major industry groups had increases, the department found.
 
 
Excluding Transportation
 And excluding the volatile transportation sector, new orders gained nine-tenths of 1 percent, the fifth consecutive increase. By contrast, orders fell on this basis for three of the first five months of the year.
There was also a 4.4 percent advance for nonmilitary capital goods, such as machine tools, a widely watched indicator of corporate investment plans. Aircraft and parts accounted for much of this but the gain was still 1.5 percent with aircraft excluded.
Ronald H. Brown, the Commerce Secretary, said in a statement that this indicated that "the economy's productive capacity is rising along with the increase in demand for goods."
Over all, new nonmilitary orders climbed 2.7 percent, with industrial machinery and equipment up 1.3 percent, electronic and other electrical equipment up eight-tenths of 1 percent and primary metals up three-tenths of 1 percent.
 
 
Orders Data 'Encouraging'
 Susan M. Hering, an economist at Salomon Brothers, called the orders figures "encouraging" and noted that while shipments rose only a scant one-tenth of 1 percent, far less than in August and September, they nevertheless set a new record.
For the year to date, new orders are running 8.3 percent ahead of the comparable 1992 pace while shipments are 7.8 percent ahead, the report also showed.
Unfilled orders for durable goods eased four-tenths of 1 percent in October, to $426.7 billion, the lowest level since June 1988. This was the eighth consecutive monthly decline and the 27th in the last 32 months.
The weakness in backlogs, however, is concentrated in military and civilian aircraft, economists at C. J. Lawrence observed.
The orders gain for September was revised upward, to 1.1 percent from the seven-tenths of 1 percent the department initially reported.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Durable-Goods Orders" shows manufacturers total new orders for durable goods from May 1992 to Oct. 1993. (Source: Commerce Department)(pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT A G EDWARDS & SONS INC (56%); A G EDWARDS & SONS INC (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); DURABLE GOODS (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); SHIPBUILDING (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (70%); RETAIL SALES (69%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (65%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (65%); AUTOMAKERS (54%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR GEORGE SOROS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1993



687 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Mixed Despite Data On Factory Orders and Jobs

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar finished mixed against other currencies yesterday in light, pre-holiday trading.
Currency traders said the market shrugged off a report of a record high in orders to factories for durable goods in October. Another Government report said only 1,000 newly laid-off workers filed first-time applications for unemployment insurance last week, better than expected. 
 "There was a limited reaction," said Randolph L. Donney, director of capital markets research at Pegasus Econometric Group. "We're in sort of a holiday market."
In late New York trading, the dollar slipped to 108.17 Japanese yen, from 108.38 yen on Tuesday. But it rose to 1.7035 German marks from 1.7022 marks.
Gold prices, meanwhile, were mostly lower. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for December delivery closed at $377.20 an ounce, off 10 cents.
 
 
'An Icing'
 The dollar's advance against the mark was restrained by comments by the head of the German central bank, Hans Tietmeyer. He said the bank should be cautious about further cuts in interest rates.
"It's put an icing on the idea that the Germans were going to accelerate" the rate cuts, said Angelo Evangelista, a vice president at Bank of Boston.
Lowered interest rates might give a lift to Germany's ailing economy, but could drive the mark lower, since deposits in German marks would earn less.
Currency traders said the Bank of Canada intervened in the markets to support the Canadian currency after it tumbled following newspaper reports that Canada's budget deficit was going to be greater than expected.
Late yesterday, both the Standard & Poor's Corporation and Dominion Bond Rating Service Ltd. lowered their ratings on Ontario's long-term debt. But once the expected downgrades were announced, the Canadian dollar firmed. In New York, the United States dollar rose to $1.3303 (Canadian) from $1.3266 (Canadian).
"It was the anticipation of the downgrades that really hurt," said Margaret Kudarauskas, a foreign exchange specialist at Technical Data.
Meanwhile, the British pound rose to $1.4880 from $1.4855.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (66%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (66%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (95%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (52%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (66%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES CANADA (95%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (52%); BOSTON, MA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; GOLD CURRENCIES (94%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (88%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (86%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); BONDS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); BRITISH POUND (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); BUDGETS (71%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1993



688 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Sales of Domestic Vehicles Rose 20.5% in Mid-November

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Nov. 24

 BODY:
Sales of domestically built vehicles rose 20.5 percent in mid-November, a sharp increase from the corresponding period a year ago and a robust rate that presaged even stronger sales through the early part of next year.
Sales of cars built in North America rose 16.4 percent, to 183,320, for the period Nov. 11-20, while sales of light trucks, which include mini-vans and sport utility vehicles, rose 26 percent, to 146,489. Total vehicle sales were 329,809, up from 273,717 during the corresponding period last year. 
 The seasonally adjusted annual rate of car sales was 7 million, the same as the rate for early November, but up considerably from the 5.9 million rate a year earlier.
"The size and the breadth of the increase are quite encouraging," Tom Webb, an economist for the National Automobile Dealers Association, said.
Wendy Needham, automotive analyst for Smith Barney in New York, said she was looking for an improved rate of sales during the next six months. "It's clear now that the slowdown last summer had to do with availability," she said. "When vehicles are available, people buy them."
The General Motors Corporation, the No. 1 producer, increased its sales of domestic cars by 17.6 percent, to 78,955, and sales of light trucks by 25.3 percent, to 53,531. The star of G.M.'s car divisions was Chevrolet, which posted a 33.7 percent increase. The laggard was Cadillac, whose sales fell 26.2 percent because of a slow model change-over for its Deville.
G.M.'s full-size pickup trucks gained more than 25 percent compared with the corresponding period last year. Even G.M.'s mini-vans, which had been slow sellers, enjoyed a sales rise.
The Ford Motor Company reported an 8.4 percent gain in car sales, to 48,376, and a 39.3 percent gain in light-truck sales, to 50,842.
The Chrysler Corporation reports its sales only on a monthly basis.
 
Japanese Sales Also Rise
 Japanese auto makers also benefitted from the increased demand.
Sales of the Nissan Motor Company's cars built in North America rose 48.5 percent, to 7,387, in the period and sales of the company's North American light trucks rose 59.9 percent, to 4,340.
The Toyota Motor Corporation reported a 29.7 percent increase in car sales, to 10,073, while light-truck sales rose 38.6 percent, to 3,528.
The Honda Motor Company said car sales rose 3.9 percent, to 10,520.
The Mazda Motor Corporation posted car sales of 2,968, a gain of 1.6 percent from last year. Mazda's light-truck sales were 1,649, compared with 181 a year ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); TYT (LSE) (80%); TM (NYSE) (80%); 7203 (TSE) (80%); 7261 (TSE) (80%); 7201 (TSE) (63%); HMC (NYSE) (61%); 7267 (TSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (80%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (84%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (80%); MAZDA MOTOR CORP (80%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (68%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (63%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (63%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (61%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; SALES AUTOMOTIVE SALES (94%); MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); SALES FIGURES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MINIVANS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (79%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); PICKUP TRUCKS (74%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1993



689 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1422 words

HEADLINE: High Hopes for Low Interest Rates

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR

 BODY:
Despite a recent upturn in interest rates, many economists and market analysts believe that the United States has entered an era of rates far lower than in the 1980's that is likely to last for many years -- thanks to a host of forces ranging from an inflation-fighting Federal Reserve to a slow-growing world economy.
"We really are in an environment of lower interest rates," said Joel L. Prakken, an economist at Laurence H. Meyer & Associates, a forecasting firm in St. Louis that predicted the sharp decline in rates earlier this year. "We call it, 'Back to the 60's.' " 
 Even though long-term rates have jumped nearly half a percentage point in recent weeks, they remain appetizingly low to middle-aged baby boomers, many of whose first mortgages were about 12 percent. While current interest rates -- with a long-term Treasury bond rate of about 6.3 percent -- are not unusually low in a longer historical perspective, they are low enough to be a benefit to the economy.
To be sure, the only certain thing about interest rates is that they will not stay where they are today. Some forecasters expect rates to edge down again. Others, like James E. Annable, chief economist at the First National Bank of Chicago, say long-term rates will rise some more, as they often do when an expansion progresses and inflation picks up. Mr. Annable, one of the most bearish forecasters on interest rates, looks for long-bond rates to average about 7 percent next year.
More certain, according to most forecasters, is that short-term rates, which are at 30-year lows, will rise as the economy keeps growing.
What is striking, however, is that almost no one expects a return any time soon to the days of double-digit interest rates and spiraling inflation. For now, both bears and bulls predict rates will move up and down in a far narrower band, roughly 5 to 7 percent, than they did for most of the 1980's, when they fluctuated between 8 and 14 percent.
"You'll have plain vanilla interest-rate fluctuations," said Richard B. Hoey, chief economist and portfolio manager of the Dreyfus Corporation. He said rates could as easily go up as they could go down in the immediate future. "But you won't repeat the bear market from 1979 to 1981, which was the bond equivalent of the Great Crash in the stock market of 1929 to 1932," he said. "The 1980's were the aberration, not 1993."
Most people agree that rates like those many of their mothers and fathers paid on their home and business loans would be golden, not just for the would-be owner of a split-level house or a Range Rover, but also for the economy. Low rates, in particular low inflation-adjusted rates, tend to favor investments from college educations and computers to highways and houses. Just about everyone from President Clinton on down believes that more investment is needed to raise American standards of living.
Economists expect rates to remain lower than during the 1980's because they do not expect either inflation or credit demand to surge during the 1990's.
Take inflation. There are few signs of inflationary pressures in the economy. The Consumer Price Index has risen at an annual rate of only 3 percent in the last year, and the Blue Chip consensus of economic forecasters expects the index to rise at about the same rate next year.
Unemployment is inching down, and capacity utilization is edging up slowly. The dollar has been drifting up. Oil prices are not expected to soar in a weak world economy. Europe and Japan are still slumping and are not expected to generate increases in commodity prices.
 
 
Importance of Expectations
 More important, most people now say they believe that inflation will stay low, which should hold down speculative pressures, like higher wage demands and price increases.
A quarterly survey by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia shows that inflation expectations have fallen steadily over the last decade. Business executives polled in the survey predicted that the consumer inflation rate would be running at only about 3.5 percent 10 years from now. That is in sharp contrast to the predictions made in 1981, when inflation was in the double digits, and executives predicted a consumer inflation rate of more than 8 percent for the next decade.
"What's really different is that people's expectations have genuinely switched from a high-inflation world to a low-inflation world," said Christina Romer, an economist at the University of California at Berkeley who has studied interest-rate trends over the last century. "As long as we stay in a world of low inflation, there's no reason for long-term rates to shoot back up."
Most economists give much of the credit for the change in expectations to the Federal Reserve and the credibility that it has built as an inflation fighter during the reigns of Paul A. Volcker, who became the Fed's chairman in 1979, and Alan Greenspan, the chairman since 1987.
 
 
The Fed Shows the Way
 "Obviously, the Federal Reserve isn't omniscient and perfect, and there are political considerations that impinge on monetary policy," said William Poole, an economist at Brown University and a member of the Shadow Open Market Committee, a group of prominent monetarists who track Federal Reserve policy. "The market understands lots of ambiguity in the data, but it has a lot of confidence that the Fed will sort the data out and move interest rates appropriately."
The second broad reason that rates will remain low, economists say, is that the world economy is not going to boom during the 1990's. As a result, credit demand is likely to remain moderate.
"One of the reasons rates got as high as they did in early 80's, is that credit demand was tremendously strong," Mr. Hoey said.
Real long-term interest rates -- the component of interest rates other than inflation -- are now about 2.5 percent, about half of what they averaged during the 1980's. And the current thinking is that they will stay down.
 
 
A Rise Would Reflect Growth
 Robert J. Barro, a Harvard economist, said that even if real rates began to move up, it would be a sign that a booming world economy and new technologies were creating an abundance of investment opportunities. But he said he did not expect that would be the case in coming years.
Private credit demand is likely to grow at a more moderate pace than in the 1980's, many economists predict. Many consumers struggled with heavy debt payments during the recent economic downturn. And although consumers have recently increased their borrowing, they are not relying on debt as aggressively as they did in the 1980's. For one, people are not looking at house purchases as hedges against inflation, and there is a reduced tendency to buy as much in housing as possible.
Charles I. Clough Jr., the chief investment strategist of Merrill Lynch & Company, notes that the bulk of the baby-boom generation, who bought houses during the 1980's and early 1990's, will be leaving the high borrowing years.
One of the biggest users of credit is the Federal Government. When the Federal deficit was growing, the expectation was that it would keep expanding. As a result, real long-term interest rates became very high. After budget cuts and tax increases by the Bush and Clinton Administrations, however, many people now expect the deficit to shrink relative to the size of the economy.
 
 
Debt Has No Dominion
 Similarly, corporations are still recovering from the debt hangover of 1980's and are not eager to accumulate debt. Because of a bull market in stocks, companies have been able to finance expansion by selling shares. Further, the sectors that typically use lots of credit, like commercial construction, are relatively weak.
In the rest of the world, there is little indication of a credit boom. When the Berlin wall fell, "the expectation was that there was going to be an investment boom in former Communist countries," said Mark M. Zandi, chief economist of Regional Financial Associates. "That view has shifted because of the uncertain political environment."
Can the new era end faster than the consensus expects? Certainly.
"There is a tremendous tendency to understate the volatility of rates," Mr. Hoey said. "It's an economic boom causing inflation. Or it's a currency plunge. Or it's an oil price shock."
For now, however, many economists are betting that such episodes are either unlikely or short-lived and that the benefits of low rates will continue to bolster the economy.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Looking Forward To Calmer Seas" shows yield on 10-year treasury note, the inflation rate from 1965 to 1990 and expectations of inflation. (Source: L.H. Mayer & Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (54%); JPM (LSE) (54%); 8634 (TSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (62%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (54%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: DREYFUS CORP (62%); FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO HEIGHTS (54%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; FORECASTS ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); INTEREST RATES (94%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); BONDS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (68%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (63%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1993



690 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Home Desk

LENGTH: 2003 words

HEADLINE: Adoptions That Lack Papers, Not Purpose

BYLINE: By LYNDA RICHARDSON

 BODY:
NATHAN AND JANET RILEY married three years ago and immediately took a little boy named Charles Johnson 3d into their home in Philadelphia. The Rileys are now learning about P.T.A.'s, French-horn lessons and temper tantrums -- the realities of raising a son. They fret over private concerns when the child, Mr. Riley's great-nephew, is out of earshot: are they hugging him enough? Should they say "I love you" more?
There were no legal papers, no social workers, no Government involvement when the newlyweds informally adopted Charles in a long-accepted practice of African-American life. Mr. Riley said he just knew that it was his job to raise the boy to manhood. 
 The 12-year-old, now in a program for gifted children at a public school, was growing up tragically on Philadelphia's gritty streets, the child of a convicted felon who recently died in prison and a crack-addicted mother. In his mother's care, the reedy-slim boy would be found begging for food with a metal can on street corners or huddled like dumped trash in abandoned buildings with no doors, windows or lights, Mr. Riley said.
"I knew I needed to raise him as a strong young black man and teach him moral values, honesty, integrity and how to resist peer pressures," said Mr. Riley, 38, who is a medical coordinator for a mental health agency in Philadelphia. "It was something that came natural. He's a part of my family and a part of my blood."
For black families across America, informal adoption can range from the grandmother's rearing grandchildren to the kindly church lady taking in abandoned children to the acquaintance who is drafted to be a "play sister" or "play uncle."
Amid the public discussion of the deficiencies in many black families, informal adoption has often provided the seeds of family rejuvenation. From its origins in African collective societies through the slave trade and the migration of blacks from the South to Northern cities, the practice has endured.
Though many other ethnic groups have a tradition of taking care of relatives in need, many sociologists and child-care advocates say informal adoption is as distinctive to African-American culture as jazz.
"It is part of our culture," said Robert B. Hill, a black sociologist at Morgan State University in Baltimore, who has written extensively on the practice. "We say so few positive things about black families, and this is a trait that most blacks have experienced."
Mr. Riley and his wife, Janet, who is a dental technician, have never seriously considered a formal adoption. Mr. Riley said that he had never seen a need for the Government to get involved and that if legal difficulties occurred, "we'll cross that bridge when we get to it."
Informal adoption runs in his family. Mr. Riley has a 53-year-old sister, a nurse's aide, who is raising four grandchildren. Because of their parents' involvement with drugs, the children were taken in by their grandmother despite her financial troubles.
Mr. Riley's late mother was known as Mom Riley in their north Philadelphia community. "She was a mother to everybody," Mr. Riley said. "She would take them home to get something to eat and get them clothes from Goodwill."
Compared with whites, blacks are informally adopted at a higher rate, figures show. Dr. Hill, working with census data, found that in 1970, 25 percent of all black households had three generations living in them; in 1990, that figure had risen to 40 percent. A typical situation finds a grandparent caring for a teen-age mother and her child. The corresponding figure for white households rose from 20 percent to 30 percent, Dr. Hill said. He also found that among blacks, the practice is more common among low-income groups.
Dr. Andrew Billingsley, a sociologist who specializes in black family issues at the University of Maryland at College Park, cited Government statistics that he said showed that of the estimated one million black children in this country who do not live with a biological parent, nearly 800,000 have been informally adopted, usually by a grandparent. The remaining 200,000 are in the child-welfare system, which includes foster care and orphanages.
Marjorie Valleau, a spokeswoman for the New York City Human Resources Administration, acknowledged that the practice is a longtime tradition and said she did not know of any legal problems. "It's an admirable practice because certainly it keeps children with relatives and close family friends," she said, "and that's 100 percent better than putting children with strangers." But Ms. Valleau strongly recommended that individuals consider legal guardianship as a safeguard for the children in dealing with schools, hospitals and other bureaucracies.
As someone who was informally adopted, John Henrik Clarke, a historian and a professor emeritus at Hunter College in New York, did not blink when he met a man who introduced him to his seven mothers in Accra, Ghana, earlier this year. "He said, 'This is my mother, this is my senior mother,' and he called everybody else in his mother's age group his mother," Dr. Clarke said.
When Dr. Clarke, 78, was growing up in Columbus, Ga., he was taken in by a black cook, Rosa Lee, with whom he worked in the home of a white family. His mother had died, and he did not get along with his father's new wife. He moved into Ms. Lee's home at age 14 and stayed there until he was 18.
For Dr. Clarke, who taught for 17 years in Hunter College's department of African and Puerto Rican studies, the experience of informal adoption set a challenge for him. "I felt the responsibility that I owe something out there," he said. "I trained a generation of Ph.D.'s. My students have been ambassadors, engineers, doctors. And this is from a poor kid from a sharecropper's family?"
Dr. Clarke said he is heartened every time he travels the thousands of miles to West Africa, to which many American blacks trace their roots, and sees the connection between the way he grew up and the way that "family" is a large-scale community enterprise there. In this country, he added, "a lot of people see it as the right thing to do."
"Some see it as the Christian thing to do," he continued, "but a lot of things we do are African, and we're not aware that it's African unless we go to Africa."
During the slave trade, blacks were forced to redefine family when parents and children were sold and separated. During the great migration of blacks to Northern industrial cities in the early 1940's, informal adoption was an accepted way to leave children behind as their parents sought a better life for their families.
Dr. Clarke said cultural differences as well as inequalities under the law made people reluctant to get the Government involved in issues as intimate as that of what makes a family. "We just didn't think we would be treated properly or that the other group would understand the nature of our culture," he continued. "We didn't trust adoption agencies because there weren't that many, and the city agencies didn't understand the structure of black family life."
The tradition has persisted, though Dr. Clarke and others who have studied it have varying opinions on whether it is as pervasive as it once was. Some suggest that drug abuse, teen-age pregnancies and a shortage of affordable housing, among other things, have caused informal adoptions to increase.
Others believe that while the practice is an entrenched feature of black family life, its occurrence among nonrelatives has diminished in recent years because of a poor economy, concerns about Government oversight and fear caused by increased levels of violence.
"There's been a real decline in the level of trust in general and maybe an unwillingness to extend oneself beyond the immediate family," said Katherine McFate, associate director of social policy at the Joint Center for Political Studies in Washington, a research institute that focuses on black concerns. "The community controls are not there the way they were."
When blacks began to move from segregated communities in large numbers as a result of civil rights gains, the sense of community also may have been diluted, Dr. Billingsley said, adding, "Progress has a downside to it."
In Columbia, S.C., Annette Pou returned from a weekend vacation several years ago to find an unfamiliar 12-year-old girl living in her family's home. The girl, Joy Goodwin, and her mother, a friend of Ms. Pou's mother, had been evicted from their house and had moved in.
Ms. Goodwin, who is now 24, has never moved out of Ms. Pou's life. She followed her "big sister" every step of the way from South Carolina to Brooklyn, where they share an apartment.
In the black enclave where they grew up together in Columbia, neighbors knew each other's name, attended school together and went to church together on Sunday. And no one thought twice when strangers became a part of the family, said Ms. Pou, 29, a receptionist at the New York City Department of Environmental Protection.
A custom like informal adoption should be preserved because it fosters a sense of belonging, said Mary Connolly, a psychotherapist who lives in the Bronx. "If we had more of it, we'd have fewer problems, less mental illness, less separation, not as many dropouts," continued Mrs. Connolly, who has been "taking in" children for most of her adult life.
Years ago, Mrs. Connolly raised a nephew from age 6 to 16 because of family troubles in his home. She also took in his 11-year-old sister when she came to New York from North Carolina to run track in local tournaments. The niece stayed until she was 20.
Now 50, Mrs. Connolly rushes home every night to care for Arikka Noid, 5, who calls her Mommy. She is looking for a full-time baby sitter for the first time in her life, is mulling over choices of elementary schools for the child, now in kindergarten, and is proud to be the oldest member of the parents' advisory council at the school. But privately, she is worried about growing too old to care for the girl.
Mrs. Connolly and her husband, Martin, a real estate agent, had never wanted a child of their own. But it never occurred to Mrs. Connolly not to take in Arikka when the child's mother died in a car accident five years ago. Arikka is the daughter of Mrs. Connolly's nephew. Mrs. Connolly said she and her nephew, 25, who lives in North Carolina, agreed that since she is more mature and settled, she would be the person to raise Arikka.
"It was the way I was brought up," said Mrs. Connolly, who as a child, along with her entire family, moved in with her grandmother in North Carolina when her father died. "It was the responsibility of the family when someone was not available, you just take over."
Though Mrs. Connolly is kept on the move (and a little winded) as her little charge races about the house, she does not mind following in the girl's footsteps. "I'm the only mom she's got and I couldn't love her more."
 
 
Relatives as Foster Parents
 GOVERNMENT agencies around the country are increasingly placing children with relatives in kinship-care foster programs, which sociologists like Dr. Robert B. Hill at Morgan State University in Baltimore call "formalized informal adoptions."
Of the 48,086 children in New York City's foster-care system, 20,571 are cared for by relatives. But some families shun the kinship-care program because of concerns about Government intrusion, said Marjorie Valleau, a spokeswoman for the city's Human Resources Administration.
A caretaker who is receiving public assistance benefits would get increased benefits in a kinship program but would also be subject to more Government oversight, including visits from caseworkers, fingerprinting and background checks for abuse and neglect, Ms. Valleau said.
Caretakers who are receiving public assistance but are neither legal guardians nor relatives can still get Government benefits, Ms. Valleau said, including food stamps and Medicaid, under a home-relief program.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mary Connolly, 50, a psychotherapist in the Bronx, is raising Arikka Noid, her nephew's 5-year-old daughter. The child's mother died in a car accident five years ago. Mrs. Connolly worries about growing too old to look after the girl (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) (pg. C1); Nathan and Janet Riley are raising Charles Johnson 3d, right, along with their 17-month-old baby, Brandon. (David Fields for The New York Times) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ADOPTIONS; BLACKS (IN US) CHILDREN (89%); ADOPTION (89%); FAMILY (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); CHILD WELFARE (76%); SOCIOLOGY (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); GRANDPARENTS (69%); ETHNIC GROUPS (69%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (69%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); GIFTED EDUCATION (68%); CHILD CARE (68%); FELONIES (67%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (67%); SLAVERY (61%); ETHNICITY (60%); 

PERSON: RICHARDSON, LYNDA

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1993



691 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Home Desk

LENGTH: 1527 words

HEADLINE: HOUSE PROUD;
A Jewel-Box Library Dream

BYLINE: By WILLIAM L. HAMILTON

 BODY:
"IN Russia, it's an old saying," said Vicky Nicholas. "If you really hate someone, you tell them, 'May you renovate your apartment every hour.' "
Vicky and David Nicholas had a one-bedroom apartment to divide by two professional adults and three grown children who visit frequently. Cleverly, they employed the power of words rather than numbers to solve the problem. 
 Ignoring the practicality of using a small spare room in their Chelsea apartment as a guest bedroom, the pair instead created an intimate library for themselves that enlarged the apartment by opening the imagination. Giving themselves exactly what they wanted, instead of precisely what they needed, turned out to be an excellent renovation strategy: they maximized space by making the most of its emotional content.
If all happy families are alike, what makes them happy differs. For Mrs. Nicholas, a Russian emigre and a physician, and her husband, David, a printer, it was the thought of a private library, as carefully constructed as a literary description: rich woods, glass-fronted bookcases, brass knobs, faded tapestry, a beautiful desk and a low plush sofa that one could stretch out on while reading, as though in a rowboat that someone else was rowing. A country-house room, an elegant scene from Chekhov. Say dacha.
Like fiction, the Nicholases' library is completely invented. What was there was nothing: a standard co-op conversion had left them a 9-by-15-foot box, an acrobatically high ceiling, the architectural detail of an amnesiac's childhood home.
The Nicholases had friends who had built a library, improbably, in an apartment hallway. They recommended their architect, Joan Dineen.
Mrs. Nicholas has a strong, friendly face and manner, taste and opinions -- strong like black Russian tea. "I had a little apprehension," Mrs. Nicholas recalled about working with an architect, especially "the idea that someone will come and tell me what has to be done."
Renovation began like a story told to the therapist: they just wanted some bookshelves, that was all. Mrs. Nicholas had moved into her future husband's apartment four years earlier with many boxes of books. Ms. Dineen realized from their discussions that what actually intrigued them was the relaxing refinement that a room of books represented. So they let the books, and the boxlike room, become the plan for a library.
With the addition of woodwork but no structural changes, Ms. Dineen designed a classic European "cabinet," a small, well-appointed room where one traditionally conducted family business and which served as a place for personal things.
Ms. Dineen and the Nicholases agreed on cherry wood. "It was a compromise between walnut and mahogany," Ms. Dineen said. "Cherry is lighter, but still rich."
A wall of cabinetry encases the room's two windows: there are glass-fronted bookshelves between them, with built-in storage drawers below those; deep wood grills beneath the windows mask heating and air-conditioning units. The depth of the cabinets gives the windows deep reveals and broad sills, which enhance the room's snug quality. Opposite the window wall, Ms. Dineen refitted existing closets and drawers with new doors that matched the bookcases.
The height of the room, 10 feet, suited the purpose and character of a library. But wall moldings and ceiling detail had been stripped away in the original conversion. Ms. Dineen designed a cornice with a clean Gothic line and curve that recalled famous libraries like Horace Walpole's at Strawberry Hill. The cornice completes the cabinet effect; its lowest element also serves as a picture rail.
Ms. Dineen worked with a familiar team: Tamas Banovich, a Hungarian sculptor and former woodworker and furniture maker, as contractor, and Harvey Talent, a cabinetmaker whose work Mr. Banovich admired.
Installing a room's worth of cabinetry is roughly like building a ship in a bottle. "Measuring is the most important part of a job like this," Mr. Banovich said. "Within two feet, the ceiling dropped three-eighths of an inch. A cornice is a rigid thing. It's already built. So I had to go up into the structure and lift the ceiling for two feet."
The Nicholases appreciated Mr. Banovich's meticulousness; Mrs. Nicholas said there was a sympathy between her and Mr. Banovich because both are from Europe. And because the couple wanted craft, they were willing to wait for precision.
The library took six months, from hello to goodbye. Because the quality of materials and the care of the work were important -- Mr. Talent used solid cherry rather than veneer, and drawers that slide on wooden grooves rather than on standard hardware runners -- the woodworking and cabinetry alone, including the cornice, came to about $20,000. But for the Nicholases, the expense was relative, as it is for many apartment owners today: it was part of a larger decision to stay put and personalize what they had, rather than to buy something larger.
It cost about another $14,000 for Mr. Banovich to fit the preconstructed pieces into place, adjusting minutely as he installed -- essentially a second cabinetry job -- and to treat the wood and finish the rest of the room, including wiring, walls and floors. The ceiling had to be rewired and replastered so that the couple could hang a 19th-century lamp of bronze and New England sandwich glass, the size and shape of a samovar, that serves as the room's centerpiece. Ms. Dineen's fee, in addition, was about 15 percent of the total.
Still, cost was monitored closely. Ms. Dineen gave them choices involving design, quality of materials and levels of finish at each step, as did Mr. Banovich. For example, walls that weren't wood were coated not with paint but with integral plaster, which contains pigment (in this case a grayish-green) and which produces a textured effect, like aged fresco, when troweled. The walls were then waxed; they now have the smoothness of old, faintly marbled leather -- a nice reference to book binding. The cost of the choice: about $2,000.
Mrs. Nicholas accompanied Ms. Dineen on shopping trips to places like the Decoration and Design Building, where she chose a velvetlike sofa fabric called Ibisco, which resembled old tapestry (by Voghi from Ian Wall, $89 a yard). At P. E. Gurein, she chose brass cabinet knobs -- not the $350 ones, but $35 brass-plated Baldwins instead.
Finished, the library sets off its collection of unusual things as beautifully as a jewel case. The couple found a German desk at a 10th Street antiques shop, a lean-limbed, modern-looking transitional piece, from Empire to Biedermeier: that is Mrs. Nicholas's study. The fringed settee is a convertible sofa: that is the guest room.
But it's that indefinable thing in the air, like the smell of old books, that's now the rarest thing in the room: a sense of being peacefully in place, literally contained in one's own thought.
"I come home and sit in there and marvel," Mr. Nicholas said.
Mrs. Nicholas added, "I could never imagine that you could build something like this."
 
Specs
 IN renovation, hindsight often provides the best foresight. But unfortunately for many people, a costly renovation is undertaken only once. Tamas Banovich, Vicky and David Nicholases' contractor, had general advice for people who are considering a such a renovation.
Be aware that the likely cost overrun of any job could be as high as 20 percent: set yourself an initial budget that is not at the strained end of what you can afford. The time to be budget-conscious is in the design stage. A modest design done well will be more beautiful and less heartbreaking than an elaborate design executed poorly. Inferior materials, bad workmanship and cut corners will show -- and cost money to fix later.
Mr. Banovich believes in early cooperation between a contractor and architect or designer. He said that clients sometimes distrust an architect's recommending a contractor, thinking they should invite bidding later on. But a contractor who reviews designs and decisions at an early stage will help insure that the design will be buildable and as economical as possible. A contractor can also help a client understand the costs involved in choosing a design and in realizing it.
Mr. Banovich, like the architect, Joan Dineen, gave the Nicholases choices at each step -- in large decisions like wall treatments, but also in simple things like wall switches and doorknobs. They could choose something expensive or could use those junctures as places to save money. He also gave the couple the opportunity to correct things that had been done poorly in the apartment's previous conversion. When a wall or ceiling was opened, he pointed out the poor wiring. Mr. Banovich thinks it sends a good signal to a client if a contractor begins with more questions than promises.
Mr. Banovich has found that people sometimes begin work before they're ready. Don't start before all the materials, hardware and other elements have arrived on site, he cautions. If you draw up a contract with a longer preparation time, you can shorten construction time, which is usually more costly.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Vicky Nicholas amid the refinements of an elegant library. An antique German desk serves as her home office; Glass-fronted bookcases make a country-style hideaway in mid-Manhattan. A sofa opens to create a guest room. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); UNITED STATES (57%); GERMANY (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (57%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); UNITED STATES (57%); GERMANY (51%); NEW YORK, USA (57%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: INTERIOR DESIGN FAMILY (89%); LITERATURE (75%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (72%); FAMILY COMPANIES (68%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, WILLIAM L; NICHOLAS, VICKY (DR); NICHOLAS, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1993



692 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: Peru's Peasant Victims Still Need Help

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Signs of economic recovery in Peru have drawn the world's attention. While no one should begrudge Peru prosperity, given its travails, which have been marked by political violence and surging poverty, a too-speedy return to the rhetoric of economic recovery (as opposed to that of imminent collapse) masks the human toll of 13 years of war.
Today, Peru has more internal refugees than any other country in the hemisphere, calculated by humanitarian aid groups at 600,000. The majority are peasant women and children who have fled both Government-sponsored terror and the terror of the Maoist Shining Path rebel movement. As recently as last August, a Shining Path attack in jungle communities around Santa Rosa de Shiriari cost 62 lives and forced 700 Ashaninka Indians, along with settlers from the mountains, to flee. 
 The international community must look at Peru not only as an investment opportunity. There is an urgent need to assist the forcibly displaced with food, medicine, shelter and, above all, protection from both Government repression and Shining Path attacks. So far, the Government has done nothing, preferring to ignore the victims of war in the interest of keeping social spending at shockingly low levels (in part, to keep up the payments on the foreign debt that make it attractive to business).
Half of Peru's population of 22 million now lives in extreme poverty. Among the poorest are the internal refugees, who are suffering significantly higher levels of infant mortality, disease, and malnutrition than the poor in general.
If democracy is to return to Peru -- and prosperity with it -- an international effort to help the internally displaced, including those who wish to return to their burned-out villages, is urgently needed.
Returnees, some of whom have already reclaimed the heights above Ayacucho, are willing to stake their lives. We should back them with concrete aid as well as pressure on the Government to rebuild their homes, invest in agriculture, and encourage the return of civilian (not military) rule to areas now under emergency decree. Without such efforts, the Peruvians who have paid the highest price for their country may be left out of the augured "boom." They deserve better.
 
ROBIN KIRK
Durham, N.C., Nov. 16, 1993
 
The author has written reports on Peru's internal refugees for the Washington-based United States Committee for Refugees.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: PERU (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DURHAM, NC, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: SHINING PATH (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHINING PATH (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PERU PERU (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); DISPLACED PERSONS (89%); WRITERS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); MALNUTRITION (77%); POLITICS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); CIVIL WAR (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); CHILDREN (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (75%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (69%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (66%); INFANT MORTALITY (50%); 

PERSON: KIRK, ROBIN

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1993



693 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 25, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Assignment: Bring Asia To the Amex

BYLINE: By ANDREA ADELSON

 BODY:
The American Stock Exchange said yesterday that Lisa S. Y. Sun, a lawyer, had been appointed managing director of the exchange's newly created Asia division.
Her job will be to generate new listings on the Amex from among emerging Asia-based companies. The exchange trades 900 stocks; of those, 27 are issues of foreign companies and only 2 are of Asian companies. 
 Securities analysts said such a venture had the potential to increase trading volume on the exchange and would help investors who want to take advantage of growing economies in the Pacific Basin.
But United States securities regulations, which require the disclose of more financial information than in other countries, have often deterred foreign companies from seeking a listing on stock exchanges in the United States.
 
Seeking to Be 'a Bridge'
 In an interview, Ms. Sun, 35, said she would seek ties with the Asian agencies that regulate securities and regional stock exchanges as a way to help companies listed on the American Exchange find partners offshore. As an example, she said, a trip sponsored by the exchange and the Chinese Government in September helped introduce executives of several American companies to their counterparts in China. The trip has led to talks over possible joint ventures. "We'd like to become a bridge for that," she said.
Ms. Sun, who was born in Taipei, Taiwan, has been a senior enforcement attorney for the exchange since 1988.
Asian companies, particularly those that sell consumer goods, are becoming more enthusiastic about having their stocks listed on foreign exchanges, Ms. Sun said. "They want to be global entities and reach our consumer market," she added. A stock exchange listing helps the companies build brand awareness, she said.
 
 
Mid-sized Companies
 Foreign companies are subject to the same listing eligibility rules as United States companies. Companies that are listed on the Amex, the smallest of the nation's three major exchanges based on trading volume, are generally midsized companies.
The ability to trade the shares of foreign companies during regular business hours would be of some benefit to retail and institutional investors, said Christian Wignall, vice president of G. T. Global Mutual Funds, which manages a Japan and Pacific fund.
But because advanced telecommunications have made trading stocks in foreign markets easier for brokers, the effort by the American Exchange appears more like "a rear guard action to keep trading on their floors," Mr. Wignall said. "Markets are losing their geography."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lisa S. Y. Sun (American Stock Exchange)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (94%); CHINA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

CITY: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE NYSE MKT LLC (84%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (94%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (94%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (94%); CHINA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (75%); MUTUAL FUNDS (75%); BONDS (72%); JOINT VENTURES (71%); AWARENESS MARKETING (71%); BRANDING (63%); 

PERSON: SUN, LISA S Y; ADELSON, ANDREA

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1993



694 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1518 words

HEADLINE: U.S. TO ENCOURAGE LEGAL IMMIGRANTS TO GET CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 25

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration says it will actively encourage legal immigrants to become United States citizens, a new policy intended to counter hostility to immigrants.
The effort could enfranchise millions of people who have lived in this country for years without seeking citizenship. When immigrants become citizens, they gain the right to vote, to hold public office and to serve on juries. 
 Becoming citizens would also make it easier for them to get jobs as police officers or public school teachers because such jobs are reserved for citizens in some states, and it would make it easier for them to bring in certain close relatives.
 
10 Million Could Be Eligible
 The Immigration and Naturalization Service estimates that 10 million legal permanent residents who are not citizens live in the United States. By the turn of the century, this group may constitute one-fourth of the population in some cities, including New York, Los Angeles and Miami.
Until now, the Federal Government has not promoted naturalization, and the complexity of the process has probably discouraged many immigrants from applying for citizenship. In addition, many immigrants express ambivalent feelings, wishing to become part of United States society while also retaining roots in their homelands.
Doris M. Meissner, the new Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, said in an interview this week that the new policy was intended to defuse tensions over immigration.
 
'I Am Very Concerned'
 "We have to do as much as we can to promote naturalization," said Mrs. Meissner, who took office on Oct. 18. "I am very concerned about the anti-immigrant feelings we see in various parts of the country and in Congress. Naturalization helps counteract anti-immigrant attitudes. When people become citizens, they accept our values, and most Americans are reassured."
The new policy is also inspired by the fact that three million immigrants who gained legal status under the amnesty provisions of a 1986 law are just becoming eligible for citizenship.
Sam Bernsen, a lawyer who worked at the Immigration and Naturalization Service for more than 35 years, said the new policy had profound implications. "For the first time," he said, "the Government will affirmatively go out and encourage aliens to become citizens. They would then have a voice in our political system, with voting rights, and could run for public office."
In the coming year, Mrs. Meissner said, the Government will work with private groups to publicize the advantages of citizenship and to expedite the handling of applications. In addition, she said, without lowering standards for citizenship, she intends to simplify naturalization procedures and will seek additional money and employees to review applications.
Hispanic and Asian American groups welcomed the new emphasis on naturalization. But some lawyers, noting that the immigration service is already deluged with work, say they doubt that it can efficiently handle hundreds of thousands of new applications.
Large numbers of immigrants, especially those from Mexico, remain lawful permanent residents for many years without seeking United States citizenship. In part, that is because permanent resident aliens have many rights of citizens, including the right to work and to obtain some Government benefits.
Mexicans, for example, tend to retain close ties to their homeland after becoming permanent residents of this country. Many believe that they would jeopardize the right to own property in Mexico if they became United States citizens, but the Mexican Embassy here says that fear is unfounded.
 
'Naturalization Builds Bridges'
 Mrs. Meissner said: "We have never been very aggressive in encouraging resident aliens to naturalize. That has to change. Naturalization builds bridges between new immigrant groups and the existing society, much as labor unions, political parties and public schools have done in the past."
Charles Kamasaki, vice president of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic advocacy group, said it would be "an enormous change" if the Government actively promoted naturalization.
"The Government claims to have a neutral policy toward citizenship," he said. "But because of all the obstacles in place, it is, in effect, discouraging citizenship. Only the most resourceful, highly motivated people make it through the process."
In general, lawful permanent residents may apply for citizenship after residing in the United States for five years. They must show an ability to read, write and speak the English language and a knowledge of the history and government of the United States.
Federal officials say the Government can handle more applications if it revises the process of naturalization, so private nonprofit groups do some work now done by the Government.
In encouraging naturalization, Mrs. Meissner said, "We don't want to sacrifice or neglect other functions."
Duke Austin, a spokesman for the immigration service, said the agency now interviews all applicants to verify the information they submit in writing. Mrs. Meissner said she hoped to make such interviews an option rather than a requirement for the Government.
 
Plans to Cut Waiting Time
 "A school could certify that a person can speak English," she said. "You don't necessarily need a Government interview to do that."
The I.N.S. has 17,500 employees and a budget of $1.2 billion this year. Fewer than 10 percent of the employees work on naturalization, and less than 10 percent of the money is used for that purpose.
At present, a person applying for citizenship in New York City must wait more than seven months for an interview. In San Francisco, the wait is 10 months; in Miami, 11 months.
Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the immigration service, estimated that there are 10 million lawful permanent residents in this country. The Government, he said, has no precise count because it is not necessarily informed when immigrants die or leave the country.
In 1992, he said, 240,252 immigrants became citizens, down from 308,058 naturalized in 1991. More immigrants come to the United States from Mexico than from any other country. But only 12,880 of the people naturalized last year were Mexicans. The largest numbers were from the Philippines (28,579), Vietnam (18,357) and China (13,488).
Rick Swartz, a Washington lawyer who advises immigrant and ethnic groups, said: "It's extremely important to be promoting naturalization. If we fail to do it, there is an increasing danger of native-born Americans' saying these immigrants are not loyal to the United States. And look to the future. By the year 2000, more than one-fourth of the population of Los Angeles, New York, Miami, San Francisco, Houston and Chicago may be disfranchised because they are not citizens."
In Congress and in states like California, hard hit by recession, there have been many proposals to curb immigration, to limit asylum and to restrict immigrants' eligibility for Government benefits. Liberal Democrats have joined Republicans in urging use of National Guard troops to help patrol the border with Mexico. Gov. Pete Wilson of California has called for a constitutional amendment denying citizenship to children born in the United States to illegal immigrants.
Mr. Swartz is working with immigrant groups across the country to organize a nonpartisan campaign that will help immigrants obtain citizenship. "This process offers a tremendous potential for renewal of democratic values, a gold mine for either political party that chooses to pursue it," he said.
Demetrios G. Papademetriou, director of the immigration policy program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, said it was good for the Government to encourage naturalization because people who go through the process "develop a true stake in the country, in its economic and social progress."
But he said: "A lot of immigrants become citizens for reasons other than full commitment to their new country. They do it because they can get additional immigration benefits."
Citizens can easily bring in immediate relatives, including spouses and unmarried children under 21. Citizens at least 21 years old can also bring in their parents. There is neither a waiting period nor a numerical limit on visas for such immigrants. By contrast, the spouses and children of permanent resident aliens usually have to wait several years for permission to immigrate; their parents get no special preference.
 
'A Breath of Fresh Air'
 E. Richard Larson, legal director of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, praised the new policy, saying, "We totally agree that naturalization should be encouraged."
"Prior commissioners contributed to tensions over immigration," he said. "Doris Meissner is a breath of fresh air."
Harry P. Pachon, president of the Tomas Rivera Center in Claremont, Calif., a research institute that focuses on immigration policy, said, "For the last decade, we had immigration commissioners who gave little emphasis to the middle initial of I.N.S."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE (US) IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (83%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE (US) IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (83%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO ; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; CITIZENSHIP; PUBLIC OPINION; FORECASTS; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); ASIAN-AMERICANS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) ; FOREIGN POPULATION AND FOREIGN DESCENT GROUPS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CITIZENSHIP (97%); IMMIGRATION (95%); NATURALIZATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LAWYERS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); TRENDS (74%); INTERVIEWS (71%); POLITICS (60%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (56%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (56%); 

PERSON: MEISSNER, DORIS M (COMR); PEAR, ROBERT HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1993



695 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 2441 words

HEADLINE: Hard Times Dilute Enthusiasm for Clean-Air Laws

SERIES: Reinventing California -- A periodic look at a changing state.

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 25

 BODY:
One of the few things about life in Southern California that has improved in recent years is the air. The air is indisputably cleaner and clearer and the region's notorious alerts for lung-searing smog are all but history.
But the prospects for further progress are clouded. Just when other states are emulating California's strict controls on auto emissions and other pollutants, the state may have begun to retreat on air quality. 
 The worst economic slump since the Depression has created an audience for the argument that pollution restrictions are luxuries that Southern California cannot afford and have begun to undermine the premise that cleaned-up air is essential to the region's future economic health.
The air-quality district here has scaled back enforcement because of severe budget cuts, and the chairwoman of the state's Air Resources Board has resigned under fire from industry. The complex politics of smog are shifting. "California had been on the leading edge of air quality," said Mary D. Nichols, an Angeleno who is the new assistant administrator for air and radiation at the Environmental Protection Agency in Washington. "Now, it is leading the backlash."
The backlash comes as Southern Californians this year breathed the cleanest air in a generation. Peak levels of ozone, the most dangerous pollutant, have dropped in Los Angeles to a quarter of what they were in 1955, despite huge increases in population and traffic. Since 1985, there have been only two stage-two health alerts, when all people are advised to stay indoors.
Partly, the improvements have to do with an unusually cool summer and reduced traffic because of the recession. And, the Los Angeles Basin still suffers by far the dirtiest air of any urban area and fails to meet Federal air quality standards on more days than New York, Chicago, Houston, Denver and Pittsburgh combined. Ozone levels must be cut by half again to meet Federal and state air laws.
Under the Federal Clean Air Act, all cities must meet regular milestones until air quality meets Federal health standards for six pollutants by the year 2010. Los Angeles faces the largest task of all, and many environmentalists say the backlash against stricter enforcement could delay attainment of Federal standards. Should that happen, the Federal Government could take over smog control from local officials. Even now, the E.P.A., under court order, is drafting a plan for Southern California.
All this has put the powerful state agency that oversees smog reduction on the defensive. The agency, the South Coast Air Quality Management District, is now often vilified by businesses and some local governments as too tough. Whereas it used to send out inspectors with badges in police-like vehicles to cite polluters, it now politely calls the businesses it oversees customers and gently educates them about smog rules.
"The economy is changing priorities," conceded the district's executive officer, James M. Lents. "It is difficult to make the kind of progress we made in the late 80's. There has been a slowing of the process -- to look at more innovative ways to clean up air."
Thus, on Oct. 15, the district's board took a revolutionary turn by shelving scores of new smog-control regulations it had adopted two years ago. Instead it shifted to a market-driven plan requiring that overall emissions of two main industrial pollutants, nitrogen oxides and sulfur oxides, be reduced gradually every year but that allows individual polluters to buy and sell pollution rights among themselves, rather than conforming to detailed "command and control" regulations.
 
The Opposition
Air Quality At Crossroads
 Backers of this market plan, the first in the United States, said it was a less costly and burdensome way to achieve reductions. Some environmental groups, but by no means all, called it unworkable and likely to hasten Federal intervention.
The plan's approval came during a hectic year of these political battles:
*In the state Legislature in Sacramento, 58 bills were introduced, mainly by Orange County conservatives, to scale back smog rules and cripple the Southern California air-quality board by having the state government take control of its budget. Few of them passed, but the message was heard.
*The Air Resources Board, the state agency that has forced national changes in automobile engineering and fuel content, last month yielded to demands by angry truckers and farmers and delayed a new requirement for cleaner more expensive diesel fuel. On Nov. 18, the chairwoman of the board, Jananne Sharpless, resigned.
*The big three auto makers began an intense lobbying campaign against a California rule that they begin marketing "zero emission" vehicles -- electric cars -- by 1998.
*The Legislature defied orders from the Federal E.P.A. to act by by Nov. 15 to revamp the state's decentralized system of testing cars and trucks for excessive emissions, now handled by thousands of private service stations in a system that critics say is inefficient and rife with fraud. The E.P.A. has delayed imposing sanctions, like cutting off California's Federal highway funds, hoping for a compromise.
*The Los Angeles area air-quality district has seen its budget shrink for three years, forcing a 20 percent reduction in staff since 1990 and eight unpaid days off for employees. The recession has cut its main source of income, the permit fees it collects from the regulated industries.
*Business interests are campaigning to unseat the most pro-environment members of the district's 12-member board, including its chairman, Henry W. Weeda. In recent months, three strong clean-air proponents have departed for varying reasons.
"Until recently I felt the board had a strong commitment to clean air," said Mr. Weeda, a moderate Republican who represents Orange County cities, at a recent hearing. "But in the last year I've seen a significant amount of waning." Mr. Weeda was the target of a state law passed recently at the behest of Orange County legislators.
"When we drafted the Clean Air Act, the air pollution experts in L.A. worked with us to make sure we had a law that forced compliance and sanctions to back it up," Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, who is a chief author of the Federal law, said in an interview. "It would be ironic if they faced Federal sanctions as a result."
 
The Benefits
Years of Progress Against All Odds
 All this comes against the backdrop of extraordinary national progress in cleaning up foul air in nearly every big American city in the last two decades. It is one government program for which tangible results can be substantiated.
According to the E.P.A., emissions of nearly all major pollutants dropped substantially across the nation between 1970 and 1991. Still, the E.P.A. estimated in 1991 that 140 million Americans lived in counties in which ozone exceeded Federal health standards. And, as ever, Los Angeles was the heavyweight champion by far. The New York area was fifth, behind Los Angeles, Houston, Philadelphia and Washington.
The Los Angeles region suffers the most because of the same factors that have drawn so many millions to live here -- warm weather, beautiful mountains and the ocean. Cool air from the ocean often gets trapped under warm air in an inversion layer, trapping pollutants near the ground. The mountains serve as a container preventing the wind from blowing away the dirty air. The soup includes many ingredients, among them carbon monoxide, lead, particulate matter, sulfur oxides and ozone. Ground-level ozone, which decreases pulmonary function in people and damages plants, is formed when the sun bakes nitrogen oxides and hydrocarbons emitted by cars and industry.
Smog reached the crisis point here in the mid-1950's, when alerts regularly forced schools to shut. "L.A. Suffers Worst Smog Crisis/Another Alert Today Predicted" was the lead headline of The Los Angeles Times on Sept. 14, 1955.
Such headlines are unthinkable today. But the progress in reducing air pollution has taken a toll in an area of 11.3 million people and 9 million vehicles that is the world's largest single market for gasoline. Two-thirds of air pollution comes from motor vehicles. But the regulators are now focusing mainly on stationary sources like factories and power plants and on altering commuting patterns. After years of ever-tighter controls on vehicle and fuel technology further progress in that area has become politically and economically difficult.
 
The Costs
For Business, Perverse Effects
 The frictions and burdens are apparent. The Los Angeles area air district has found itself at odds not only with private companies, but with also local governments jealous of its prerogatives or fearful that the air rules will retard growth. The district backed off from trying to force the South Coast Plaza, a big shopping mall in Orange County, to charge a parking fee when the Costa Mesa city government balked.
In the industrial area of Stanton south of Los Angeles, All Metals Processing of Orange County has been painting and plating metals for aerospace and other manufacturers for 33 years. The company's vice president, George Derby, says the company could add a dozen or more employees to its staff of 107 if it could get permits to use more paint, which emits volatile gases.
"I am allowed to paint 17 gallons a day, and then my employees have to go home," he said. The only way to get the permits, he continued, was to change to reformulated coatings. Many of his customers cannot change because military and other contracts do not permit it, he said, so the customers go out of state. He lost another important customer, Fender Guitars, which moved to Ensenada, Mexico, rather than comply with California rules on lacquers.
Another source of resentment is the air district's rule requiring all employers with 100 or more workers to develop car-pooling plans. Many employers say it requires a costly new layer of paperwork that brings only marginal improvements.
One of the largest employers is the Los Angeles school district, with about 50,000 full- and part-time employees. With 292 school buildings scattered over a vast area, the rule has meant creating 140 commuter plans at a cost of more than $2 million a year, including $90,000 in fees to the air district.
But everyone here knows that car-pooling is something of a sham. Companies dutifully draw up plans, put up posters and offer preferential parking for car-pool riders, but most workers still drive to work alone. While companies can be fined for not drawing up plans, there is no penalty for workers who refuse to cooperate.
There have been some advances. Almost every employee at the downtown school administrative offices drove alone to work a few years ago. Now the average is 1.38 people in a car, still below the stated goal of 1.75 a car. But at what cost?
"We want to clean up the air," said Nancy K. McIlwain, the district's commuter services coordinator. "But in terms of the financial burden it places on us, we'd certainly like to see some reprieve."
Even Caltrans, the state agency that builds and operates the freeways, has failed to comply with ride-sharing rules.
"Obviously everybody supports the goal of clean air," said Peter Buffa, a member of the Costa Mesa City Council who is trying to take Mr. Weeda's seat on the board. "But if the cost is punitive, the public might say it's not worth it. We are losing businesses by the hundreds, jobs by the thousands."
Industries say that since vehicles account for about two-thirds of pollution, officials should pay more attention to smog inspections for cars, buses and trucks rather than go after furniture factories, construction sites and the like. "Put the responsibility where it should rest, with vehicle drivers," said Jeb Stuart, former executive officer of the air district who now represents the construction industry. "But when you start dealing with the public and the ability to drive cars, it becomes a political matter."
Asphalt makers, Mr. Stuart said, have already installed the best available technology to reduce nitrogen oxide emissions. If required to cut emissions by another 50 percent, he said, asphalt would have to be purchased from outside the area, meaning more trucks on the road.
Some business people have adapted to the clean-air rules. Edwin C. Laird owns the Coatings Resource Corporation, a maker of paints for plastics in Huntington Beach, and is chairman of the Small Business Coalition, representing 7,000 employers in regulatory matters. He said new rules requiring reformulation of paints have helped his business.
Even though he had to hire five chemists where one would do before, he gained an advantage because larger national paint manufacturers could not react as quickly as he could. His water-based paints are used to paint the lips on Barbie dolls, among other things. He asserts that the assault on smog rules comes mainly from extreme conservatives in Orange County and says the air district has really "turned itself around," becoming more sensitive to business.
 
The Future
Novel Solutions, New Territory
 The major accommodation to business has been the new market in pollution credits passed last month by the air-district board to replace dozens of detailed rules. Under the program, overall industrial emissions must gradually be reduced every year so that by 2003 nitrogen oxides are cut by 75 percent and sulfur oxides by 60 percent.
The plan divided environmental and business camps. Some environmentalists argued it would cause only delay, and many smaller businesses feared they could not compete.
The 390 companies covered -- those producing four or more tons a year of emissions -- could find the cheapest way to reduce emissions by trading pollution rights. Though some might find it cheaper to expand by buying rights to pollute, an overall declining cap on total emissions is meant to force progress.
Under Federal law, the states are free to devise their own plans, so long as they ultimately meet Federal health standards. Just how high the price of failure will be is uncertain, inasmuch as California has not yet been punished for failing to comply. But the 1990 amendments to the Clean Air Act invite private lawsuits to compel compliance.
And as Michael M. Hertel, manager of environmental affairs for Southern California Edison, the electric utility, put it, "There is not a whole lot of political sympathy in other parts of the country for not forcing Southern California to abide by the law."

GRAPHIC: Photos: 1993: Skies are cleaner over Los Angeles after years of battles with its notoriously dirty air. The tough controls have improved the view, but questions are clouding the future. (Marissa Roth for The New York Times); 1972: Fears are growing in California that scenes from its pollution past when dirty air blanketed Los Angeles's downtown may be coming back. As the economic downturn continues, doubts are mounting as to whether the state can still afford strict controls. (The Los Angeles Times) (pg A1)
 
Chart/Map: "Progress Against Pollution"
 Ground-level ozone, the chief ingredient in smog, has been steadily reduced in the Los Angeles area over four decades by stricter controls, many of which are listed below. Ozone levels are measured in parts per million. The Federal health standard is 0.12 parts per million. Graph tracks ozone levels in Southern Califonia since 1955.
 Maps show number of days ozone in the greater Los Angeles are reached State 1 alert levels in 1980 and 1991. State 1 alerts are days on which health officials consider the air quality unhealhful and recommend that residents avoid vigorous outdoor exercise. (pg. A3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ;ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (82%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (82%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOS ANGELES (CALIF); CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; OZONE; SMOG ; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; URBAN AREAS; AUTOMOBILES; ROADS AND TRAFFIC AIR QUALITY REGULATION (93%); SMOG (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); DEREGULATION (88%); LEGISLATION (85%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); EMISSIONS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); RECESSION (75%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%); BUDGETS (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); CITY LIFE (69%); TRENDS (69%); CITIES (68%); BOARD CHANGES (68%); BUDGET CUTS (68%); 

PERSON: REINHOLD, ROBERT ; NICHOLS, MARY PEROT CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1993



696 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-19
 
GO EAST, SOME SAY IN GERMANY
About 250,000 pioneers have abandoned the security of western Germany to seek their fortune in what they call "the wild east." A1
 
Chancellor Helmut Kohl's candidate for the presidency withdrew. A12 

ZULU CHIEF FACES TOUGH CHOICE
The new constitution in South Africa presents a tough choice to Mangosuthu G. Buthelezi, the Zulu Chief: start a campaign of resistance or try to build a new political base. A1
 
CAR BOMB AIMED AT EGYPT PREMIER
Muslim militants set off a car bomb in Egypt in an attempt to assassinate the Prime Minister, killing a girl and wounding 18 people. A6
 
Kafr al-Ilw Journal: Egypt is suffering from industrial pollution. A4
 
TROOPS WOUND 37 PALESTINIANS
Israeli troops shot and wounded 37 Palestinians in the Gaza Strip during protests set off by the killing of a militant Muslim commander. A5
 
The 5,000-year-old skeleton of a soldier is found in the West Bank. A8
 
PROBLEMS FOR RUSSIAN OIL
Western companies are trying to help Russia stop the disintegration of its oil industry, which continues at an ominous pace. A1
 
RUSSIA WARNS NATO ON THE EAST
Russia's foreign intelligence chief said that if NATO acted to incorporate Eastern Europe, Moscow would take countermeasures. A11
 
TAJIK REFUGEES REPORT ABUSE
After fleeing civil war, Tajik refugees are returning and are reporting abuse and killings by policemen, soldiers and militiamen. A3
 
Artists and political figures met in Zagreb to seek reconciliation. A18
 
Britons are wondering how two children could commit murder. A13
 
Churchill's files do not say if he knew of the attack at Pearl Harbor. A14
 
Perhaps one-third of those on the dole in Spain have jobs. A15
 
Many of Brazil's 26 governors pursue their own foreign policies. A19
 
National A20-31, B15-18
 
A PUSH FOR NEW CITIZENS
The Clinton Administration says it will encourage legal immigrants to become United States citizens, a new policy intended to counter hostility to immigrants. A1
 
SHIFTING POLITICS OF SMOG
Just when other states have begun to emulate California's strict auto and other emission controls, the Golden State may have started to retreat on air quality in the face of a punishing recession. A1
 
THANKFUL AMID FLOOD'S RAVAGES
For Ken and Sandi Crim of Plainville, Ill., Thanksgiving arrived without harvest or home. But their travails did not keep the Crims and their children from sitting down for the traditional feast. A20
 
POLITICAL RIVALS WED
James Carville, the strategist behind President Clinton's victory, and Mary Matalin, his rival from George Bush's camp, were married in New Orleans. A20
 
TRACKING THE ELUSIVE MEDFLY
The Mediterranean fruit fly has returned to Southern California, threatening many crops and rekindling a debate over how best to eradicate the stubborn pest. A23
 
BREAKTHROUGH IN CROP GENETICS
Scientists at Cornell University have isolated and cloned a gene responsible for disease resistance in a major crop: tomatoes. A25
 
A slaying that shocked Detroit is now considered an insurance plot. A20
 
A Lutheran effort to draft a statement on sexuality founders. A21
 
A historian has accused universities of an anti-religious bias. A22
 
San Francisco's homeless asked a court to block a crackdown. A27
 
A panel said school standards were not a national curriculum. B15
 
The military found remains of chemical weapons at 215 sites. B16
 
Cougars are returning to Maine's forests. B17
 
Law Page D10
 
Edward G. Grossman is the lawyer who wrote the Clinton health plan.
 
At the Bar: Should the Government have brought a law firm to its knees?
 
Metro Digest B1
 
IN HARLEM, A DAY OF THANKS
On one block in Harlem, a neighborhood saturated with hunger, disease and violence, there is gratitude for a warm apartment in the winter, a friend who gets a job, and for another birthday or anniversary. A1
 
PLAYING TOUGH IN ANY COURT
By his own admission, basketball is Mario M. Cuomo's only release from the unrelenting pressures of governing. Yet both on the court and off, he plays basketball the way he plays politics -- with sharp elbows and an intense desire to win. A1
 
Sports D1-9
 
Baseball: Yankees' possible moves are on hold. D7
Basketball: Davis is the Knicks' perfect backup. D1
Columns: Vecsey on hockey's problems D1
Football: Dolphins slip past Cowboys. D1
Bears outlast Lions as Sanders is hurt. D2
High school report.D4
Hockey: The Rangers have learned to believe in themselves. D5
Soccer: Dutch star may rejoin national team. D5
 
Business Digest D11
 
Obituaries B23
 
Anthony Burgess, writer and composer.
Albert Collins, blues guitarist.
 
Weekend C1-36, D22
 
On sampling art in sound bites. C1
A Corvette for the alter ego. C1
Changes at the Paris Opera. C3
For Children C6
Ferrari's link from race to road. C27
Theater: On Stage, and Off C2
"Red Channels." C25
Film: "El Pisito." C14
Music: Welser-Most conducts. C1
Jazz's chameleon man. C3
A victim of infectious love songs. C18
Dance: New York City Ballet. C3
Restaurants C26
Art: Works by Alex Katz. C7
Inside Art C28
Art in Review C29
Depression-era murals. C31
Many faces of Robert Mapplethorpe. C34
Book: Serial killer's portrait. C32
Television: TV Weekend D22
Home Video D22
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A34-35
 
Editorials
 
Millions without a home.
Prayer won't balance the budget.
Day of the shoppers.
Jailed by Hanoi, shut out by U.S.
 
Letters
 
A. M. Rosenthal: 3 Israeli warnings.
Anthony Lewis: An American story.
James Q. Wilson: Calvin and Hobbes and John Paul.
Bill Emmott: How Japan got mugged in Hollywood.
 
Bridge C25
 
Chronicle B20
 
Crossword C31

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (66%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); EGYPT (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); ISRAEL (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); CROATIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF A LEVY (55%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); EGYPT (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); ISRAEL (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); CROATIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (55%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TERRORISM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); WORLD WAR II (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); EMISSIONS (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); SMOG (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); ASSASSINATION (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); SHOOTINGS (69%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (69%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (66%); THANKSGIVING (63%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1993



697 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1535 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Drives the Lane as He Runs the State

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Nov. 25

 BODY:
What may be most remarkable about Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's relationship with the game of basketball is not the way the beefy 61-year-old sprints up and down the floor, or even his patented fade-away hook shot.
It is the sheer amount of time he spends plotting, strategizing and otherwise obsessing about his staff's deadly serious intramural league, as if he finds victory on the court far more satisfying than any legislative conquest. 
 While traveling in the state helicopter, Mr. Cuomo diagrams plays for his beloved gold team's upcoming games. He sends memos stressing the fundamentals to teammates before big games against the State Assembly or the state police. He awakens the captains of opposing teams with 6:30 A.M. phone calls, unnerving them with interrogations about their starting lineups.
When Dan Quayle talked trash last year about the New York welfare state, Mr. Cuomo responded by challenging him to a little one-on-one.
"If you really want to come and make a fool of yourself, bring your jock and a pair of sneakers and let's play ball," Mr. Cuomo said.
 
Driven to Win
 By his own admission, Mr. Cuomo's only release from the unrelenting pressures of governing is basketball, a sport that relaxes his mind by forcing him to focus entirely on the game. Yet both on the court and off, he plays basketball the way he plays politics -- with sharp elbows, an intense desire to win and a pursuit of every possible advantage.
In one-on-one grudge matches against legislators and state agency heads, he is not above demanding points to compensate for his age or bad back. In pregame negotiations, he often wins the right to appoint the referee. During a game several years ago against the Capitol press corps, he harangued a referee to keep an eye on the reporter who was operating the game clock.
There are days, it seems, when Mr. Cuomo dedicates as much thought to the intricate strategy of drafting players for his team as he does to outmaneuvering the Republicans in the State Senate.
Gene Sperling, a former aide, remembers the telephone calls he received one day in the fall of 1991, when rumors were flying that Mr. Cuomo was about to decide whether to run for President.
"I've been doing some thinking," said the unmistakable voice on the other end of the line.
"Yeah? Yeah?" Mr. Sperling said, virtually hyperventilating, thinking he was about to witness history.
"I think maybe we ought to change the teams," Mr. Cuomo said, quickly deflating his aide. "Do you think we ought to change the teams?"
A short time later, the phone rang again. "I thought this one would be about the presidency for sure," recalled Mr. Sperling, who is now an economic adviser to President Clinton. "He says: 'Here's what we're going to do. We're going to have three teams, and Darren Dopp, Tom Conroy and I will be captains and here's how we'll pick players.' "
The phone rang a third time. "My heart started racing again," said Mr. Sperling. "But he says, 'O.K., you know Dopp and Conroy and which players they think are good and not good. Let's go through it so I'll know who they might draft.' "
 
Getting Even
 In basketball, as in government, Mr. Cuomo thrives through stamina, hard work, and staying one move ahead of the competition. He sees the game as a metaphor for much in both life and politics. What he loves above all is to assemble a team that can beat a group of better players through hustle and teamwork.
"It teaches all those lessons of family, synergy, connectedness, all those things you fail to achieve with the Legislature," he said between games one night last week. "You can come in here on a Wednesday night and get even."
When describing his assets on the court, Mr. Cuomo, a former minor league center fielder, said he never considered himself a great athlete. "It's like the rest of my life," he said. "What I had as an athlete is that I worked harder. You might not go for that loose ball. I'd dive for it."
Pointing to the 20- and 30-year-olds he plays with, Mr. Cuomo said: "These guys should be outrunning me, they should be burying me. But they're not."
 
Question of Officiating
 Of course, now that he is Governor and, more important, self-appointed owner of his Wednesday night league, Mr. Cuomo recognizes that certain benefits come with his status.
"I'm the most formidable figure on the court because I own the league," Mr. Cuomo joked. "They all work for me and I am notoriously ungrateful to people who make me look bad."
Mr. Cuomo is not the only one to notice that basketball and politics sometimes intersect in the gymnasium at the State Police Academy in Albany, Mr. Cuomo's home court.
With his tongue planted firmly in cheek, Assemblyman Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat who lost a one-on-one game to the Governor in 1992, said his fatal error was allowing Mr. Cuomo to pick the referee -- Michael R. Doyle, a lobbyist for New York Telephone. The game was played shortly after Mr. Cuomo presented his proposed budget, which included a new 7-cent charge on telephone bills.
"All I know is I kept getting knocked down on the floor and the foul was always on me," Mr. Silver said. "It was kind of like my stomach kept hitting the Governor's elbow."
Mr. Silver said he found it interesting that shortly after the game, Mr. Cuomo amended his budget to eliminate the telephone fee.
 
The Cousy Set Shot
 The only thing old about Mario Cuomo on the basketball court is his Bob Cousy-style two-handed set shot, which the Governor, who also plays guard, uses to push shots in from beyond the 3-point line.
The Governor takes great pride in his physical condition. His idea of fun on a Saturday morning is to reduce a 30-year-old aide to heaving exhaustion after a few games of full-court one-on-one. He has told friends recently that his basketball demonstrates that he could withstand the rigors of a tough re-election campaign next year, if he decides to run.
At 6 feet and 190 pounds, Mr. Cuomo uses his shoulders and elbows generously when driving the lane for an underhanded layup. He assists teammates with no-look passes and has strong hands on defense.
After hitting a 3-pointer, Mr. Cuomo allows himself no self-congratulation. He coolly shuffles back on defense, letting his mouthguard hang nonchalantly from his tongue.
Mr. Cuomo can catalog the basketball injuries he has sustained, including torn muscles and a collection of gashes, and he has appeared at news conferences with a black eye. He nominated Bill Clinton for President with loose teeth last year after being elbowed by Lawrence G. Malone, a Public Service Commission lawyer.
"This is a kind of almost civilized rugby that we play," he said. After two hours of basketball, he takes a 20-minute shower and starts popping aspirin to soothe the pain in his back, which he injured 30 years ago while carrying a chest of drawers upstairs.
 
Tennis? Ha!
 Ever the kid from Queens, Mr. Cuomo clearly relishes the working-class imagery of basketball. And he affects a certain disdain for sports he considers more effete, like tennis and golf. Lieut. Gov. Stan Lundine, a tennis player and golfer, said he has been on the receiving end of occasional mocking. And in the days when Mr. Cuomo ridiculed George Bush, a favorite technique was to wave an imaginary tennis racquet.
Said the Governor's eldest son, Andrew: "He never bought me a tennis racquet and white shorts or took me out to the country club on Saturday and said, 'Son, we're going to learn how to swing the old 9-iron today.' "
Mr. Cuomo learned to love basketball as a teen-ager playing in Queens, where he split time between his high school team, a recreational league and a church league at St. Monica's Catholic Church.
"The gym at St. Monica's had a pitched ceiling and from some parts of the court you couldn't shoot past the beam with a set shot," he said.
His fondest memory is a recreational league game in which his team, with only four players available, defeated the division leaders. Because high school varsity players were not supposed to play recreational league ball, Mr. Cuomo used a pseudonym, Matt Denty.
He still has the headline from The Long Island Daily Press in a scrapbook: "Austin Celtics Beat Civics Using Only Four Players, Matt Denty Scores 14 Points."
Another favorite pseudonym, because of its exotic sound, was Oiram Omouc, his name spelled backwards.
 
Loves Those Knicks
 Mr. Cuomo remains an avid fan, mainly of the Knicks and St. John's, his alma mater. Televised games can often be heard in the background when he speaks by phone from the Executive Mansion, and interviews are often interrupted by shouts of "Oh, oh," or "He missed it!"
His favorite players are cerebral types, like Bob Cousy and Bill Bradley, and he never stops studying the game or offering tips to those who have spent fewer years on the court.
"One Saturday I was at home and he called and said, 'Turn on the TV; Indiana is playing,' " recalled Robert E. McGlarry, an assistant to the Governor and the captain of Mr. Cuomo's gold team. "He said: 'You see what they're doing, you see how they're passing the ball? That's what we should be doing.' Then he hung up."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Albany, stamina and hard work can pay off in more than one arena. (David Jennings for The New York Times) (pg. A1)
 
Chart/Diagram/Photo: "Scouting Report: The Cuomo File" shows the Governor's game plan, which stresses fundamentals, preparation and the occasional elbow. At a reporter's request, he diagramed one of his favorite set plays.
 
VITAL STATISTICS
 Age: 61
 Height: 6 feet
 Weight: 190 pounds
 Position: Guard
 Shoots: Right
 
STRENGTHS
 3-point set shot
 Fade-away hook shot
 Unselfish passer
 Drives the lane well with either hand
 Strong hands help with defense and rebounding
 Great wind for an old guy.
 
Weaknesses
 No jump shot
 Schedule makes him unreliable on game day
 Can't help boasting of victories, and uses unlimited access to television and radio to do so. (Photograph by David Jennings for The New York Times) (pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION BASKETBALL (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ATHLETES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HELICOPTERS (70%); POLITICS (69%); POLICE FORCES (54%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); SACK, KEVIN JAMES DANFORTH 'DAN' QUAYLE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1993



698 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
Volkswagen reached agreement with the metal workers union on a plan to reduce costs by putting production workers at six German plants on a four-day workweek and cutting their pay nearly 10 percent. The plan reflects growing acceptance in Europe of the idea of shorter workweeks. [Page D11.] 
 Mexico announced a loosening of foreign investment rules, extending to the rest of the world many of the rights that will be accorded to U.S. and Canadian concerns under Nafta. [D11.]
 Russia's oil industry continues to disintegrate at an ominous pace. Western companies are working, sometimes well by well, to shore up vital production. [A1.]
 U.S. aerospace companies are trying to help Russia pursue a piece of the market for commercial aircraft. [D11.]
 After the Berlin wall fell, more than a million eastern Germans emigrated to western cities while a smaller and less visible group of pioneers moved in the opposite direction to seek their fortunes in "the wild east." This mixed breed of Germans has put up with hardships unknown in the west, and their combination of experiences gives them unusual insight into life on both sides. [A1.]
 About 2.6 million Spaniards collect jobless benefits, but Spain's main business confederation believes at least a third of those now on the dole have jobs. [A15.]
 
The Economy
The Administration will actively encourage legal immigrants to become citizens, a policy intended to counter hostility to immigrants. The effort could enfranchise millions of people who have lived in the U.S. for years without seeking citizenship. [A1.]
 Tourism officials say Florida is unlikely to suffer the economic disaster foreseen as recently as two months ago, after a series of killings of foreign tourists. [D11.]
The air in Southern California has become cleaner, and the region's smog alerts are all but history. But just as other states are emulating its strict controls on pollutants, California may have begun to retreat on air quality. [A1.]
President Clinton's choice to head Resolution Trust said he was considering withdrawing because the Senate was refusing to hold a hearing on his nomination. [B18.]
Cornell scientists have isolated and cloned a gene responsible for disease resistance in a major crop, tomatoes, using a technology developed for the Human Genome Project. [A25.]
 
Companies
Sara Lee has managed to copy in Europe its successful American strategy of extending brand names. [D12.]
There is finger-pointing in the Paramount camp about whether the company's board should have held a crucial meeting on Nov. 15. A Delaware court ruled that at the meeting, the board did not give proper consideration to a takeover bid from QVC Network. [D13.]
Whether the Delaware ruling survives a review by the Delaware Supreme Court depends on how the higher court interprets previous cases pitting the discretion of corporate boards against the rights of shareholders. Lawyers for QVC and its bidding rival, Viacom, will be arguing before what many experts consider the most knowledgeable judges in the country on corporate law. [D11.]
 
Markets
Oil prices fell to five-year lows in Europe after OPEC nations could not agree to cut output by even a token amount. A subsequent communique strengthened an impression that OPEC was abdicating its pricing role and returning to a fight for market share. [D14.]
 Japanese stock prices tumbled today, with the Nikkei index of 225 issues losing almost 3 percent of its value and closing below the 17,000 level. In Europe yesterday, the dollar made modest gains. U.S. markets were closed for Thanksgiving. [D14.]
 
Today's Columns
A seemingly routine restructuring announcement at Baxter International included hints that it might sell stakes in some of its exciting but risky new-product projects. Market Place. [D14.]
 Since realism has become one of the hottest creative trends on Madison Avenue, an industry of sorts has developed around it, dedicated to delivering what it hopes the public will perceive as purity amid a world of puffery. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D15.]
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: QVCN (NASDAQ) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (60%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); SPAIN (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (91%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: QVC INC (60%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); SPAIN (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (91%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS WORK WEEK (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (79%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (79%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); IMMIGRATION LAW (75%); TAKEOVERS (75%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (73%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (69%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (69%); CITIZENSHIP (68%); AIR QUALITY (68%); CLONING (67%); SMOG (67%); LAWYERS (66%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (65%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (64%); SCIENCE NEWS (60%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); GENOMICS (60%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1993



699 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: In Spain, the Unemployed Are Just Too Busy

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MADRID, Nov. 25

 BODY:
With around 23 percent of its labor force officially out of work, Spain has the highest unemployment rate in the European Community. But while 2.6 million men and women are collecting benefits, it is hard to find anyone sitting at home with nothing to do.
Over the last 18 months, as economic activity has slumped and the number of unemployed has soared, jobs taken by people on Government assistance have become one of Spain's few growth industries. Unemployment fraud may not be new, but Spain's main business confederation believes that at least one-third of those on the dole now have jobs. 
 Like the underground economy, which has tax evasion as its main feature, the phenomenon is difficult to measure. Yet in this case, it helps to explain why, with almost one in four people said to be out of work, Madrid and other Spanish cities are not crawling with beggars and homeless people.
The evidence tends to be anecdotal but is nonetheless compelling. Amando de Miguel, a sociologist who supervises house-to-house polls, said it was rare to find a man at home in the daytime. "We only have about 8 percent unemployed in any given poll," he said of such canvassing.
Rafael, a handyman who boasts that he has also "placed" two of his sons on the dole, is perhaps a typical example of someone who is unemployed and at the same time runs a flourishing home-repair business.
Maria, a 25-year-old bilingual secretary, has a sister living in New York, and for the last 18 months she has been collecting her sister's unemployment benefits. "When she wanted me to extend it, I refused," Maria said. "It's risky, and besides, I wanted to go on unemployment myself."
There are stories of men lining up at banks to collect their benefits and complaining about the long wait because "I have a job to go to." And of women collecting their husband's Government check because "he couldn't come since he's at work at this hour."
The Socialist Government has paid little heed to these abuses, aware perhaps that they ease social tensions at a time of economic recession. Instead it has embarked on an ambitious plan to modernize Spain's labor market that it hopes will stimulate job creation.
The Government wants to make it easier for workers to be hired and fired, to reduce severance payments and to impose wage controls. If Spain is to become competitive, it has concluded, the cost of labor must be reduced.
But thousands of workers, determined not to surrender privileges without a fight, crowded the streets of Madrid today in protest marches described as a rehearsal for a general strike in mid-December. Still, with a deadlock in talks between unions, management and Government, the bill changing the labor code seems certain to be sent to Congress next week.
Unemployment fraud may still be difficult to eliminate because, as one economist put it, "a culture of the dole has developed." In the backward southern regions of Andalusia and Estremadura, for instance, the Government supports 200,000 peasants so long as they work 60 days a year. Some men have moved south just to profit from the system.
In Madrid, it is not uncommon for women who want to spend more time with their children to ask to be dismissed from their jobs so they can go on Government assistance -- and they agree in exchange not to take severance pay from their employers.
Andres, a partner in a struggling engineering company, said he and his partners take turns working for six months -- the minimum required to obtain unemployment benefits -- and then receive the payments for 18 months before being rehired. "It acts as a supplement to keep us going through hard times," he said.
Marcos Pena, Secretary General of the Labor Ministry, said that the Government hoped to restore order to the labor market, but that for now it could only guess the true level of unemployment.
"We continue to receive workers from Portugal, where unemployment is supposedly only 5 percent," he said, "so they must be finding jobs somewhere."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SPAIN (98%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MADRID, SPAIN (93%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SPAIN SPAIN (98%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (93%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; TAX EVASION; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); MEN (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX FRAUD (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); RECESSION (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); MULTILINGUALISM (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (77%); SEVERANCE PAY (77%); TRENDS (76%); HOMELESSNESS (73%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); HOME REMODELING (72%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (65%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: RIDING, ALAN

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1993



700 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Fails to Approve Output Cuts

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: VIENNA, Nov. 25

 BODY:
Oil prices fell to five-year lows in Europe today after the 12 OPEC nations could not agree to cut output by even a token amount.
In London, futures for Brent Blend crude oil fell to $14.18 a barrel. That was down almost a dollar from Wednesday and the lowest level since November 1988. A year ago, oil traded at about $20. Markets were closed in New York today for the Thanksgiving holiday. 
 "OPEC has abrogated its cartel responsibilities -- and the consumer smiles," said Peter Gignoux, head of the London energy desk for Smith Barney Shearson.
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries was founded in Baghdad, Iraq, in 1960 to win a bigger return for third world oil producers. But prices, allowing for inflation, are weaker than at any time since before the 1973 Arab oil embargo.
 
 
Recurring Oil Gluts
 The embargo helped OPEC to grab control of pricing from Western multinational companies. But in recent years, prices have fallen as a result of recurring oil gluts.
In two days of talks in Vienna this week, OPEC oil ministers considered a modest cut of 500,000 barrels a day from their agreed-upon ceiling of 24.5 million barrels. Such a cut, on paper, would have been in line with downward revisions of forecasts for oil amid a general economic slump in much of the world.
But huddled in the luxury hotel suite of the conference president, Abdullah al-Attiyah, the oil minister of Qatar, the ministers decided such a cutback would not be enough to deter speculators from making new raids to drive prices down in the futures markets.
A bigger cut of up to 1.5 million barrels daily was then discussed but also rejected. It would have been so big that members might be unlikely to honor their new quotas, Gholamreza Agazadeh, the oil minister of Iran, explained.
A subsequent communique strengthened an impression that OPEC was abdicating its pricing role and returning to a fight for market share with echoes of 1986, when a production free-for-all took prices below $10.
The communique said, "The conference does not consider that OPEC alone should continue to bear the burden of balancing supply and demand and believes that all producers should join in this effort."
OPEC subsequently made clear that its ire was directed at Britain and Norway, which recently raised their North Sea production to record levels.
The OPEC producers do not see why they should curb their output and let others poach their buyers, said OPEC's Secretary General, Subroto, an Indonesian.
Ali Ahmed al-Baghli, the oil minister of Kuwait, said that in his view the official OPEC target price of $21 was now "history." But he said he thought that even without any new production cuts, the prices had hit bottom.
The meeting was noteworthy for the silence of Saudi Arabia, the most powerful force in OPEC. Hisham M. Nazer, the Saudi oil minister, made no comments to the assembled reporters.

GRAPHIC: Photo: OPEC producers do not see why they should curb their output and let other oil exporters poach their buyers, OPEC's Secretary General, Subroto, said yesterday. He spoke with reporters in Vienna. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); AUSTRIA (91%); UNITED STATES (88%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); NORWAY (79%); IRAQ (79%); QATAR (79%); KUWAIT (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NORTH SEA (79%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (71%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (57%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); AUSTRIA (91%); UNITED STATES (88%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); NORWAY (79%); IRAQ (79%); QATAR (79%); KUWAIT (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NORTH SEA (79%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (71%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES; FUTURES TRADING PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CARTELS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); FUTURES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (86%); OIL EXTRACTION (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (76%); MARKET SHARE (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); THANKSGIVING (56%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (53%); 

PERSON: SUBROTO, IBUNN (DR)

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1993



701 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 3062 words

HEADLINE: Deciphering State's Takeover of Jersey City Schools

SERIES: Remaking Schools: New Jersey's Challenge -- First of two articles.

BYLINE: By LARRY OLMSTEAD

 BODY:
Four years ago, convinced that the Jersey City schools were hopelessly mismanaged, the State of New Jersey seized control of the city's school system, the second largest in the state. Since then, high-ranking school officials have been dismissed, curriculums rewritten, schools painted and repaired. In one instance, a high school swimming pool, once filled with furniture and debris, was returned to use.
To some, the flurry of changes signaled the seeds of a real turnaround for Jersey City, where more than 40 percent of children entering high school failed to graduate and where standardized test scores were among New Jersey's lowest. 
 But in Jersey City, where 30,000 pupils attend 36 public schools, many people feel the results have been mixed.
Some major goals remained unfulfilled. Low student achievement was a prime reason for the takeover, yet test scores have shown little gain. At best, the dropout rate has improved modestly; each year, the district continues to lose one of every six or seven high school students.
"There was the perception that, 'Guess what, the state's here. Miracles will happen,' " said Raymond O'Brien, an accountant and insurance executive who had been so upbeat about the state's arrival that he joined its advisory school board.
"Because they were appointed -- or anointed -- they thought they could do anything," Mr. O'Brien said. "Not in this town." Now the state Board of Education is on the brink of applying this most drastic remedy to Newark, its largest school system. Under Gov. Jim Florio, a takeover had seemed likely. What difference his defeat by Christine Todd Whitman, his Republican opponent, will make remains to be seen. Mrs. Whitman has not said what she would do, but according to her spokesman Carl Golden, she believes the takeover process has become too politicized and hopes that state and local school officials can work out their differences.
(And the Governor-elect has some distinct ideas about Jersey City as well. She supports a pilot school-voucher program, which would give parents much greater choice in deciding where to send their children, whether to public or private school.)
By most accounts, the state's appointees have failed to achieve another fundamental goal -- preparing Jersey City residents to take back their schools.
The state postponed school board elections this year that were to begin the return to local control. The law requires the state to run a seized district for at least five years; state officials already have indicated they will stay two or three years longer.
So the questions linger. Can the takeover truly lead to bottom-line improvements in student achievement? Or does one bureaucracy, perhaps more efficient and less corrupt, simply replace another, substituting its own politics and its own inertia?
Kabili Tayari, vice chairman of the advisory board, noted that since the state moved in, "people have been forced to come to work."
"There is better fiscal management," he said. "But the crucial thing is supposed to be academic achievement. There has been no improvement."
State officials dispute that, saying test results this year show some gains. They argue, with some merit, that they have laid the groundwork for progress in student achievement. And they face external obstacles, not least of which is New Jersey's endemic problem of unequal financing for school districts. Many Jersey City educators say they need hard cash to back up the rallying cry of "Kids First."
A success is critical for Jersey City, an ethnically diverse municipality of nearly a quarter-million that could soon rival Newark as the state's largest. This city with notable pockets of poverty is trying to give birth to an economic renaissance. It badly needs a better-educated work force.
 
The Ultimate Sanction
 The takeover is being watched by educators and politicians who have struggled for a generation to find the key to equal education for all of New Jersey's children. It has also drawn attention around the nation, as the first in which a state seized both administrative and classroom control of a solvent school district. Takeover is the ultimate sanction of a monitoring process that, in the absence of more money, has become the state's principal means of influencing change in urban districts.
State officials say proudly that they have restored stability. But they call it unrealistic to expect a quick turnaround in a system whose pathologies are decades deep.
That view draws sympathy in many quarters, but not all. Some people pose a more demanding question: If the state is going to intervene and wrest control from local authorities, if it is going to fire the whole school board, dump the superintendent and his or her cabinet, and exercise increased authority over budgeting -- if it is going to impose such extraordinary measures, then aren't parents and children in Jersey City entitled to expect extraordinary results?
 
The Record
Weighing Success Proves Difficult
 The reality is that Jersey City schools have made progress, but slowly, and with great effort.
Holly Ann Wojciechowski, the advisory board chairwoman, said the takeover team has done an excellent job. But so far, she said, "I really think the classroom teacher in there with the kids has been the least affected."
When asked about accomplishments, state officials often cite operational improvements, providing basic student needs that were, in their view, often inexplicably lacking and bred a climate of failure.
At William L. Dickinson High School, for instance, one of the first achievements that the state takeover team mentions is the swimming pool. What has changed is that it is open for swimming. Before the state Board of Education moved in, it was filled with furniture and debris, a giant storage area.
But the state has found it easier to fill the swimming pool than to raise math and reading scores.
For sure, academic progress is mentioned -- for instance, more advance placement courses in the high schools, including Dickinson, and the development of a science and technology magnet program there.
Citywide, attendance has risen above 90 percent the last two years, meeting the state standard. And enrollment is up 9 percent since the state moved in.
But when asked to name the three biggest achievements at Dickinson since takeover, Francis X. Dooley, the new principal, cited the district's student code of conduct, which has led to improved discipline; the "house" concept, in which high schools are broken into smaller administrative units, and a multiphase renovation that is bringing badly needed improvements to the 87-year-old school.
Indeed, upgrading operations has been a priority. Most of Jersey City's schools are old -- some from the 19th century -- and many classrooms went unpainted for 30 years.
And cleaning up personnel practices has been as much a priority as cleaning buildings. Traditionally, assignment as a teacher or principal depended on who supported whom in a mayoral election.
"Now it's on your ability. It's not who you know," said Mr. Dooley, one of 20 principals appointed since the takeover.
But what about the students?
According to Tom Favia, president of the teachers union, the Jersey City Education Association, "If you base everything on test scores, I'd have to say the gains are marginal."
Scores jumped between 1986 and 1989 on the High School Proficiency Test, given to gauge ninth graders' reading, math and writing abilities. For instance, only 37.4 percent of students met the state standard in reading in 1986, versus 87.5 percent in 1989.
But for two years after the takeover, results remained about the same. Reading actually fell, to 86.4 percent in 1990 and 84.7 percent in 1991. A similar trend is apparent with an achievement test given to third and sixth graders.
On another exam, the Early Warning Test, given to eighth graders, results have been better. The number of students in Level III, the danger zone, has dropped the last two years in reading, math and writing.
 
No Overnight Success
 Still, in writing -- where the results were best -- one in four students was judged this year as needing remedial instruction.
"People are anxious for overnight success, not the least of them being us," said Eloise Forster, the Assistant Superintendent for Educational Services. "But to really get down to the nitty-gritty," operational improvements need to be in place, "and then you need to get into the classroom."
That effort will intensify this year, said Jeffrey Graber, executive assistant to the superintendent.
Ms. Forster sees an improvement in student achievement as a 5- to 10-year proposition involving many factors -- improved attendance, a lower dropout rate, better discipline and attention to students' personal and social needs.
One place where the formula seems to work is the Ezra Nolan school, Public School 40, on Gates Avenue. Inside, the school's location -- near one of Jersey City's toughest housing projects -- seems irrelevant. Halls and classrooms are orderly. Test scores have risen.
The school got a new principal last year, S. Michael Littlejohn, who had been passed over previously despite being a highly regarded administrator. Mr. Littlejohn challenges his students to contribute to the school and the community. Last year, eighth graders transformed a debris-strewn, unkempt school courtyard into a park. They also worked with children from a school for the blind.
 
Reaching the Youngest
 Mr. Littlejohn has stressed the early childhood program, convincing his pre-kindergarten and kindergarten teachers to tailor instruction to fit each child.
Reaching children while they are very young is a cornerstone of the district's program. Citywide, full-day kindergarten, which before the takeover was offered in just 14 classrooms, now is in 45. Before the takeover, the district had no pre-K program; now there are 25 pre-K classrooms. Two of the pre-Ks are in housing projects.
Jim Aumack, a teacher who is P.S. 40's math specialist, said that, on balance, the takeover had improved communication with central office. It had opened more access to resources and supplies. Like many others in the district, he stressed that Jersey City harbored good teachers and programs even before the state's action.
Naomi Ramirez, 14, who graduated last June from P.S. 40, said things had improved at that school. "We have more activities; we have a new math program," a curriculum rewritten by teachers to stress collaborative learning -- children working together to solve problems.
Even with all that, Miss Ramirez and a half-dozen friends all said Jersey City residents should run Jersey City schools. Local people would know what was best.
 
Wading In
Daring Leader Meets Obstacles
 In 1989, about 100 formal applicants turned out for the job of state district superintendent in Jersey City. It went to Elena J. Scambio, then 42, a Newark native, who worked for the state as the Essex County School Superintendent and as coordinator for New Jersey's northern region.
In Jersey City, supporters and detractors alike described Ms. Scambio as a person who gets things done.
That quality was never more evident than in 1991, when she sued her own boss, John Ellis, then Commissioner of Education, over $11 million in disputed financing. She appeared before the state Board of Education and vowed: "I will not lay anyone off. I will close the district, and I hate to say this, I will give it back to you all." She got the money.
Ms. Scambio issued an ambitious list of objectives, but takeover team members soon had all they could do simply coping with nuts-and-bolts administrative issues.
For instance, the team discovered that personnel records for the district's 4,000 employees were kept not on computer but on 3-by-5-inch index cards. Many were a decade out of date.
 
Benefits for the Dead
 Fiscal mismanagement was uncovered, including more than $3 million in medical benefits for 250 former employees -- three of them dead -- who were no longer entitled to coverage.
With attention diverted to such issues, some major initiatives have remained unfulfilled. Early on, Ms. Scambio was a strong advocate of "school-based management," under which decision-making is pushed down from central staff to principals, parents and teachers. So far, only two schools have adopted the program, although Mr. Graber said more should this year.
And bitterness lingers over the events that led to the takeover.
Many, then and now, felt the state's monitoring was intended more to punish districts than to help them, and that the state had options short of a total takeover -- for instance, working side-by-side with local officials until the district attained certification, or taking control of business operations only, as it did last April in the Trenton district.
Ms. Scambio and her team were resented as outsiders. Some began calling the district "Montclair East," referring to the ethnically mixed Essex County community whose schools have won accolades.
Ms. Scambio is close to Mary Lee Fitzgerald, who ran the Montclair district for 11 years before being sworn in as State Education Commissioner in January. One of Ms. Fitzgerald's early moves was to name Ms. Scambio as Assistant Commissioner in charge of urban districts and field operations in New Jersey, which allows her to continue to oversee the Jersey City and Paterson takeovers.
Ms. Scambio lives in Montclair. So does Victor Demming, her business manager in Jersey City, who succeeded her as State District Superintendent.
With the wariness and resistance, the team felt under close scrutiny. "The feeling was, you could not make a mistake," Ms. Forster said.
But mistakes were made. Principals complained bitterly about the evaluations process, which Ms. Scambio acknowledged could have been better. And as Ms. Scambio made appointments -- and hired and promoted more women and minorities -- many district employees complained that she and her team favored outsiders. In 1992, Ms. Scambio changed procedures to give district employees the first shot at openings.
 
Upset Board Members
 Perhaps the low point came late last year, when Ms. Scambio proposed taking over an unoccupied 20-story waterfront condominium and making it an academic campus that would include schools for 2,900 students and new offices for the Board of Education.
Board members were upset because she first mentioned the so-called Portside proposal not to them, but at a state board meeting. And community residents questioned how the neighborhood and its traffic would bear up to the addition of five new schools.
Ms. Scambio said, "I threw it out as a vision . . . a magnificent place for poor urban kids to go to school." She said it would not be imposed -- it's something the community as a whole must support.
At the moment, the proposal is on the back burner.
The advisory school board was to be an important conduit for the community, but its performance has been uneven.
By law, it cannot vote, except on curriculum issues. As far as the community's perception is concerned, "I said to someone I know that I had been elected chair, and they said, 'Oh, are you on that toothless tiger committee?' " Ms. Wojciechowski said.
Arthur Andersen & Company, an accounting and consulting firm, hired by the state Legislature to monitor the takeover, praised the takeover team but said community outreach was lacking and the advisory board was not involved enough.
State Senator John H. Ewing, a Bedminster Republican and chairman of the Joint Committee on the Public Schools, said Jersey City has shown progress, and legislation can address some remaining problems.
"We're looking to rewrite the takeover law and tighten it up," he said. "We're going to define transition and what steps you take."
 
Financing
Gap in Spending Compounds Woes
But fixing those provisions won't help one of the biggest problems -- a lack of financing.
According to the Consortium for Policy Research in Education at Rutgers University, Jersey City in the 1992-93 school year spent an average of $6,144 per pupil. That is $2,065 below the average of the state's 108 wealthiest districts. That gap has widened since 1989-90, when Jersey City was spending at a rate $1,344 beneath the wealthiest areas.
The shortfall is felt even more deeply given the task faced by teachers in Jersey City, where median household income of $30,917 is lowest in metropolitan New York. Three of 10 of the city's residents were born in foreign countries; nearly two-thirds of students qualify for bilingual or compensatory education, or both.
Most suburban districts do not operate full adolescent health clinics in high schools, as Jersey City does at Dickinson and Snyder, or spend $3.6 million on security, as Jersey City did last year. And although teen-age pregnancies afflict both urban and suburban communities, most districts do not run an expectant mothers program that, like Jersey City's, serves 250 students a year.
"If Elena Scambio could take children home at night, that would change things," said Mr. Aumack, the math teacher.
Ms. Scambio said more money was needed for urban districts, but from fresh sources. "I think taxpayers in this state have had it."
Over all, Ms. Scambio said if she could do it again, she would start with a team of perhaps 15 people, instead of four. The bigger team would have included Jersey City school veterans to help build the community support to ease the transition back to local control.
That transition most likely will take two or three years longer than the original five-year projection, she said. "Change in social systems takes longer than five years," she said.
Even among the takeover team's supporters, the issue of when it departs (and on what terms) is a source of uneasiness. This is especially so given that the takeover is in effect self-policed, monitored by the same state Department of Education that controls the district.
"The law doesn't say, 'When you reach XYZ goal, you're out of here,' " Ms. Wojciechowski said. "Until someone tells me what it is that we're supposed to accomplish, I can't tell you whether we've met it."
NEXT: The continuing struggle over equity between cities and suburbs.

GRAPHIC: Photos: While the state's takeover of public schools in Jersey City has had limited success in many areas, the progress at the Ezra Nolan school, has been clear. In Midla Sanchez's kindergarten class, top, the school's cleanliness drive has been an aid in the classroom. Older students, bottom, are offered the chance to make products and then devise strategies to sell them. (Photographs by William E. Sauro/The New York Times) (pg. B6)
 
Graph: "TEST SCORES: Progress Stalls in Jersey City Schools" shows the percentage of Jersey City students passing each part of the statewide High School Proficiency Test, from '86-'91. (Source: New Jersey Department of Education) (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JERSEY CITY (NJ); NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; DROPOUTS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); RANKINGS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); APPOINTMENTS (88%); SCHOOL BOARDS (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CURRICULA (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CITIES (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (73%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (73%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (72%); SWIMMING (71%); SPORTS (71%); BOARD CHANGES (70%); POLITICS (68%); 

PERSON: OLMSTEAD, LARRY

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1993



702 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1436 words

HEADLINE: A New Course for Russian Aerospace

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW

 BODY:
Four years ago, the Ilyushin Design Bureau, one of Russia's largest aerospace companies, received a proposal from a group that included Armand Hammer and Robert Maxwell for a project to combine Western and Russian aviation technology in a new commercial jetliner.
Both Mr. Hammer and Mr. Maxwell died, and the proposal never came to fruition. But from those unlikely beginnings has grown the first large-scale attempt by aerospace companies from the United States to help Russia pursue a piece of the worldwide market for commercial aircraft. 
 Under the venture, Ilyushin is equipping a modified version of its new 375-passenger long-range jumbo jet, the Il-96M, with engines from Pratt & Whitney, and avionics -- the electronic brains of the plane -- from the Collins Air Transport division of Rockwell International. A prototype has been completed and is flying, and work on the first production plane is under way.
 By combining a Russian airframe with advanced American technology, the companies said they would be able to sell a plane that meets Western standards.
 
U.S. Companies See Advantages
 And because they can take advantage of low Russian labor costs -- about $1 an hour for aerospace workers, compared with $20 an hour or more in the United States -- they are selling the plane for less than $70 million, a saving of 30 percent over its most direct Western competitor, the A-340 from the European consortium Airbus Industrie, which lists for more than $100 million.
For Rockwell and Pratt & Whitney, a division of the United Technologies Corporation, the project is a chance to get a toehold in what they believe can become a fast-growing market for planes in the former Soviet Union. As any passenger will attest, most of the planes now flying the region are aging, expensive to operate and potentially unsafe.
Aircraft makers expect a surge in demand, especially as domestic air traffic grows. Hundreds of upstart carriers, most of them tiny, are already competing for passengers who once had no choice but Aeroflot, the state-owned airline that now flies only international routes.
For Russia, the venture is a chance to slow the shrinkage of its aerospace industry, which employs nearly a million people. Like its counterpart in the United States, Russian aerospace has been buffeted by a sharp decline in demand for military and commercial aircraft. Industrywide production in Russia has fallen to a few hundred planes a year from as many as 1,500 a year five years ago.
"This is a pioneering project, and one that the Russian Government has paid a lot of attention to,' said Vladimir A. Belyakov, Ilyushin's marketing director. "We wish to show the possibilities of these two countries working together in such a sensitive and important sector."
Few fields received more support over the years from the former Soviet Government than aerospace, and although financing has dried up, Russia has retained its reputation in the field. The Clinton Administration recently concluded an agreement to include Russia in the building of the planned space station. Exploiting its cost advantage, Russia has broken into the business of launching commercial satellites for Western companies with its Proton rocket.
Western executives said Russia should also be able to compete in commercial aircraft manufacturing, especially if early ventures like Ilyushin's are sufficiently successful to encourage further alliances. Already nearly every major aircraft maker and subcontractor is exploring possible deals in Russia.
But the success of Ilyushin's venture is far from assured. There is intense worldwide competition from well-established rivals like Airbus, the Boeing Company and the McDonnell Douglas Corporation. Airlines outside of the former Soviet Union are likely to be wary of buying aircraft from a manufacturer that does not have a worldwide parts and service network.
 
Political Instability
 Moreover, the primary targets for Ilyushin's sales pitch -- the airlines of Russia and the former Soviet republics, and carriers in emerging economies in Asia -- have little money available. And the continuing political instability and cloudy economic outlook in Russia have scared off much foreign investment.
Some big aerospace companies are taking a cautious approach to Russia. Boeing recently opened a technology research center in Moscow to get a glimpse into work being done by Russian engineers and scientists. Boeing is looking at pioneering Russian research into fields like fuel for use in extremely cold environments and the development of strong, lightweight metal alloys.
But Michael Friend, the center's director, said the company was not yet ready to make any large-scale investments here.
"The C.I.S. is such a volatile market right now that it's impossible to say where it's going to go," Mr. Friend said. "It's potentially a huge market with a large need for new aircraft over the next 20 years. For the moment, we're going to cooperate on the level of the research center and see where it goes."
But Ilyushin and its American partners on the Il-96M say the risks are worth the potential rewards.
 
 
Looking 25 Years Ahead
 "It's a slowly emerging market, but it's going to be a vast market, and the time to enter it is now," said C. Marshall Robinson, the manager of Pratt & Whitney's Russian operation, which is investing $75 million in the program. "If you want to be here 25 years from now, you need to be here today."
In adding avionics and engines from the United States to Ilyushin's airframes, the venture is addressing the key concerns of potential customers: efficiency, reliability and access to parts and service.
By adding Collins avionics, for example, the Il-96M is able to fly with a cockpit crew of two, instead of three as in previous Russian jetliners. Pratt & Whitney's PW2000 engines typically run for up to 8,000 hours without any need for an overhaul; current Russian engines require a complete servicing every 2,500 hours or so.
The venture already has a firm order for five aircraft from a Dutch leasing company, Partnairs N.V., and another 20-plane order from Aeroflot. The venture expects planes to be delivered to airlines starting in 1996, following certification by Russian aviation authorities. (To speed the process of certifying the plane for international use, the United States Federal Aviation Administration will conduct its review concurrently with its Russian counterpart.)
 
 
A Market for 200 Planes
 In the long run, said Aleksandr I. Roubtsov, a senior partner at Ernst & Young Vneshconsult in Moscow, there should be a market for about 200 of the planes. The Moscow branch of the accounting and consulting firm is helping Ilyushin prepare itself for free-market competition.
Ilyushin, one of five major design bureaus that develop commercial and military aircraft, receives high marks from its Western partners for its technical proficiency and its rapid adaptation to a competitive marketplace.
"Ilyushin is an absolute joy to work with," said William H. Abshire, the head of operations in the former Soviet Union for Collins, which is investing $30 million in the program.
But Ilyushin by its own account still has a long way to go to avoid the extinction that faces companies in many industries across Russia as the nation shifts to a market economy. The company covers just 35 percent of its expenditures through self-generated revenues, Mr. Belyakov of Ilyushin said, with the rest still being made up by the Government.
 
 
A First: Sales and Marketing
 Working with Ernst & Young, Ilyushin is just drawing up plans to create a sales and marketing organization, a novelty for a company whose output was always dictated by central planners. For the first time, it is training its designers to think, as their Western counterparts do, in terms of a plane's total life cycle cost -- that is, the cost not only of producing it but of operating and servicing it over the long run.
It must also weather a tricky merger with the organization that builds the planes it designs. Typical of the Soviet system, design and manufacturing were always considered separate endeavors and were overseen by different bureaucracies.
Ilyushin is looking at privatization down the road, perhaps with a Western partner taking a stake. To address concerns about the ability of potential airline customers to pay for planes, it is setting up a leasing division.
"We are responding to the requirements of the new market economy," Mr. Belyakov said. "There is no doubt that Ilyushin will survive."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ilyushin Design Bureau, a Russian aerospace company, is equipping one of its passenger jets with engines from Pratt & Whitney, a division of United Technologies, and avionics from Rockwell International. (United Technologies)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UTX (NYSE) (91%); AFLT (RTS) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (91%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: ILYUSHIN (RUSSIAN CO); ROCKWELL INTERNATIONAL CORP; PRATT & WHITNEY; COLLINS AVIONICS AIRBUS SAS (91%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (91%); PRATT & WHITNEY (56%); AEROFLOT RUSSIAN AIRLINES OAO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ILYUSHIN (RUSSIAN CO); ROCKWELL INTERNATIONAL CORP; PRATT & WHITNEY; COLLINS AVIONICS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS; AEROSPACE INDUSTRIES AND SCIENCES; DESIGN AIRLINES (90%); AVIONICS (90%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (89%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); JOINT VENTURES (70%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W ARMAND HAMMER (74%); ROBERT IAN CHARLES MAXWELL (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1993



703 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Mexico Planning to Loosen Foreign Investment Rules

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Nov. 25

 BODY:
Mexico announced a long-awaited loosening of its restrictions on foreign investment today, extending to the rest of the world many of the rights that will be accorded to American and Canadian concerns under the North American Free Trade Agreement.
Under new foreign investment legislation sent to the Congress by President Carlos Salinas de Gortari, Mexico will allow foreign companies to own coastal and border property for the first time. The law, which is expected to be approved without change, will maintain some restrictions on the ownership of residential property in those areas by non-Mexicans. 
 By increasing the stakes that foreigners can hold in some industries and eliminating some of the onerous rules under which they have to operate in others, the new law is expected to make Mexico more attractive to investors in areas like tourism, mining, airlines and petrochemicals.
By consolidating and codifying many changes the Government had already made in practice, the law will also provide more security to foreign investors in other parts of the economy, officials say.
"What this law does is to give a framework of confidence and reliability," Herminio Blanco, the Under Secretary of Trade, said.
Apparently encouraged by the news, the Bolsa de Valores, Mexico's stock exchange, jumped 3.1 percent today to close at 2,231.14 points.
The new statute touches few areas of the economy that were not already open to foreign investors in practice. It generally avoids industries like oil, banking and television, in which the Salinas administration continues to protect Government or private monopolies.
And even with foreign investment expected to reach a record level of more than $10 billion this year, some economists and business people said they thought the law might have to be modified further to attract all of the foreign capital that Mexico will need to cover its deficit in trade and services and resume high rates of growth.
"It's anticlimactic at this point," said Rogelio Ramirez de la O, an economic consultant in Mexico City. "It's really inappropriate for an open economy to even have a foreign investment law. This law should have been introduced four years ago, and now they should be getting rid of it."
 
Incentives for Growth
 The new law comes amid a series of Government steps to try to stimulate investment and quicken growth in the sluggish Mexican economy after the trade pact's approval.
The trade agreement will start to open the Mexican financial-services market to American and Canadian companies when it takes effect on Jan. 1. The Government last week authorized two new banks, three savings and loans, four mortgage companies and 200 new credit unions.
Seeking to lower the high interest rates that have strangled many small and medium-sized businesses in the last two years, a state development bank, Nacional Financiera S.A., cut its rates 2 percentage points, from almost 25 percent.
On Monday, the Salinas administration also proposed to ease restrictions on international passenger and cargo transportation through Mexico, and on foreign investment in the merchant marine.
Mexican officials had been circulating drafts of the new investment law for more than two years. They held back a final version in case the North American accord was rejected by the United States, forcing them to make bigger concessions to attract enough foreign capital to cover a current-account deficit that ballooned to almost $23 billion last year.
 
Writing Practice Into Law
 The law would strike down a 20-year-old statute that was once a bulwark of Mexican economic nationalism. Especially since 1989, though, when the existing law was last modified, the Government had been disregarding many of its provisions in practice.
Where legal requirements had not been superseded by attendant rules and regulations, the Government's regulatory agency, the National Commission on Foreign Investment, was often willing to override them on a case-by-case basis.
"I don't think people were having a lot of problems coming in here," said Juan Suberville, the chief executive of Kmart Mexico, a subsidiary of the American retailer that set up shop here last March. "We registered with the investment commission, presented our plan, and it was authorized in a week."
The new statute is likely to be more important for smaller companies that might be interested in the growing Mexican market but lack the money, lawyers and consultants that are often needed to transit the maze of Mexican regulations.
"For smaller and medium-sized companies that want to come into Mexico, just consolidating and simplifying the rules ought to have a big effect," said John E. Rogers, the resident partner in Mexico City for Carlsmith Ball, a Honolulu-based law firm that advises many American businesses.
Except for part of the financial- services industry, in which the trade agreement gives only American and Canadian banks access to a 6 percent share of the Mexican banking and brokerage markets, the new law will open to all foreign investors virtually all of the areas opened to Americans and Canadians under the North American agreement.
As contemplated under the accord, the new law will also eliminate many of the so-called performance requirements that have restricted foreign companies in many ways, including their transfer of money and technology in and out of the country.
Paralleling other benefits of the trade pact, the Government proposed separate legislation today to guarantee prompt and fair compensation to any business that it might expropriate.
Besides the reduction of tariffs on trade, then, what the new foreign investment law leaves as the principal benefits to American and Canadian concerns doing business in Mexico are treatment equal to that of Mexican companies, the unrestricted repatriation of profits, and, most important, special panels to resolve any legal or commercial disputes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (50%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); 

COMPANY: NACIONAL FINANCIERA (50%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (58%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (58%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO MEXICO (97%); CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; REAL ESTATE FOREIGN INVESTMENT (94%); LEGISLATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); APPROVALS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (70%); SAVINGS & LOANS (69%); PETROCHEMICALS (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); CREDIT UNIONS (60%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM; SALINAS DE GORTARI, CARLOS (PRES) CARLOS SALINAS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1993



704 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Brazil May Have 26 Different Foreign Policies

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, Nov. 20

 BODY:
Representing a state with an economy twice the size of Argentina's, Governor Luiz Antonio Fleury Filho of Sao Paulo has become accustomed to red-carpet treatment on his foreign tours, to the United States, Europe and Taiwan.
But on his trip to Washington last month, Mr. Fleury found the city a bit crowded because six other Governors from Brazil were also in town. 
 In contrast, President Itamar Franco has ventured once outside South America as Brazil's leader, to a gathering of third-world leaders in Senegal.
"Itamar is almost absent," said Peter Hakim, president of the Inter-American Dialogue, a private study group in Washington. "It's incredible for the President of Latin America's largest country to be virtually unknown. He has not traveled to Washington. He has no plans to do so."
In the last 18 months, Brazil's foreign policy has passed through five Foreign Ministers, further lowering the nation's profile overseas.
"We have no foreign policy in Brazil," Luiz Gonzaga Belluzzo, international affairs adviser for Sao Paulo State, said after a trade mission to Argentina. "Itamar has very old ideas about relations with the United States. He was trained as a politician in a very chauvinist climate."
The result is a phenomenon that is seen today in many sectors of Brazilian society: When the center loses hold, the states assert themselves. Today, many of Brazil's 26 state governors pursue their own foreign policies.
"We want to show that despite the difficulties Brazil is going through, we have the strength and conditions to grow, to produce more, to generate jobs," Mr. Fleury said before leaving on one of his five trips as Governor to the United States, an 11-day jaunt that took him to San Diego, New Orleans, Boston, Washington and New York.
Governor Ciro Gomes of Ceara State has traveled three times to the United States in the last year. In January, Mr. Gomes is to visit Japan and Taiwan.
"The Governor's effort is essential to promoting the state and attracting new investment," said Egydio Serpa, the Governor's international adviser. Already, five Taiwan companies have set up factories in Ceara. "Thirty more are interested," Mr. Serpa said.
For Governor Gomes, and for most other Brazilian governors, trips to Washington often revolve around negotiating and signing loans with institutions like the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank. Because of mismanagement in Brazil's central Government, most of the Development Bank's loan portfolio is with state governments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IDB (ASX) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (80%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (80%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (80%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); TAIWAN (94%); ARGENTINA (93%); EUROPE (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SENEGAL (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (52%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRAZIL BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); TAIWAN (94%); ARGENTINA (93%); EUROPE (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SENEGAL (79%); JAPAN (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (52%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (63%); JOB CREATION (50%); 

PERSON: FRANCO, ITAMAR (PRES); FLEURY, LUIS ANTONIO JR (GOV); BROOKE, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1993



705 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Mediterranean Fruit Flies Return to California

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 24

 BODY:
The Mediterranean fruit fly has returned to Southern California, threatening many crops and rekindling a debate over how best to eradicate the stubborn pest.
The new outbreak has largely been unnoticed because officials have not yet resorted to aerial spraying, the most obtrusive and controversial eradication method. 
 But some officials fear that the infestation could become the region's worst yet, and it has scientists wondering whether the pest is here to stay after nearly 20 years of off-and-on eradication efforts.
Agriculture officials declared the Medfly eradicated in Southern California after the last big outbreak, in 1989 and 1990. But the new infestation began only a short time later with the discovery of a single Medfly in a trap in the Koreatown section of Los Angeles in October 1991.
More fruit flies have already been trapped in the latest infestation than in the 1989-90 outbreak, and a quarantine in three counties has been extended over 1,010 square miles, close to the 1,300 square miles quarantined in the last outbreak. A total of 395 fruit flies have been found in the current infestation, compared with 279 in the 1989-90 outbreak.
The recent discovery of one Medfly near San Diego suggests that the infestation may be spreading south along the coast, some officials said.
The first fruit flies in Southern California were found in 1975. A serious infestation could strike at the heart of the California economy if it spreads to the fertile Central Valley, the most productive agricultural region in the world. The flies trapped so far have been limited to urban areas, primarily around Los Angeles, but many Central Valley farmers fear that the infestation will spread if intensive eradication efforts are not undertaken soon.
The state ships about a quarter of its $18.1 billion annual agricultural production abroad, but other nations would stop importing California produce altogether or demand inspections and treatments if a widespread infestation develops. Such inspections and treatment of exported produce could cost $900 million to $1 billion annually, according to some estimates.
The latest outbreak has drawn pressure from some nations, especially Japan, to take a more aggressive approach, officials said. As a result, the Department of Agriculture this year convened an international panel of five scientists to study the problem, and state agriculture officials are now debating whether to adopt the panel's proposal for a large-scale eradication program.
Such an approach would contrast with the piecemeal method now used. But large-scale eradication could also raise red flags among the nations that are demanding it, because it would send a clear signal that California's crops are infested. Until now, officials have been able to convince importers that California's produce is safe.
 
Choices Are Limited
 But agricultural officials and scientists say they may have no choice about expanding the eradication, given the persistent infestation. Medflies have been found each year since 1987, after a five-year hiatus following the huge 1980-82 infestation that struck in the San Francisco Bay area and appeared in Los Angeles as well.
In a report submitted to agriculture officials in October, the international scientists recommended treating entire regions with ground spraying of the chemical Malathion as well as releasing millions of sterilized male fruit flies in hopes of breeding the pest out of existence. That technique is already being used on a smaller scale in the zones where eradication is under way, officials said.
The Medfly, one of the world's most destructive agricultural pests, is known to infest more than 250 varieties of fruits, vegetables and nuts. The female flies pierce the host's skin and lay eggs just beneath the surface, leaving the hatched maggots to eat the host and turn it into a rotten pulp. The flies reach adulthood in 30 days and have a life span of about 90 days.
The insect is endemic in some Mediterranean countries as well as Hawaii.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CITRUS FRUITS; MEDITERRANEAN FRUIT FLY; FRUIT FLIES; FLIES INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); INSPECTIONS (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (86%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); COMMUNICABLE DISEASE CONTROL (78%); AGRICULTURAL OUTPUT (69%); EXPORT TRADE (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1993



706 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1392 words

HEADLINE: After Tourists' Deaths, Florida Works to Recover

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL

 BODY:
The homicide statistics seemed to spell disaster for the $31 billion tourist industry in Florida: since the beginning of last winter's tourist season, nine visitors, all of them foreigners, have been killed near some of the state's most popular resorts.
Yet as visitors begin to stream into the state this week, Government and private tourism officials say that Florida is unlikely to suffer the economic disaster that had been foreseen by some as recently as two months ago. 
 Even the end of the American Airlines strike is a positive sign, since the carrier has a hub in Miami and also flies to cities like Orlando, Fort Lauderdale and Tampa.
"We appear to have passed through the eye of the hurricane where the crime issue is concerned," said Dean Sullivan, a spokesman for the Florida Department of Tourism. Tourists' visits may drop no more than 5 percent, officials say, and may even reach last year's level.
 
Familiar, So Less Attentive
 The main reason is that 93 percent of Florida tourists are repeat visitors familiar with the surroundings and, the reasoning goes, less likely to be deterred by fear of crime. And Florida remains the nation's top travel destination, polls say.
Also, bargain air fares to Florida, a proven stimulus to travel, are proliferating. And the state tourist commission is planning to spend huge amounts of money on advertising to stoke this winter season.
Jim West, owner of Uniglobe West Horizons Travel of Worthington, Ohio, is a Florida booster. "Most people still choose Florida over everywhere else," he contended. "They may be wary of Florida if they've never been there before. But most have been to Florida previously without encountering any security problems, so they feel safe returning."
Moreover, the state has moved vigorously to reassure tourists -- by posting security guards at roadside rest stops, installing toll-free visitors' help lines, printing multilingual brochures about safety and adding 100 cars donated by auto-rental companies for police patrols.
Still, the foreign tourists, who make up 15 percent of the trade, are a wild card. Florida officials are worried about a drop-off in visits, especially from Europe, but even here there may be some basis for optimism.
"We expect a reduction in visitors from Germany and Britain," said Miyco Villafana, a spokesman for the Greater Miami Convention and Visitors Bureau. "But we're optimistic that the Italian market will grow, and Latin America remains strong."
International visitors have taken up the slack in recent years as the number of American visitors to Miami has flagged. Some of that has to do with the recession, which appears to be ending, if at an uneven pace around the country.
In fact, from the beaches of Pensacola, Fort Lauderdale and Daytona to the theme parks near Orlando, industry officials say their biggest concern remains the economies of the Northeast and Midwest, regions that contribute roughly 48 percent of Florida's 40.5 million visitors.
 
Private View Is Less Chipper
 The state's Commerce Secretary, Greg Farmer, said Florida tourism would probably remain at a relatively sluggish level, although one state official said privately that he would be happy if tourism fell no more than 5 percent -- which would be two million visitors.
Recent tourism signals are difficult to decipher. August figures, the most recent available, show that the number of visitors plummeted 12 percent from the comparable month in 1992.
Yet, despite the killings, each of the previous seven months of 1993 showed tourist increases. And the last two killings of the nine, which accelerated a torrent of bad international publicity, occurred in September. In tourism terms, their effect will not be known until the month's figures are released in about two weeks.
Florida is the top state destination in autumn, far ahead of California, the runner-up in that period, a survey of 1,500 American adults by the Washington-based Travel Industry Association said. The survey was completed on Sept. 19, five days after the killing of the ninth foreigner, Gary Colley, a Briton, at a rest stop along an interstate highway near Tallahassee.
In another survey, also completed on Sept. 19, Carlson Travel agencies across the United States found that bookings for Florida were as strong as last year. And the Uniglobe Travel network reported last week that Florida remained the most popular destination with Americans in the upper Midwest and Northeast.
But while surveys can tell how many people have booked trips to Florida or made hotel reservations, they cannot say how many others would have booked, had the perception of danger, or the economy, been happier.
"Because of the recession, our numbers have been mostly flat the last couple of years," said William C. Peeper, executive director of the Orlando-Orange County Convention and Visitors Bureau, whose area attracts more than 13 million people annually. "We haven't seen any signs of a drop-off for this winter, but we probably won't be able to tell for a couple of months."
And in Fort Lauderdale, where foreigners account for about a quarter of the 5.1 million visitors, officials say there have been few cancellations, but a softness in bookings for later in the season. European travelers tend to make their plans three months or more in advance.
 
Problems Later in Season
 Likewise, European visits were up 9 percent through September in the St. Petersburg-Clearwater area, where tourism is the leading industry. "But there's concern that long-range bookings are not as strong as they were expected to be," said Lee Daniel of the area convention and visitors bureau.
To bolster foreign tourism, five public and private organizations in St. Petersburg and Tampa will begin a $500,000 British advertising campaign in January. Representatives from other Florida cities, and from the state tourist bureau, have gone to Europe, assuring tour operators and officials that fewer than one-tenth of 1 percent of tourists to the state in 1992 were violent-crime victims.
Nonetheless, some nations have warned their citizens about Florida travel. After two Canadians were shot to death in the summer, the Canadian Embassy's travel information report on Sept. 17 declared, "Foreign tourists in Florida have been increasingly victimized and appear to have been singled out at, or while proceeding to, popular tourist destinations."
And after a British postal worker was killed in Orlando in October 1992, the Foreign Office in London warned those visiting the United States to be wary of muggers and to carry a few dollars in cash to be able to give up to the muggers in the case of attack.
Florida recently resumed a $6.7 million advertising campaign in the United States and Canada, having suspended it after the ninth killing. With the slogan "One Florida, Many Faces," showing visitors disporting themselves at the beach, on the water and at theme parks, the ads are intended to stress the state's diversity while banishing attention to crime. Moreover, the industry has agreed to provide $3 million more for the campaign, provided the Legislature comes up with $2 million.
 
Situation in Miami
 Miami is something of a special case. Domestic travel there has been declining for several years, but foreign tourism has steadily grown and now makes up 20 percent of the total. As a result, Miami tourism had been up 4 percent through the first eight months of 1993, according to Mr. Villafana of the convention bureau. But the city is likely to end the year flat.
Some reduction in foreign visits is already being felt by tour operators and hotels in the Miami area, but things could be worse. "Luckily for Miami, enough time has passed for many people to forget about the murders, or to feel less intimidated," said Patrick D'sa, a tourism specialist with PKF Consulting in Miami.
Another thing in Miami's favor, he asserted, is that "Latin American visitors are more used to that kind of crime at home, so it doesn't keep them away the way it does some tourists."
And as many Latin Americans come to Florida to shop rather than to sun-bathe, which they can do where they live, and as they often arrive on group charters, he said, "their visits are more dependent on their economy at home than on the crime problem in Miami."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Despite the violence that has plagued foreign tourists in Florida, there are no predictions of disaster for the $31 billion industry. At a motel in Deerfield Beach that caters to German tourists, the marquee extends a welcome to visitors, along with a list of amenities offered. (Susan Greenwood for The New York Times) (pg. D16)
 
Graph: "A Slump in the Summer" shows the amount of Florida tourists (American and Foriegn) from 1989-1992. (Sources: Strategy Research Corporation; Florida Division of Tourism) (pg. D1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (98%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); PENSACOLA, FL, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLORIDA UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); FLORIDA, USA (98%); OHIO, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (93%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); PENSACOLA, FL, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS TOURISM (92%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (73%); BEACHES (73%); AIRLINES (70%); AIR FARES (70%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); MULTILINGUALISM (61%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (50%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1993



707 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Albany Workers Fined in Ethics Violations

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: ALBANY, Nov. 25

 BODY:
Former state employees have paid $8,400 in fines and settlements over the last five years after the state Ethics Commission found violations of New York's "revolving door" law.
Former state officials are prohibited from instantly profiting from their former government ties. Still, such violations are among the most common ethical transgressions discovered by the commission, according to documents made available to The Associated Press under the state's Freedom of Information Law. 
 Twelve of the 41 cases where the commission found reason to believe ethics laws had been broken involved the revolving door prohibition.
 
2-Year Interval
 The cases include a former New York City Transit Authority examiner accused of appearing before his agency as a lawyer two weeks after quitting his public post, and two former state environmental workers who formed their own consulting company and then did business with their former employer.
The law forbids former state officials from appearing before their old agencies in a business capacity for two years after leaving state service. The former state workers may never handle matters they were directly involved with while on the state payroll.
Five of the 12 "revolving door" cases are still pending. Three resulted in fines being levied, with the highest being $2,500. Four former officials agreed with the commission's lawyers on monetary settlements ranging from $150 to $1,500. The commission can seek fines of up to $10,000.
The $2,500 fine was levied on Dominick DeSimone, a former state Education Department employee. After leaving state service, Mr. DeSimone admitted to working for an architectural firm on the plans for the same Troy elementary school for which he had an oversight role while working for the state.
 
Fines of $250 to $1,000
 Mr. DeSimone said he had answered questions about the project while working for the architects but called it "a very minor kind of indiscretion."
"I thought I was bending over backwards in the first place to follow the rules, but I had to bend back further," he said.
He said he grew weary of fighting the state.
"It cost me so much for a lawyer," he said. "After awhile I just gave up."
The commission imposed a $1,000 fine on Gregory Abram, a former employee of the state Division of Housing and Community Renewal, for appearing as the lawyer for a client in a rent regulation case before the agency.
Joseph Taggert, a former employee of the state Division of Equalization and Assessment, was fined $250 for appearing on behalf of an association at a meeting with division officials to discuss state regulations, the commission said.
Among the pending "revolving door" cases, with details cited in Ethics Commission reports:
 
Newsletters and Videos
 The Ethics Commission has not taken any unusual steps to curb violations of the "revolving door" law, said Walter Ayres, a spokesman for the panel. Commission workers make occasional visits to agencies and distribute newsletters and videotapes on ethics rules.
All state employees are told to read New York's public officer's law and the commission often offers confidential advice to state workers looking to change their careers, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ETHICS COMMISSION (NYS) ASSOCIATED PRESS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ETHICS COMMISSION (NYS)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; ETHICS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FINES (PENALTIES) ETHICS (95%); FINES & PENALTIES (92%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LAWYERS (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); RENT CONTROL (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (71%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1993



708 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: Uncaging the Alter Ego, Briefly

BYLINE: By MICHAEL T. KAUFMAN

 BODY:
THE premise was simple. I would rent some kind of super-whiz-bang sports car and take my 55-year-old alter ego out for a spin and see what happened.
Automotively speaking, I have always been a short back and sides sort of human. I have, to be sure, had occasional yearnings for fins, aerodynamic curves, speed and power, but whenever faced with choosing a new car I always went with fuel economy, safety features, modest price and something you could drive to a funeral. 
 Now I was ready to change all that, if only for a weekend. I called Roarin' Roadster Rentals, an outfit in Clifton, N.J., to discuss what it could do for me. Bill, the man on the phone, said there were 12 models for rent, from a Ferrari 308GTSi, whatever that is, renting for a basic $999 for a three-day weekend, to a 1966 T-Bird convertible at $349 for the weekend.
I was tempted by the Ferrari but in the end dismissed the thought as probably too rich for my blood and unduly provocative for the accounting department. In my mind's eye I tried to imagine the Mercedeses, the Porsches, BMW's and Jaguars in the Roarin' Roadster inventory.
"Do you have something in red?" I asked with what I hoped sounded like savoir-faire.
"We have a Corvette convertible," Bill said. "It's metallic red, 1991, really a gorgeous car."
Gorgeous sounded right. The basic cost was $499 for the three days, with 300 free miles and 50 cents for every additional mile. Rather pleased with the prospect and feeling like Emerson Fittipaldi, whoever he is, I invited my wife, who is almost as old as my alter ego, to look at peaking leaves in the sleek, low-riding metallic red road hugger, perhaps with the top down. "Why not," she said.
Then I called our 30-year-old son to ask what tapes would be appropriate for a red Corvette.
"Kenny G, definitely Kenny G," my son said.
"But I don't like Kenny G," I replied.
"Neither do I, but you didn't ask me what was good, you asked me what went with a red Corvette," my son explained. This was my first intimation that perhaps I was signing on to someone else's Walter Mitty adventure. I ignored the musical advice and packed tapes of Ella, Sarah, Miles, Chet, B. B., Ludwig and Wolfgang.
For an extra $25 the people at Roarin' Roadster agreed to deliver the car to me in Manhattan and it arrived as promised, sleek and powerful, drawing admiring attention from several layabouts on my block.
 
The Real Point
 "Woo-wee, woo-wee," said one of these as the man from the rental company circled the Corvette with a video camera, preparing evidence that could be used against me in case I returned the car with blemishes. Somewhat intimidated, I was wondering what a scratch, or heaven forbid, a dent, might cost me when, in his own way, the chief layabout commended the car as a vehicle that was irresistible to women.
I looked up. He was leering and I realized I had not misheard. Smiling and friendly, as one predator to another, he exclaimed, "Mister, with that car, if you don't score, you'll have to hang your head in shame."
This is not what I had in mind for my alter ego. Not at all. I had thought I was going off to indulge fantasies of Le Mans, wherever that is, and emulate Juan Manuel Fangio, whoever he was, while driving through the countryside with my longstanding wife. But for the world out there, the car was sending off a set of other signals. Here, for instance, was a total stranger who, with evident admiration, was taking me for a dirty old man. The car, which I viewed as a zippy conveyance, he saw as a lure, a high-test, as in testosterone, bimbo magnet, perhaps even a prop for what he assumed to be my flagging charms.
For a second I thought of setting him straight. Instead, I ignored him and went on learning about the car's features. To my dismay, it had automatic transmission. Without a clutch, how could I pretend to be Jackie Stewart, whoever he is?
 
Short Honeymoon
 But there were some compensations. I practiced taking the top down and putting it up again. Also the steering wheel could be tilted into three positions. When you turned on the lights they flipped up and popped out from the fender. When you turned on the radio you could watch the antenna shoot up in the rear view mirror. And then there were the glove-leather seats. You got into them as you would into a bath, and with the aid of controls on the automatic stick shift console, you could manipulate the seats into any number of configurations. In fact, driving the seats seemed more challenging than driving the car.
Having mastered the gizmos, we set off for Saratoga Springs, N.Y., with the top down, the windows up and Chet Baker playing "Let's Get Lost." It was very nice to look up at the colorful trees reaching across toward one another. The sky was blue and for about an hour and a half everything was very fine. The car reached the speed limit very quickly, and the trick was to rein it in. I kept wishing for more curves.
I also kept wondering what the people driving in the other lanes were thinking of me. Did they realize that the alter ego at the wheel of the Corvette had the hand-eye coordination and courage of Stirling Moss, whoever he is? Did they appreciate the meshing of man and machine? Or did they, like the layabout still on my mind, also presume me to be just another lecher going under the speed limit?
 
Then Rain
 Then it started to rain and we put up the top. It rained for the next two days. At the toll booths, where I spurned the exact-change lanes to better gauge the responses, there were none, which led me to conclude that the toll takers were either jaded or trained in hiding their admiration and respect.
At a restaurant in Kingston, a waiter remarked, "What a great set of wheels; bet it makes you feel frisky." He did not, however, give me a nudge and a wink, for which I was grateful.
At Saratoga Springs, an old friend took one look and said, "Makes you wish you were a kid again, doesn't it?"
And, oh yes, on the way home the driver of a pickup truck smiled and gave me the O.K. sign.
And that was all the feedback there was until I brought the metallic red beauty back to my block, where, as arranged, the folks from Roarin' Roadsters were waiting to pick it up. They checked for scratches, dents or chips and I was gratified they did not find any. I was even more gratified that in the rain no one was on the street. The layabout philosopher would not be asking me whether I had to hang my head in shame.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sleek and powerful: A 1991 metallic red Corvette convertible for weekend adventurers. (Rebecca Kaufman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (72%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: CORVETTE

ORGANIZATION: CORVETTE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); NEW JERSEY, USA (72%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES SPORTS CARS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); 

PERSON: KAUFMAN, MICHAEL T

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1993



709 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 1993

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 4; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1961 words

HEADLINE: Critic's Notebook;
Sampling Art In Sound Bites

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN

 BODY:
FOR many people who listen to Acoustiguides, going to an art museum is like plunging into the ocean without knowing how to swim. The Acoustiguides are their cruise ships and Philippe de Montebello, the voice that launched a thousand exhibitions, is their captain.
I had never listened to an Acoustiguide until this week, when I spent a few hours at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Guggenheim Museum and the Museum of Modern Art letting Mr. de Montebello, the Met's director, and an assorted crew of fellow directors, curators, vocal stand-ins, artists and artists' relatives navigate me through several shows. I don't know how much I heard that couldn't be gleaned from the wall labels and accompanying brochures and a little extra effort, but I do have more of an inkling of what it feels like to sail on a Carnival cruise. 
 That's not altogether fair. The tapes are more serious than you might think, or at least they try to be. Acoustiguides have been around since the mid-1950's, believe it or not, and by now the people who produce them have a reasonable idea of what curators want and listeners need, which are not always the same thing.
Acoustiguide is actually the name of the original and biggest of the companies that makes the tapes. Based in Manhattan, it produces hundreds of them worldwide each year, in many languages (visitors to the Forbidden City can hear Peter Ustinov narrate Acoustiguide tours in French, English and German). Acoustiguide did all three of the tapes you can hear at the moment in New York City -- one for the Miro show at the Modern, another for the Roy Lichtenstein retrospective at the Guggenheim and the third for the new 19th-century European painting and sculpture galleries at the Met. Each tape is surprisingly different from the other two in form, not to say content, although all of them last about 45 minutes, the length of a standard cassette tape and, says Acoustiguide's chairman, Amos Melamede, an average listener's attention span.
Tapes take between a couple of weeks and several months to produce, Mr. Melamede explained. The process varies, but for temporary exhibitions it is basically this: The curator putting the show together sits down with representatives from Acoustiguide, or if possible walks through the galleries with them as the works are being installed, describing the layout and talking about what will be on view.
The curator's comments are then edited by Acoustiguide into a form suited to the medium of audio and returned to the curator for approval. The company sometimes suggests music and stand-ins to read the scripts. Mr. Melamede took pains to point out that museums have constant and final say over the shape and content of the tapes. Once the tape is produced, Acoustiguide provides the salespeople to distribute it in the galleries (rental fee is about $4), and the museums take a cut of the earnings.
There was a time when renting an Acoustiguide was like requesting an English menu in a French restaurant, an admission of ignorance to be avoided by the educated classes, but now Acoustiguides are so commonplace that when I asked a few listeners in the Miro show whether they were embarrassed to be seen wearing headphones, I could see they pegged me immediately as a snob.
What did they say they expected from the tapes? Biographical and historical background, to be sure, also guidance about how to look at art that seemed indecipherable; and more than one person wanted the correct pronunciation of names and titles (you don't always get it, by the way).
In this age of CNN and fax machines, it was perhaps not surprising, but depressing nonetheless, that the museumgoers also said they depended on the tapes to provide information immediately and economically. It's a waste of time to read labels and then look at the art when someone can read to you while you look, one woman said. Tapes also pace you through a show, she added, echoing what others expressed. After roughly three-quarters of an hour, and whatever stops you make on your own, you know you will be finished, even if the exhibition is as big as the two-floor Miro retrospective.
Railing against Acoustiguides at this stage is like lamenting the demise of 78's, but you can't help wondering whether listeners know what they're getting, or more to the point, what they're missing. The sensation I had listening to Mr. de Montebello's mellifluous voice at the Met (and whoever that was masquerading as Miro at the Modern) seemed most analagous to -- snorkeling.
Odd perhaps, but I imagined the headphones as my snorkel, the tape as my goggles, while I floated through the shows, somehow never feeling that I was actually in them. When crowds don't make it impractical, I like to walk through an exhibition to get a sense of its scale and an idea of where objects are that I will want to look at more closely. Then I pace myself from the beginning. With the Acoustiguides, I imitated a minnow, darting from one corner to another with the rest of the school of listeners. I even caught myself silently mouthing words, like a fish breathing in water, as I tried to copy Mr. de Montebello's ripe renditions of "Chateaubriand" and "Delacroix" and "palette" ("pal-ETTE").
At the risk of overworking this acquatic metaphor almost as much as Mr. de Montebello works over "van Gogh" ("vhan GUGG"), I imagine Acoustiguides should be like water wings, which listeners eventually wean themselves from as they become more comfortable in museums. But I have the impression they are increasingly perceived as life rafts, to which visitors feel they must cling to survive. With the addition of music and guest stars, no wonder the raft becomes the Love Boat, and the art a visual backdrop, a perk of the voyage, like sunset over the ship's bow.
With a new phase of Acoustiguide technology on the horizon that Mr. Melamede says will allow listeners to call up information about whatever object they choose, there is the prospect of channel surfing, which is at least a form of greater independence.
Until then, here is a brief guide to the current Acoustiguides:
 
Miro
 This is the slickest, most elaborate of the three Acoustiguides, which makes it the most enjoyable or the most manipulative, depending on your perspective. With the largest ambitions in terms of historical information and formal description, it includes evocative comments about the collage paintings of 1933, the small paintings on copper and panel from 1935 and the murals from the 60's.
But it's still frustratingly scattershot, telegraphed and random. I imagine it must be difficult for someone who knows nothing about 20th-century art to decipher from a couple of sentences why Miro suddenly rejected painting and then, just as suddenly, returned to it. And I'm sure people will look at his painting of the number 48 and wonder about the steamy description of the numerals' "swelling curves and contracting lines."
This Acoustiguide features a diverse cast of narrators, including Miro's grandson, who makes some of the more cogent remarks. The curator, Carolyn Lanchner, on the other hand, interjects comments too dense to digest while jockeying for position in front of a picture. New Age music, of all things, sets the mood in various rooms, rather than letting you feel what strikes you when you look at the art.
As on the other Acoustiguides, but less so, the narrators dole out puffery in behalf of the artist and museum. Also, like the others, this Acoustiguide goes out of its way to cajole, prod and entreat listeners to switch off the tape and look around. But people seem to take little initiative, perhaps because this tape is so consuming by itself. I stopped it only a few times, and the Acoustiguide customers who entered the show roughly when I did all finished around the same time, too.
 
19th-Century Galleries
 If the Miro Acoustiguide is a feature film, this one at the Met is a home movie, despite the theatrical savoir-faire of Mr. de Montebello. Little music, no voiceovers, just the facts, ma'am. Mr. de Montebello is half of a cast that also includes the curator, Gary Tinterow, and the two of them do a pretty good Alphonse and Gaston, thanking each other for letting the other one speak, as if listeners will actually believe they were in the galleries together when the tape was recorded.
Their task is the hardest, to cover a vast range of historical material and also provide information about the galleries ("Manet himself would have been very pleased to see his pictures in this particular setting," Mr. de Montebello fantasizes).
The goal of all the tapes seems to be to cover as much as possible and not dawdle over pictures too long, lest listeners get restless. And in this case that means mentioning about three dozen works, which is too many in 45 minutes. There's a genuine effort to condense serious thought into bite-sized nuggets on this tape. But more about less would certainly have been better.
 
Lichtenstein
 Although Mr. de Montebello seems to know Manet personally, there's nothing like having the artist speak for himself. Roy Lichtenstein's descriptions of his own works are what make this Acoustiguide at the Guggenheim the most provocative of the three.
Before you get to Mr. Lichtenstein, you hear an introduction by the Guggenheim's director, Thomas Krens, who sounds suspiciously as if he may be referring to himself when he talks about how both Frank Lloyd Wright's design for the Guggenheim and Mr. Lichtenstein "departed radically from contemporary expectations."
"Both were the center of great controversy and both met with scathing criticism," he says, adding, "But today both have become cultural icons."
You also listen to Diane Waldman, the curator, who, having known Mr. Lichtenstein for three decades, is a knowledgeable guide to his career, but who, suffice it to say, is no Philippe de Montebello of the airwaves.
It's fascinating to hear Mr. Lichtenstein himself, though, describe how he developed a technique for the series of paintings depicting mirrors, first photographing magnifying mirrors that wouldn't reflect objects in focus. From the photographs he derived the canvases, which he calls "pure abstract paintings."
It is also intriguing to hear him say that he sees a link between his own art and Leger's; and to hear him compare his variations on works by Picasso with Picasso's on Velazquez. Only when he says that his work is about "how we see things, what's of value and what's real and what isn't, and nothing is, of course" does Mr. Lichtenstein sound like the Delphic oracle. Otherwise, he's refreshingly down to earth.
Even with less material to discuss than each of the other two tapes must cover, this Acoustiguide has the inevitable once-over-lightly quality. But Mr. Lichtenstein makes it worth the price of headphones.
 
Where and When
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART, Fifth Avenue at 82d Street. Admission: $6; $3 for students and the elderly. Hours: Fridays and Saturdays, 9:30 A.M. to 8:45 P.M.; Sundays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, 9:30 A.M. to 5:15 P.M.; closed Mondays. Tape price: $3.75. Tour length: 45 minutes. Information: (212) 535-7710.
SOLOMON R. GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 88th Street. Hours: Fridays through Wednesdays 10 A.M. to 8 P.M.; closed Thursdays. Admission: $8.50, $5.50 for students and the elderly. Tape price: $4. Tour length: 45 minutes. Information: (212) 423-3500.
MUSEUM OF MODERN ART, 11 West 53d Street, Manhattan. Hours: Saturdays through Tuesdays, 11 A.M. to 6 P.M.; Thursdays and Fridays, noon to 8:30 P.M.; closed Wednesdays. Admission: $7.50; $4.50 for students and the elderly. Tape price: $4. Tour length: 45 minutes. Information: (212) 708-9480.

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (pg. C1)
 
Photo: Vistors to the new 19th-century European painting and sculpture galleries at the Metropolitan Museum of Art listen to an Acoustiguide tour of the rooms. The audiotapes are narrated by Philippe de Montebello, the musuem's director. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) (pg. C7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); GERMANY (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART; ACOUSTIGUIDES METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (91%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART; ACOUSTIGUIDES METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (91%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); GERMANY (54%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: ART; ART SHOWS; RECORDINGS (AUDIO) MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CRUISES (89%); PAINTING (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); 

PERSON: KIMMELMAN, MICHAEL; DE MONTEBELLO, PHILIPPE PETER ALEXANDER USTINOV (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1993



710 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: PRO FOOTBALL;
Cardinals and Their Coach Losing the Numbers Game

BYLINE: By MIKE FREEMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J., Nov. 25

 BODY:
Before taking a head-coaching job with the Phoenix Cardinals, be sure to have plenty of food in the refrigerator and some unemployment insurance. The Cardinals have provided a coaches graveyard over the years. In fact, some coaches jokingly call the team's owner, Bill Bidwell, "the nutty professor" because of his horn-rim glasses and what they say are some of the zany things he puts his coaches through.
Joe Bugel knows all about that. At the beginning of the year, Bidwell made the proclamation that Bugel had to win nine games this year. Hint, hint: Though there was no "or else" in the statement, clearly Bidwell wasn't going to give Bugel some nice silverware if he didn't reach the magic number. More like a pink slip. 
 Phoenix is 3-7, a busted-up team that continues to play hard. The Cardinals can do the necessary addition: Ten games played equals six games left, meaning they must win the rest of their games to reach the nine-victory mark and thus save Bugel's job. Common sense dictates that is not going to happen.
 
No Sympathy From Giants
 Standing in the way of the Cardinals are the Giants. While Giants Coach Dan Reeves can understand what Bugel is going through -- Reeves didn't know what the future would hold for him during his last season in Denver -- there will be no sympathy for Bugel on Sunday when the teams meet at the Meadowlands. The Giants are in a battle of their own, trying to match the Dallas Cowboys step for step.
Complicating matters even more is the unbelievably bad luck the Cardinals have had at Giants Stadium. This is the biggest and most important statistic of the game: The Cardinals have lost nine straight games in New York, their last victory coming in 1983 when they were the St. Louis Cardinals and Neil Lomax was throwing to Roy Green. That almost seems like another era.
These are the odds Bugel faces. They are not good ones.
"I'm doing real well," Bugel said this week, when asked how is he dealing with the now infamous nine-game ultimatum. "That doesn't really bother me or our football team. We have a six-game schedule right now, and we're going to give it our dead-level best. Like I said, everything has been full speed. We have a great attitude. We have a good player-coach relationship right here, so the football team has made it very interesting for both me and my staff."
Indeed, the Cardinals have been playing hard, tough football despite the losses. The week after Dallas pummeled the Giants, Phoenix went into Texas Stadium and played them tight, losing by only 20-15. The intensity and heart have never been questions.
"If you look at their last game," said Reeves, "they had a chance at the end of the game to beat Dallas in Dallas, and we had just played them and got beat bad at Dallas. So we can't underestimate this team and we've got to be ready to play."
 
High-Priced Injuries
 The biggest problems for the Cardinals have been twofold. First, they have fallen short of the great expectations provided by the off season of signing of some high-profile free agents and the drafting of some talented rookies like running back Garrison Hearst. Second, the team's psyche suffered tremendously when many of these players got hurt.
They signed four high-priced free agents -- quarterback Steve Beuerlein, receiver Gary Clark and safeties John Booty and Chuck Cecil -- and all of them have missed time because of injuries. Cecil, who is one of the team's emotional leaders but has the reputation of Darth Vader, has also had to deal with being fined by the league for alleged cheap shots and the bad publicity that comes with those fines.
"I think any time anybody has been fined like that or reprimanded like that, you think twice when somebody comes in your zone," said Bugel.
The other big injuries have been to the young blood, like Hearst and a fellow first-rounder, Earnest Dye, an offensive tackle who was so good he had been starting until he had arthroscopic knee surgery at the end of September. Then there's a second-round draft pick, offensive lineman Ben Coleman (sprained medial collateral ligament) and sixth-round linebacker Brett Wallerstedt (torn cartilage). Also lost is defensive lineman Eric Swann, who had arthroscopic surgery on his right knee earlier this month.
"I think the big reason we have lost a lot of close games is this -- and I'll be real honest with you: We don't have six or seven superstars on our football team," said Bugel. "We don't have those kinds of guys that say, 'Hey, jump on my back. I'm going to lead you to the playoffs or the Super Bowl.' "
Right now, the Cardinals aren't thinking Super Bowl. They would settle for just a few victories. Six, to be exact.
 
EXTRA POINTS
 The Giants worked out on Thanksgiving morning, then had the rest of the day off. . . . RICKY PROEHL is the Cardinals' leading receiver with 509 yards on 42 catches. He is originally from Belle Mead, N.J., and his parents, Giants season ticket-holders, haven't missed a home game since the team moved to Giants Stadium in 1975.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joe Bugel (Doug Pensinger/Allsport)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (86%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (86%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (68%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (86%); 

COMPANY: PHOENIX CARDINALS PHOENIX CARDINALS (94%); PHOENIX CARDINALS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHOENIX CARDINALS PHOENIX CARDINALS (94%); PHOENIX CARDINALS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (86%); TEXAS, USA (86%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (68%); DALLAS, TX, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL AMERICAN FOOTBALL (86%); SPORTS (86%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); BASEBALL (73%); 

PERSON: FREEMAN, MIKE; BUGEL, JOE MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1993



711 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 26, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: Jailed by Hanoi, Shut Out by Washington

 BODY:
More than 20 years after the last American troops left Vietnam, a sullen shadow war still rages. Psyches on both sides remain haunted by extravagant suspicions, diplomats barely communicate, and unfortunate people trapped in the middle can pay a heavy price.
One such person is Do Ngoc Long, imprisoned and persecuted by Hanoi for his associations with anti-war Americans -- and now rebuffed by Washington in his quest for political asylum in the U.S. It would be particularly appropriate if President Clinton intervened directly in the asylum case and spared Mr. Long further torments. 
 During the war years, Mr. Long worked with the "Shoeshine Boys" project, organized by American conscientious objectors to help homeless children in Saigon and Danang. To Hanoi hard-liners, it was inconceivable that Washington would have tolerated Americans participating in such a project unless they were really secret U.S. agents.
Despite economic reforms, that kind of hard-line political mentality still persists in Vietnamese police agencies. In 1990, Mr. Long was arrested on suspicion of "activities detrimental to the national security." The allegation was based on his supposed cooperation with another anti-war American trying to end the U.S. embargo against Vietnam.
After three years' imprisonment and a campaign of denunciations in the official media, Mr. Long was released last April. Both the Bush and Clinton Administrations had told Hanoi that they were concerned about Mr. Long, and the approval of his application for entry to the U.S. as a refugee seemed a logical next step.
Yet in August, the Immigration and Naturalization Service turned him down, suggesting that he go through the years-long process of applying for an immigrant visa. According to narrow procedural guidelines, Mr. Long's arrest was too recent to qualify as clearly political. Yet the propaganda campaign against him suggests that he remains highly vulnerable so long as he stays in Vietnam.
Fortunately, however, the Immigration Service is ultimately accountable to a President familiar with the powerful emotions of the Vietnam War and the independence of Americans who opposed it. Mr. Clinton can help rescue Mr. Long from the cruel shadow war.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (91%); VIETNAM (90%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (90%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTH KOREA UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (91%); VIETNAM (90%); HANOI, VIETNAM (90%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%); 

SUBJECT: VIETNAM WAR; POLITICAL PRISONERS; ASYLUM (POLITICAL); EDITORIALS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (89%); VIETNAM WAR (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARRESTS (88%); REFUGEES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); POLICE FORCES (72%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (72%); APPROVALS (67%); HOMELESSNESS (54%); CHILDREN (54%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (51%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LONG, DO NGOC BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1993



712 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: Prayer Won't Balance the Budget

 BODY:
Senator Robert Byrd calls the proposed balanced-budget amendment "a precatory expression of pious hope" -- a prayer that something nice will come of a fantasy. The Senator from West Virginia may be concerned that the amendment would curb his authority over spending as chairman of the Appropriations Committee. But, as the meticulous guardian of proper procedure, he is more certainly alarmed by the threat to the Constitution: In the specious name of balancing the books, this amendment would unbalance government.
Sponsored by Senator Paul Simon of Illinois, with 49 co-sponsors, this pernicious amendment would remove the Federal budget from majority rule. It would do so by declaring that Congress must adopt a balanced budget each year, starting in 1999, unless America is at war, or unless three-fifths of the members of both houses approve a deficit. 
 In practice, this means a two-fifths minority -- 40 percent -- could force its will on the majority. In the current Congress, the minority Republicans would be in the driver's seat. That might look good to Republicans now, but they should realize the shoe could be on the other foot someday.
Not only would the amendment undermine a fundamental concept of democracy, it would clutter the Constitution with micro-managerial detail. It seems safe to assume that if it were adopted, the Administration and Congress would conspire on spending and revenue estimates to make the budget look balanced -- as they do already to some degree. Or they would cut deals to get 60 percent approval of an unbalanced budget.
And who then would declare a "violation"? That would be up to Federal judges with life tenure, and ultimately the Supreme Court, which is no place to sort out fiscal policy. No, this is the duty of elected politicians, who can be booted out if voters are dissatisfied.
The amendment itself represents perverse fiscal policy. As President Clinton has pointed out, the deficit increases automatically when the economy dips; to avoid deficits during recessions "we [would] have to raise taxes and cut expenditures whenever the economy is weak."
Mr. Clinton declared unqualified opposition early this month, when it appeared the Senate would vote before Thanksgiving and it looked as though the amendment might pass. In 1986 a similar amendment barely failed to muster the two-thirds majority required for Constitutional amendments. Since that time the popular taste for easy-sounding remedies -- like term limits -- has obviously increased.
The Senate leadership has now postponed the vote until February, for reasons unexplained -- perhaps only to avoid the pre-adjournment crush, or perhaps to gain time to line up more opposition. It is commonly assumed that if the Senate votes "yes" the House will, too. Final adoption would still require approval by 38 states, but the time to stop this fraud is now. Responsible senators will vote "no."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CONSTITUTIONS; CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS; EDITORIALS BUDGETS (95%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); APPROVALS (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); TERM LIMITS (79%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); SUPREME COURTS (76%); POLITICS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); JUDGES (63%); THANKSGIVING (50%); 

PERSON: BYRD, ROBERT C (SEN) ROBERT BYRD (89%); BILL CLINTON (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1993



713 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 26, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 265 words

HEADLINE: There's No Shortage Of Math Doctorates

 BODY:
To the Editor:
A new report from the Department of Education, "National Excellence: A Case for Developing America's Talent," refers to a United States "shortage of graduate students in mathematics and science." 
 As a recent graduate of a doctoral program in mathematics, let me assure you that there is no shortage. Nor will there be a shortage in the near future.
A new survey of recent doctorates in mathematics, published in the November issue of the Notices of the American Mathematical Society, reports the following information: United States universities gave out 1,197 doctorates in mathematics during the 1992-93 academic year, 526 of which went to United States citizens.
This is a 14 percent increase from last year, and it is an increase of more than 50 percent from the academic year 1986-87, when these numbers were 739 and 362.
The critical statistic, however, has to do with jobs. Among those new doctorates whose employment status was known in September, 12.4 percent were unemployed!
Mathematics is not the only scientific discipline that is faced with this problem. Young physicists, for example, are so upset that to try and do something about it they worked to get two of their own elected to the board of the American Physical Society.
Using the Internet hookup, groups such as the Young Mathematicians' Network are forming to find ways to dispel this shortage myth. The truth is that there is no shortage of scientists, or graduate students, for that matter. Rather, there is a shortage of jobs!
 
EDWARD F. ABOUFADEL
New Haven, Nov. 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (US) AMERICAN MATHEMATICAL SOCIETY (57%); AMERICAN MATHEMATICAL SOCIETY (57%); AMERICAN PHYSICAL SOCIETY (55%); AMERICAN PHYSICAL SOCIETY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (US) AMERICAN MATHEMATICAL SOCIETY (57%); AMERICAN MATHEMATICAL SOCIETY (57%); AMERICAN PHYSICAL SOCIETY (55%); AMERICAN PHYSICAL SOCIETY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: MATHEMATICS; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES MATHEMATICS (92%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PHYSICS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); INTERNET & WWW (65%); 

PERSON: ABOUFADEL, EDWARD F

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1993



714 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-6
 
ISRAEL MAY MISS PULLOUT DEADLINE
Yitzhak Rabin said Israel might be unable to meet a deadline of Dec. 13 for starting its troop pullout and the assumption of Palestinian rule in the Gaza Strip and Jericho.1
 
IRAQ AGREES TO U.N. INSPECTIONS
Iraq agreed to let the United Nations start long-term monitoring of its industries to insure it does not build weapons of mass destruction. 1 

TV GETS BIG ROLE IN RUSSIAN VOTE
Russians are getting their first taste of the rough campaigning that will dominate the airwaves until the parliamentary elections on Dec. 12. 1
Russia says printing the Protocols of the Elders of Zion is anti-Semitic. 6
 
U.S. DIPLOMAT ABDUCTED IN YEMEN
An American diplomat was seized in Yemen. Officials said the abduction seemed to be linked to local issues and not politically motivated. 5
 
U.S. SEEKS TO EASE PAKISTAN BAN
The United States is proposing the repeal of a law that bars military aid to Pakistan because of its efforts to develop an atomic bomb. 5
 
PERU COUNTS GAINS IN REBELLION
With the capture of Peru's top guerrilla leader, and with desertions in his movement, the country is returning to a semblance of normal life, but the rebellion is still potent. 3
 
GERMANY OUTLAWS KURDISH GROUP
Germany banned a Kurdish separatist party accused of attacking Turkish diplomatic sites in Europe and raided offices and homes of suspected supporters of the group. 6
 
Belfast Journal: The British Army is trying to lower tensions in Ulster. 4
 
National 7-9
 
BOOM TIME IN THE SOUTH
The Southeast is outpacing the rest of the country as the nation climbs out of recession, reflecting a long, slow process of growth in the South and the changing balance of economic power in America. 1
 
HOLIDAY SHOPPING BEGINS
Shoppers turned out in large numbers for the opening day of the Christmas retail season. But in Atlanta and other cities, the big draw wasn't the merchandise as much as the prospect of big discounts and early-bird specials. 35
 
ALL-CONSERVATIVE TV CHANNEL
Hoping to make conservative views a fixture of popular culture, the Free Congress Foundation is set to begin broadcasts on what may be the first public-affairs channel with a declared ideological spin. 1
 
A CALL FOR A MORAL REVOLUTION
The theme of a moral and cultural revolution crops up more and more in White House pronouncements. 9
 
THE JUSTICE'S LINGERING WOUNDS
Two years after a bruising confirmation battle over charges of sexual harassment, Justice Clarence Thomas remains deeply wounded by the experience. 7
 
DISPUTE OVER FLORIDA BEARS
Although bear hunters say the woods have never been so flush with prey, biologists say Florida's bear population is endangered, and opposition to the hunt is growing. 7
 
Experts differ on odds of Southern California quake. 7
 
Metro Digest 21
 
NEW COURT IN MIDTOWN
The new Midtown Community Court in Manhattan is struggling with how to mete out punishment, payback to the community and social services under one roof. Earnestness and optimism still abound, but reality keeps butting in: since the court opened, many defendants have shown up two or three times, already rearrested for the same crime. 1
 
REVIVING THE RAILROAD
Many policy planners say the New York metropolitan area's highways have become so congested with trucks that the revival of these freight tracks may well be vital to further economic growth. The first halting steps in that direction are already under way. 1
 
Your Money 33-34
 
A solution to a life insurance riddle. 33
 
Business Digest 35
 
Arts/Entertainment 11-17
 
"The Joy Luck Club" is given a stage production in China. 11
Virginia Woolf memorabilia. 11
Theater: "Olivia's Opus." 16
"The Survivor." 16
Music: Critic's Notebook 11
St. Luke's chamber group. 17
 
Obituaries 10
 
Sports 26-31
 
Basketball: Kansas overpowers Massachusetts. 27
Michigan beats Georgia Tech. 29
Nets blow lead and lose again. 30
Columns: Lipsyte on soccer. 27
Football: Nebraska defeats Oklahoma. 27
West Virginia beats Boston College. 27
Playoff path open for Giants. 28
For Marshall, substance or shadow? 28
Syracuse clobbers Rutgers. 29
Hockey: Healy returns to Nassau. 28
More problems with substitute refs. 28
Devils tie Blues. 28
Horse Racing: Last hurrah for star horses. 31
Sports People 28
 
Editorials/Op-Ed 18-19
 
Editorials
Black children, white parents.
Seoul gets the shakes.
Mary Cantwell: Storm of '38.
Letters
Russell Baker: Keeping up with.
Clancy Sigal: The boys of Watergate.
Gary Krist: Tragedyland.
Susan Cohen: No end of paper.
 
Bridge 17
Chronicle 20
Crossword 13

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PERU (92%); YEMEN (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); TURKEY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (54%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (54%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PERU (92%); YEMEN (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); TURKEY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (54%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); CHRISTMAS (78%); ARMIES (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (77%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); CONTUSIONS (70%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); SPORT HUNTING (62%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (50%); 

PERSON: CLARENCE THOMAS (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1993



715 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: Bowing to U.N., Iraq Will Permit Arms Monitors

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 26

 BODY:
Bowing to the pressure of shortages, hunger and inflation arising from a three-year trade embargo, Iraq said today that it had finally agreed to let the United Nations start monitoring its industries on a long-term basis to insure it does not seek again to produce weapons of mass destruction.
The agreement, described by United Nations officials as a triumph for the Security Council in its long test of strength with President Saddam Hussein, would bring Iraq into compliance with one of the few remaining major cease-fire conditions set by the victorious Persian Gulf war allies after driving Iraqi forces from Kuwait in 1991.
 
Iraq Wants Ban Lifted
 Baghdad also called today for the immediate lifting of a ban on Iraqi oil sales that has deprived it of crucial revenue. But the Security Council has said it will not agree to this until it is satisfied that President Hussein has given a full accounting of his nuclear, chemical, biological and missile weapon programs and shows that he is cooperating with the industrial monitoring. 
 Even with full Iraqi compliance, diplomats said, the embargo would thus remain in force for several months.
In Washington, Clinton Administration officials took a cautious view of the Iraqi move, emphasizing that Iraq has still not provided all the information the United States wants about its weapons of mass destruction.
A State Department spokeswoman, Christine Shelly, called talk of lifting sanctions "clearly premature." Iraq has broken many promises in the past, she said, and must now "demonstrate on the ground over a sustained period of time it full cooperation with the monitoring and verification regime."
Iraq must also fill in "longstanding gaps and inconsistencies" in the accounts it has given of its weapon programs," she added.
Detailed talks on setting up new monitoring procedures will continue here into next week. An Iraqi delegation led by Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz is meeting here with the special commission established by the Security Council to oversee the dismantling of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction.
Over the last two and a half years, Iraq has repeatedly tried to hide nuclear equipment, denied arms inspectors access to industrial and military sites and refused to blow up military installations, before finally agreeing to comply.
Iraq informed the Security Council of its decision in a letter delivered today to the Council President. "I should like to inform you of the decision of the Government of Iraq to accept the obligations stated in Resolution 715 (1991)," wrote Foreign Minister Mohammed Said al-Sahaf, "and to comply with the provisions of the plans for monitoring and verification in accordance with said resolution."
Rolf Ekeus, the Swedish diplomat who leads the special commission on weapons destruction, said he interpreted this to mean that Iraq had accepted the detailed monitoring plans the Security Council has approved. "This means a major obstacle has been removed," he said.
 
Inventory of Sites
 Resolution 715, adopted in October 1991, required Iraq to provide a full inventory of plants and other sites involving potential weapons of mass destruction, as well as lists of machinery, chemicals and other materials that might be used in making such arms.
Mr. Ekeus described Baghdad's pledge as "a triumph for the Council"demonstrating that the sanctions and embargoes against Iraq have worked, "although it takes some time." He said the Security Council had "made it clear to the leadership in Iraq that there is no way out."
But Mr. Ekeus said that Iraq would have to provide him with more information about its programs to develop arms of mass destruction and its long-range missile program before he could verify to the Security Council that the country had abandoned all plans to acquire such weapons.
 
Call to End Oil Ban
 The Iraqi letter called on the Security Council to begin carrying out "its obligations towards Iraq as stated in Resolution 687," which set out the terms for ending the gulf war. It called for "immediate and full implementation of Paragraph 22 without any obstructions, limitations or additional conditions."
Paragraph 22 of Resolution 687 states that the ban on foreign purchases of Iraqi oil "shall have no further force or effect" once the Security Council is satisfied that Baghdad has fully complied with its obligation to give up its weapons of mass destruction and agreed to the long-term monitoring of its arms industry.
Before any reversal of the ban of oil sales, the Security Council is expected to adopt another resolution requiring that a third of such payments go into a special United Nations fund to compensate victims of the Kuwait invasion of Kuwait.
Iraq also alluded in the letter to a longstanding request that the United Nations inspectors use Iraqi helicopters in traveling about the country instead of aircraft loaned by the German Air Force.
 
Embargo Followed Invasion
 The United Nations approved the oil embargo on Aug. 6, 1990 -- days after Iraq's invasion of Kuwait -- as part of a broader package of economic sanctions that also barred Iraq from exporting or importing other goods.
Ambassador Ekeus said it would take his inspectors some months at the very least to prepare a monitoring "protocol" for every industry he wants to inspect and to set "baseline" rules for future inspections. He said his inspectors would want to watch any site that could be used to develop nuclear or chemical weapons, including pharmaceutical laboratories and breweries.
Before the special commission can report that it has even accounted for all potential weapons of mass destruction, Mr. Ekeus wants more information about Iraq's suppliers -- particularly providers of sensitive technology that Western companies are not supposed to export without permission.
Last week a team of international inspectors took earth, water and vegetable samples for analysis from a site in the southern Iraqi marshes where Shiite dissidents have accused the Iraqi Army of carrying out chemical weapons attacks in late September.
The C.I.A. has said it suspects Iraq may still be hiding about 100 banned Scud missiles, although the inspectors have not been able to find them.
 
Import Permission
 Even if the ban on Iraqi oil sales is lifted, Baghdad will still need to get the Security Council's clearance to import goods with the oil revenue it receives.
Under Resolution 687, the ban on sales to Iraq must also remain in force until the Security Council decides Baghdad is in full compliance with all relevant resolutions.
The Council must also be satisfied with "the policies and practices of the Government of Iraq," which means, among other things, that Baghdad must recognize its newly demarcated frontier with Kuwait and cease its attacks on the Shiites in the south and the Kurds in the north.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); GULF STATES (90%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ; MIDDLE EAST IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); GULF STATES (90%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSILES; EMBARGOES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) ; PERSIAN GULF WAR; CHEMICAL WARFARE; BIOLOGICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); APPROVALS (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); 

PERSON: HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ; LEWIS, PAUL SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1993



716 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: Business Digest

 BODY:

The Economy
Shoppers turned out in large numbers for the opening day of the Christmas retail season. But in Atlanta, at least, the big draw wasn't the merchandise so much as the prospect of discounts and early-bird specials. Some showed hesitancy to buy until they were satisfied with a gift's price and utility, and many came with coupons and plans to shop for the best prices. [Page 35.] 
 The Southeast's economy is outpacing the rest of the country as the nation climbs out of recession, reflecting the changing balance of economic power. The region is adding jobs and people substantially faster than the nation as a whole and cementing its status as the nation's favored location for new manufacturing plants. [1.]
The aging freight tracks threading through New York City and Long Island may be key to the region's economic future, planners say, because the area's highways are clogged with trucks. [1.]
 
Companies
The struggle between A.T.& T., MCI and Sprint for long-distance customers is intensifying as technology expands the number of calls that phone networks can carry and competition from cable companies and local carriers grows. [35.]
A proxy fight for ICN Pharmaceuticals by Rafi Khan was blocked by a Federal judge, who said the stockbroker appeared to have lied in solicitations of support to ICN shareholders. [38.]
The Delaware Supreme Court will rule Monday on whether it will hear Paramount Communications' appeal of an order blocking the entertainment company's merger with Viacom. [38.]
Alltel will buy a 10 percent limited partnership stake in GTE's Dallas cellular telephone system for $120 million in cash. [38.]
Fourth Financial of Wichita, Kan., is the champion buyer of banks, with 26 acquisitions since the late 1980's. [38.]
 
Markets
The stock market felt the effects of a sharp drop in oil prices. Shares in big oil producers dragged down the Dow industrial average, which slipped 3.63, while transportation issues rose. [35.]
Mexican stocks surged in a positive reaction to the Government's proposed new foreign investment law. [36.]
Treasury bond prices posted sharp gains, buoyed by the positive effect of falling oil prices on expectations of inflation. [39.]
The dollar posted modest gains and gold was mostly lower overseas. [46.] Lumber futures rose to eight-month highs. [46.]
 
International
An auditor's study commissioned by Volkswagen exonerated the company of industrial espionage accusations in its trade secrets dispute with G.M. VW also said it expected to lose about $1.1 billion in 1993 and sees no improvement next year. [35.]
Japanese share prices plunged amid news that banks' bad loans had risen and business lending was sluggish. The Government also said retail sales had fallen 3.6 percent in October. [35.]
Iraq bowed to pressures of shortages, hunger and inflation from a three-year trade embargo and agreed to let the United Nations monitor its weapons production. [1.]
 
Your Money
Low-cost term life insurance can be the answer to the perplexing questions of how much and what type of coverage to buy. [33.]
Investors seeking socially conscious companies must do their homework to determine a company's true ethics. [33.]
Contributing to charities anonymously may help donors avoid the nuisances of aggressive future solicitations. [33.]
Some bond mutual funds investing in high yielding but risky exotic securities have suffered setbacks. [34.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); WICHITA, KS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VIACOM INC (54%); DELAWARE SUPREME COURT (54%); DELAWARE SUPREME COURT (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: DELAWARE SUPREME COURT (54%); DELAWARE SUPREME COURT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); WICHITA, KS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (75%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (74%); RETAIL SALES (73%); FUTURES (73%); CABLE INDUSTRY (72%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (72%); BONDS (72%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); MERGERS (70%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (69%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (67%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (65%); JUDGES (65%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (62%); BOND MARKETS (62%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (60%); TRADE SECRETS LAW (60%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (60%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%); ESPIONAGE (60%); TREASURY SECURITIES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1993



717 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: Mexican Bull Rides Higher

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Nov. 26

 BODY:
Mexican stocks surged again today as investors reacted positively to the Government's proposed foreign investment law.
The Mexican stock exchange's index of 37 issues rose 30.06 points, or 1.35 percent, to a record close of 2,261.20. The gain came atop Thursday's surge of 67.07 points. 
 The Mexican Government disclosed details of the proposed law on Thursday, which would open many sectors of the economy to foreign investment. President Carlos Salinas de Gortari has sent the legislation to Congress, where approval is all but certain, given his party's dominance there.
Traders here said that the proposal was prolonging a kind of euphoria in the stock market, already bolstered by the United States approval of the North American Free Trade Agreement.
Among the stocks showing large gains today was the media giant Televisa, as well as two construction companies, Empresas Ica Sociedad Controladora and Tribasa.
More details emerged today on the proposed legislation. Under it, Mexico will allow foreigners to invest in oil-drilling companies and in companies that build oil and gas pipelines.
The bill restricts foreigners to minority stakes in such companies under ordinary circumstances, but allows stakes higher than 49 percent with approval by regulators.
The measure continues to bar foreign and private investors from owning the country's oil and gas reserves. These will remain in Mexican state control.
A spokeswoman for Pemex, the state oil monopoly, said the law would not affect the company's operations.
The measure also provided for less privatization of oil and natural gas than some Government officials and press accounts had suggested.
Officials were quoted as saying that the Government was considering allowing foreign and private companies to build and operate natural-gas pipelines for their own use and even to import their own supplies of natural gas, instead of depending on Pemex.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ICA (NYSE) (90%); ICA (BMV) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (90%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (90%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (90%); SIC1623 WATER, SEWER, PIPELINE, & COMMUNICATIONS & POWER LINE CONSTRUCTION (90%); SIC1622 BRIDGE, TUNNEL, & ELEVATED HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION (90%); SIC1531 OPERATIVE BUILDERS (90%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: EMPRESAS ICA SAB DE CV (90%); PETROLEOS MEXICANOS (PEMEX) (84%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); APPROVALS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NATURAL GAS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (88%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (87%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (87%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (74%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (74%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); PRIVATIZATION (73%); BONDS (73%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (72%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (72%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); OIL EXTRACTION (67%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (67%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (65%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (58%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); 

PERSON: CARLOS SALINAS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1993



718 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 2995 words

HEADLINE: Economic Pulse: The Southeast;
In Race to Outrun Recession, Southeast Sets Dazzling Pace

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GREENSBORO, N.C.

 BODY:
The Southeast is outpacing the rest of the country as the nation climbs out of recession, reflecting a long, slow process of growth in the South and the changing balance of economic power in America.
Whether in increasingly prominent areas of growth like Atlanta, Nashville or Charlotte or more obscure ones like the Greensboro/ Winston-Salem/High Point area here, the Southeast is adding jobs and people substantially faster than the nation and cementing its status as the nation's favored location for new manufacturing plants. 
 "Unemployment rates are around 4 percent throughout North Carolina," said Mark Vitner, an economist with First Union Bank in Charlotte. "Atlanta has added more jobs than any other city in the country in the last year. When you look at state-to-state migration, you see that people are moving to the South, because that's where all the jobs are."
 
Rich-and-Poor Gap
 But the growth comes in a region in which the gap between rich and poor is the largest in the nation and still widening. And it is no longer clear whether the advantages the South has in the national economy will mean as much in the emerging international one. As a result, some of the economic fears in much of the nation remain pervasive in the South as well.
Still, the positive trends for the South are widespread and diverse. This spring, economic activity in the Southeast grew at roughly twice the national rate, 4 percent versus 1.9 percent. Florida led the nation in population growth from 1990 to 1992, adding almost 500,000 residents. Every Southern state exceeded the nation's population growth rate.
For the first two quarters of 1992, job growth in the South was more than double that of the nation, with a regional job gain of 2.2 percent, as against 1 percent nationally. Long-suffering Mississippi, still the nation's poorest state, led the nation in the percentage of jobs created over the past year.
North Carolina led the nation from 1990 to 1992 in new manufacturing plants and major expansions, with 725. Of the top 12 states in manufacturing growth, nine were in the South. Last year 22 new manufacturing plants came to this area, known as the Piedmont Triad, the second largest increase in the nation, after Charlotte. In October, North Carolina had the lowest unemployment rate of the nation's major industrial states, at 4.8 percent. California had the highest at 9.8 percent.
Atlanta added 72,100 jobs over the past year, more than any other metropolitan area. Charlotte was second. Sales tax revenue showed healthy increases in most Southeast states.
 
Problem of Poverty
 To a distressing degree, the progress coexists with entrenched and sometimes worsening poverty.
David Birch, a Boston-based expert on entrepreneurial activity, recently completed a report that concluded that four of the nation's top five centers of entrepreneurial activity -- Charlotte, Atlanta, Nashville and the Raleigh-Durham area -- were in the South. The fifth was Indianapolis. But he was quick to add that this did not reflect a broad regional prosperity in the South.
"It's not like all the South is suddenly like Charlotte," he said. "As the growth in the United States slows down, you're going to have a few bright green islands in a huge mudflat. And a lot of the South is going to be mudflat."
But in a nation where the economic reversals of the past few years have taken a psychological as well as a financial toll on many regions, what most distinguishes the South may be the degree of optimism throughout the region.
There are fears for the future in the South, particularly in areas dependent on low-wage industries like apparel manufacturing. But more common is a sense that the South's current success reflects a long-term economic tide sweeping its way.
"The notion of the American dream, the sense that your children will do as well or better than you, is alive and well in the South," said Wayne Gantt an economist in Atlanta. "It's very bruised in California. It's taken a hit in New England. In the South, people still think their kids can do better than they're doing."
 
The Boom
The South Rises Again
 Greensboro, long synonymous with textile manufacturing, is not one of the glamour locations in the South, like Raleigh-Durham to the east or Charlotte to the south.
But the Greensboro/Winston-Salem/High Point area, with 1.2 million people spread out over 11 counties, is a good reflection of the region's current success.
Unemployment stands at 4 percent, and the 2.2 percent job growth of 12,500 jobs over the past year is well ahead of the national average. While the nation saw manufacturing jobs fall by 2.3 percent over the past year, they rose by 1 percent here. North Carolina now has a higher percentage of its jobs in manufacturing, 26.4 percent, than anywhere else in the nation.
And the manufacturing is increasingly sophisticated. Long rooted in textiles and tobacco, the area's manufacturing has expanded into pharmaceuticals, automotive parts and electronics in recent years as it has become the manufacturing center complementing the banking hub at Charlotte and the research, education and service axis in Raleigh-Durham.
Across the region, the South is succeeding by doing a lot of things well. The most vulnerable sector is the kind of low-skill manufacturing that was once the backbone of the South's economy. The most recent quarterly forecast by Georgia State University says the weakest segment of the South's economy is nondurable manufacturing like apparel production.
But Tennessee is doing well because of the expansion of the auto industry around Nashville. Mississippi is benefiting largely from gambling and the opening of 10 riverboat casinos. Charlotte's economy, based on banking, services and manufacturing is doing so well the 3.7 percent unemployment rate is raising fear of worker shortages. The manufacturing jobs range from low-wage chicken plants to high-wage auto plants, with automobiles, industrial and electronic machinery, lumber, and food processing doing particularly well.
 
I-85's Route to Prosperity
 "The South has a small plus in manufacturing jobs, but the nation is a fairly large minus, so to have any plus at all is a great performance," said Donald Ratajczak, director of the Economic Forecasting Center at Georgia State University in Atlanta.
Much of the growth is in expected places. The Interstate-85 corridor in North Carolina alone added 75,000 new jobs in the past year. A recent report by Ernst & Young, the accounting and consulting firm, said the 300-mile-long Interstate-85 corridor from Raleigh-Durham to Atlanta offers the nation's best potential for business locations in the 1990's.
But even some of the economic laggards of the Deep South are doing well. Tupelo, Miss., whose previous claim to fame was as Elvis Presley's birthplace, has quietly become one of the furniture manufacturing capitals of the world and a place that is adding about 1,000 jobs a year, many of them in sophisticated manufacturing.
"We've already done $120 million worth of plant investment this year, and before the calendar year is over, we could easily do $200 million," said Harry A. Martin, president of Tupelo's Community Development Foundation. "We have plants here from Australia, from the Netherlands, from Brazil, from Switzerland. We barely knew about the recent recession that everybody talked about so much."
 
The Reasons
Five Secrets Of Success
 In part the South has been succeeding because of its traditional attributes of cheaper labor, land and living costs, a lack of unions and its more relaxed, warm-weather way of life. Also helping is an aging population more likely to move South and a maturing regional banking and finance system in which Charlotte is now the nation's third largest banking center.
In addition, with the exception of Virginia, which is lagging behind the rest of the region, and Charleston, S.C., most of the South has not been hit as hard by military cutbacks as California and some other states.
But at least five factors are particularly significant at a time states and regions are increasingly competing with one another for jobs and industry.
First is the importance of the international economy.
Long before the contemporary vogue for all things international, Southern promoters, particularly in the Carolinas, were beating the bushes for European investment. By the early 1970's, half the foreign industrial development in the nation was coming in the South. Spartanburg, S.C., alone had attracted 24 foreign companies. It now has 83 from 13 countries, including the B.M.W. manufacturing plant being constructed near Greer that will provide 2,000 jobs.
And from the Japanese in Tennessee to the Dutch in Atlanta, the South is increasingly seeing sales, investment and new regional headquarters from overseas companies. It is an advantage for the region that seems certain to continue, spurred in part by the regional marketing bonanza of the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta.
Second is the momentum provided by decades of outpacing the nation in industrial and manufacturing growth. The high-profile locations of Mercedes in Alabama, B.M.W. in South Carolina, Nissan and Saturn in Tennessee, and Toyota in Kentucky in recent years, plus the myriad of suppliers and satellite industries they attract, are only the most conspicuous part of what many see as a new industrial axis drawing other companies in its wake.
"Imagine an oval that begins in your mind at Indianapolis," said Carlton Schwab, a senior consultant with PHH Fantus Consulting, in Chicago, one of the nation's leading site-selection consultants.
"You go left or west through Illinois or maybe to Kansas City, down to Texarkana and then across the top of the south back through Birmingham, Tuscaloosa, over down as far as Macon and then over through the Carolinas. That is where most of the new manufacturing investment in the United States is taking place. Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia, Tennessee, parts of Alabama are in that oval and are taking advantage of it."
The third factor in the South's success is a long history of and near mania for industrial recruiting and economic development.
There is growing debate, both in and outside the South, over whether the inducements and tax breaks used to lure companies have got out of hand. Some experts, like James C. Cobb of University of Tennessee, author of "The Selling of the South" (University of Illinois Press), a history of Southern industrialization, say the South has given up many of the advantages of industrialization, like adequate tax revenues to provide adequate social services, by being overly generous to industry. But at a time of ever fiercer competition for jobs, the South's history of modest regulation and concrete inducements for industry is forcing other states to play a game the South has pioneered.
 
California No Longer Smug
 "For years a state like California would snub their nose at the South and say we don't have to go chasing around the world for capital like the frequent flier Governors of the South do," said Douglas Woodward, an economist at the University of South Carolina. "It was a smug attitude, and it takes a good recession to wring it out."
Fourth, surprisingly, is education.
Many parts of the South retain their status at the bottom of the nation's educational heap. But the education gap that long scarred the South has been narrowed, if hardly obliterated. For example, Fortune magazine recently named the Raleigh-Durham area, home of Duke University, North Carolina State, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and the Research Triangle Park, this year's best place for business.
The South still has some of the worst public schools in the country, and the parlous state of education is one of the factors holding back the Deep South laggards like Mississippi, Alabama and Louisiana. But states like North Carolina and South Carolina have been innovators in using technical schools and community colleges for job training and vocational education, which is one of the prime attractions for industries in places like Greensboro.
The fifth factor is the South's quality of life, an intangible consideration that is increasingly important as advances in technology and communications make it possible to do most businesses almost anywhere.
With warmer weather, newer roads, bridges and highways, cheaper housing and at least a perception of less crime, cities like Charlotte, Nashville and Atlanta are offering an easier style of urban life than the nation's older cities. That is particularly significant as many residents of older areas from Los Angeles to New York are looking for alternatives.
To some experts the bottom line has less to do with what the South is doing right than an economic balancing act played out over time in which economic inequalities tend to even out.
"I think the main thing the South has going for it is the lower cost of living, and there's just not a whole lot other areas can do about that," said Mr. Woodward of South Carolina. "I think it's just sort of the South's turn."
But throughout the region, there is the sense that just as the Sun Belt boom of the 1970's marked the re-emergence of the region, the 1990's are marking its maturation.
 
The Gloomy Side
Deep Poverty Casts a Shadow
 Still, if this is the South's time, it is often a conflicted, edgy one.
For almost every rosy statistic there is another that is a reminder of how tenuous and incomplete the South's progress has been. Vast stretches of the South from eastern North Carolina to the South Carolina Low Country and from the Alabama Black Belt to the Mississippi Delta remain mired in some of the nation's worst poverty.
"The South, like the rest of the nation, is developing a two-track economy, two-track work force and two-track life style," said Bob Hall, of the Institute for Southern Studies, a research organization in Durham. "There are more B.M.W.'s in the South, and there are more mobile homes, and these days there's a sense of anxiety among ordinary working people that's almost palpable."
To an alarming extent, poverty has not only persisted but increased as the South's prospects have improved.
During the 1980's, as cities like Atlanta and Charlotte boomed and the region outperformed the nation, the number of Southerners living in poverty rose by 8.9 percent, and the percentage of residents living in poverty increased in Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, South Carolina, Texas and Virginia.
A 1992 study by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a nonprofit advocacy and research group, found that of the 10 states with the widest gaps between those at the top of the income ladder and those at the bottom, eight were in the South. Even more ominously, of those states where the gap widened the most in 1980's, five were in the South.
 
Some Troubled Industries
 And if some places like Tupelo and Greensboro can boast of new high-productivity manufacturing jobs, many of the South's manufacturing jobs remain in the imperiled apparel industry or in low-wage, high-stress chicken and catfish processing, like the Imperial Food Products chicken processing plant in Hamlet, N.C., where a fire two years ago killed 25 people and injured 56 others.
One of the South's great coups of the 1990's has been the decision of B.M.W. to locate a $350 million manufacturing plant near Greer, S.C., that will provide 1,200 jobs by 1996 and 2,000 by 2000.
So far, 55,000 people have applied for jobs, a demand so intense the plant will only take applications by mail.
"What used to be the Bible Belt is now the industrial belt, but you go 40 miles from an interstate highway, and it's the Old South," said a B.M.W. spokesman, Bobby Hitt. "It's still poor. It's still backwater."
To many experts, the 55,000 job seekers are more significant than the 2,000 jobs.
"Leading the economy in 1993 is not the same as doing it in 1963 would have been," said Professor Cobb, the author and historian. "It's not just that the South has risen, it's that the rest of the economy has sunk."
 
The Murky Future
Trade Pact Raises Difficult Questions
 If the debate about the North American Free Trade Agreement was searing nationally, it had particular resonance in the South because it got to the heart of just what kind of a place the South is today.
To its supporters, the agreement is a natural for a region that has newer, more productive manufacturing, more entrepreneurial hustle, closer geographic ties to Mexico and more of a history of foreign trade and exporting than the rest of the nation. A study of the trade agreement by the Carter Center of Emory University says that six Southeastern states have seen their trade with Mexico grow by 273 percent from 1987 to 1992, the fastest growth rate in the nation.
To its detractors, the accord represents the South's getting bit by its own dog. They say that a region that has used low costs to lure industry will now see the same industries go farther south, to Mexico. More than 30 percent of the jobs in all the Southern states except Florida and Virginia are blue-collar, as against 25.6 percent nationwide.
To be sure, there is some evidence to support both sides of the debate. But Southern representatives supported the trade agreement in the House by a bigger margin than those from any other region. The accord may or may not provide the benefits its backers say it will. But the support reflects the degree to which Southerners increasingly believe the first view of the South is more telling than the second.
"Success generally breeds success, and this is really helping the South," Mr. Schwab said. "They're sending a signal out that 'Hey, we're not a backwater. We're one of the leading economic engines, not only in the United States, but of the world.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Students and teachers from the Atlanta area painting a fence that surrounds the construction site for the new stadium for the 1996 Olympic Games. The Games are expected to spur an already sizable foreign investment in the region, which has seen economic growth in recent years, while economies in other parts of the nation have declined. (Associated Press) (pg. 8)
 
Graph shows 10 ten state for number of new plants built, 1990-1992. (Source: First Union Corporation) (pg. 1)
 
Graphs: "The Solid Southeast, Economically Speaking"' shows employment figures, number of new jobs and new residents in region. (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics and Census Bureau, compiled by First Union Corporation) (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (92%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (91%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FIRST UNION BANK OF CONNECTICUT (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTHEASTERN STATES (US); NORTH CAROLINA; FLORIDA; GEORGIA; GREENSBORO (NC) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (92%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (91%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; POPULATION SHIFTS ; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; RELOCATION OF PERSONNEL; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; INCOME ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); TRENDS (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); CITIES (69%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (68%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (60%); SALES TAX (50%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1993



719 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Plans Change in the Law Banning Military Aid to Pakistan

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 26

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration is proposing the repeal of a law that has barred American military aid to Pakistan because of that country's efforts to develop a nuclear bomb. But State Department officials insisted today that they did not intend to lift sanctions against Pakistan.
The Administration proposal, in a draft of a new foreign aid bill recently sent to Congress, would repeal the so-called Pressler Amendment, which bans military aid to Pakistan unless the President can certify that Pakistan neither possesses nuclear weapons nor is trying to develop them. 
 In place of the amendment, named after Senator Larry Pressler, Republican of South Dakota, the Administration would substitute generic language in which no specific country is named.
 
Inspections Are Sought
 The provision would ban American assistance to any "nonnuclear weapon states" that have equipment capable of enriching or reprocessing fissionable materials for nuclear weapons, unless the country submits to inspections by the International Atomic Energy Agency to insure that the reprocessing is for civilian purposes.
Pakistan would still not qualify for American aid under the proposed change.
"Pakistan remains under Pressler Amendment sanctions in accordance with U.S. law," the State Department said today in a statement. "Even if a new foreign assistance act without specific language on Pakistan were passed, we would continue to apply Pressler standards to Pakistan."
But some in Congress note that the proposed bill allows the President to waive economic sanctions against a country that may be building a nuclear bomb if he determines it is in the national interest to do so. Those critics say the Administration's proposal thus weakens the Pressler Amendment, which contains no waiver provision.
 
'Wonderful Smokescreen'
 "It's a wonderful smokescreen," said an aide to Mr. Pressler. "The State Department has always wanted to get rid of the Pressler Amendment because it has no waiver."
The Pressler Amendment, enacted in 1985, states that as long as Pakistan has a nuclear bomb or the main components of a bomb, "no technology shall be sold or transferred to Pakistan."
For five years, the Reagan and Bush Administrations certified that Islamabad did not possess the cability to detonate a nuclear bomb, a finding widely considered to be a good will effort toward a country that was helping guerrillas fight Soviet forces in Afghanistan.
In 1990, after Soviet soldiers had withdrawn from Afghanistan, the Bush Administration stopped protecting Pakistan from the amendment's sanctions and the aid was cut off.
 
Rapid Ability Estimated
 Central Intelligence Agency analysts have estimated that Pakistan has the ability to assemble a nuclear bomb relatively quickly.
Clinton Administration officials say the proposal to repeal the Pressler Amendment arises from a desire to eliminate references to specific countries in the foreign aid bill to give the Administration more flexibility in conducting foreign policy. This year, Congress did eliminate most of the wording known as "earmarks," references to specific countries in the bill. "Pressler got caught up in a general cleansing of foreign assistance legislation," one State Department official said in reference to the amendment. "In fact, Pressler was the one item that we thought the hardest about, because we understood how important it was to certain members of Congress, and the importance of the issue of proliferation."
Some State Department officials note that the proposal is contained in what is termed a "discussion draft" of the foreign aid bill.
The bill is a kind of trial balloon in which the Administration is floating a number of ideas to gauge Congressional reaction. One official said that if the proposal to repeal the Pressler Amendment touched off a storm of criticism in Congress, the amendment probably would be retained.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (56%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (56%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PAKISTAN; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (98%); PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; LAW AND LEGISLATION INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ARMED FORCES (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HOLMES, STEVEN A; PRESSLER, LARRY (SEN) RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1993



720 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Beliefs

BYLINE: By Peter Steinfels

 BODY:
"Finally," President Clinton said at a convention of black ministers two weeks ago, "we may be ready to do something about it."
Mr. Clinton was speaking from the pulpit in Memphis where the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. delivered his last sermon. The "it" that the President hoped the nation might finally confront was the blight of crime, drugs, joblessness and family disintegration that has cast such a shadow on Dr. King's dream. A political column in The Washington Post by E. J. Dionne termed President Clinton's speech "the most important of his 10-month-old Presidency." 
 Why? Because in dealing with the problems haunting black America, Mr. Clinton was linking the typically liberal emphasis on government actions to foster employment and economic security with the typically conservative emphasis on buttressing family stability, moral values and personal responsibility.
This theme of a moral and cultural revolution has cropped up more and more in White House pronouncements ever since Hillary Rodham Clinton's speech last April about the "politics of meaning."
There are models for this kind of moral and cultural revolution. Two centuries ago, England was hit with a wave of evangelical piety -- the Methodism of Mrs. Clinton's forebears -- combined with Romantic sentimentality, no-nonsense doctrines of self-help and new economic opportunities. A land of libertine aristocrats and displaced country folk marinating themselves in various gin lanes was transformed into a land of middle-class and working-class Victorian respectability.
Whatever the losses, the result was almost certainly a kinder, gentler environment for women and children.
Those who believe that a cultural stiffening of personal standards is still possible point to recent small-scale examples. The culture now stigmatizes, and sometimes even heavily penalizes, behavior that once was taken for granted: anti-Semitism, overt racism, cigarette smoking, public celebration of drug use and the routine designation of stereotypical roles or traits to women. Success is less than total, but the changes are real.
Have things reached the point when society will mobilize, as President Clinton hopes, for a similar cultural revolution in regard to the interlocking triangle of family breakdown, crime-ridden neighborhoods and joblessness?
Are passage of the Brady gun-control bill, the Rev. Jesse Jackson's campaign against inner-city violence and Janet Reno's jabs at televised mayhem straws in the wind? Or are they well-meant but feeble gestures, substitutes for the decisive and possibly costly measures that society is unwilling to take?
Adding urgency to these questions are the data first presented by the author and researcher Charles Murray in The Wall Street Journal.
The nation, he noted, is approaching the point where one of every three children will be born to an unmarried mother. In 1991, 22 percent of the white births were to single women, most of them with low incomes and less than a high school education. The illegitimacy birthrate among white women is nearing the 25 percent that Mr. Murray believes is a kind of tipping point.
Twenty-five percent was the black illegitimacy rate that moved Daniel Patrick Moynihan in 1965 to write his much-debated Government memorandum warning about the state of the black family. Since then, that rate has gone to 68 percent -- and more than 80 percent in many urban neighborhoods -- with parallel increases in crime and dropping out of the work force, developments that Mr. Murray views as linked to fatherless children.
"The single most important social problem of our time," Mr. Murray said, is the emergence of a "critical mass" of fatherless children. It is the crucial factor, he argued, in poverty, crime, drugs, illiteracy -- the whole snarl of social pathologies.
A lot of people agree with Mr. Murray about that, but don't agree with his proposed solution: abolish all economic support for single mothers, all welfare, all food stamps and all housing subsidies (he somewhat begrudgingly exempts medical care).
By throwing poor young mothers and their babies on the benevolence of parents, relatives, boyfriends, neighbors, churches and charities, Mr. Murray expects to detonate one of those cultural and moral revolutions.
The threat of this economic burden would jolt families and communities to reinstate all the forces --like promoting chastity, chaperoning, contraception, abortion, ready adoption, shotgun marriages and social stigma, generally -- that operate against conceiving, bearing or keeping fatherless children.
Leave aside the reasons that this proposal might not work. Even if it did, in the meantime fatherless children and their unmarried mothers would bear the brunt of the change. In effect, they are hostages who would be threatened with disaster in order to restore social discipline.
This is a draconian solution. If strong measures are required, why not ones that might impinge on the more comfortable segments of society, rather than on the most vulnerable?
For example, should the marketing edge obtained by blatant sexual appeals, verbal shock tactics or displays of violence be held as socially despicable as racist demagoguery? Should newspapers and television voluntarily forgo advertising such products and personalities?
Down that route, of course, lies financial disadvantage and what might be even more frightening for the culturally influential, the specter of Victorian respectability.
To what extent are pacesetters in the entertainment industry ready to give up the excitement of breaking taboos or to take seriously the possibility that an environment saturated with images of sex and violence might be linked to the self-destructive behavior of 15-year-olds?
"Finally, we may be ready to do something about it," President Clinton told the black ministers. The President and the ministers may be ready. It is not clear that many of the nation's other cultural leaders are equally determined.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (90%); 

CITY: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (57%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); TENNESSEE, USA (90%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; BLACKS (IN US); ETHICS; ILLEGITIMACY; WELFARE (US); URBAN AREAS; TEENAGERS; WOMEN ; CHILDREN AND YOUTH US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); WOMEN (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); ETHICS (73%); RACE & RACISM (73%); RELIGION (66%); GUN CONTROL (60%); SINGLE PARENTS (60%); SMOKING (50%); 

PERSON: STEINFELS, PETER; MURRAY, CHARLES; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JESSE JACKSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1993



721 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: Armed for Shopping, But Often Just Looking

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Nov. 26

 BODY:
Merchants had no trouble whipping shoppers into a frenzy today, luring some from hours away to be first in line when stores opened. By 9:20 A.M., four cars outside the Lenox Square Shopping Center here had a nearly calamitous convergence where just one was pulling out.
But here, as in much of the United States, the big draw on the traditional opening day of the Christmas shopping season wasn't the merchandise so much as the prospect of big discounts and early-bird specials. 
 If consumers are showing some renewed willingness to spend, those crowding the stores today didn't whip out their wallets until they were satisfied with a gift's price and utility.
 
 
The Deal's the Thing
 And many came prepared, armed with coupons, lists and the patience to shop around for a better deal.
Charlotte Doyle and Patricia Boone rose before 5 A.M. to drive down from Cartersville in north Georgia, pick up a friend in the Atlanta suburbs and gather in the darkness by the doors of the Rich's department store at Lenox Square before it opened at 7 A.M.
Clutching a sheaf of discount coupons good only until 10 A.M., they appeared more intent on buying what they needed than adding to their Christmas expenses.
Their friend Bobbie White, in need of a coat, settled on a marked-down leather model. Pushing a coupon across the counter that saved her an additional 10 percent, she asked, "Because I'm the first customer, do I get another 20 percent off?"
The woman behind the cash register smirked. "If that happened, I would be the first customer," she said.
Mrs. White was just warming up. "Twenty-four coupons, ladies," she announced, turning to her friends. "Twenty-three to go."
 
 
Look Now, Pay Later
 Despite heavy traffic today, more and more of the actual buying comes later. Last year, the Friday after Thanksgiving did not even rank among the 10 busiest days in sales, which were all closer to Christmas, said Isaac Lagnado, an owner of the Tactical Retail Solutions consulting firm. "It's a game of chicken that the consumer plays with the retailer," he said. "More often than not, the retailer blinks first."
Laura Leick was doing some Christmas looking at Tiffany & Company at a mall just across the intersection from Lenox Square. "I'm just kind of getting ideas about what's out here," she said as she took in a glistening panorama of silver, crystal and jewels.
But when it comes time to do her Christmas shopping, Mrs. Leick, a middle manager for Delta Air Lines, knows where she will end up. "For him, Home Depot," she said, nodding toward her husband, who was browsing a couple of counters away. "Power tools."
Downpours in Atlanta today and cold weather across much of the rest of the country limited the turnout somewhat. In Atlanta, malls were more crowded than stand-alone stores or shops at strip shopping centers. Snow and ice in Dallas, St. Louis and Minneapolis kept some shoppers away early in the day, retailers said.
 But after 12 percent sales gains last year on a burst of post-election optimism, retailing experts are so far apart in their Christmas predictions that they are listening to every whisper of consumer sentiment.
In Atlanta, they could hear shoppers intent on spending at least as much as last year, but without the income gains to spend much more. Just as corporations are scrutinizing every expense, so are their employees.
 
 
A Favorite Trial Market
 "I don't think we're going to go overboard," said Mrs. Leick, heading out of Tiffany to the Museum Shop, where presents were more likely to cost $20 than $200 or $2,000. Delta was trying to cut costs and restore its profits, she said, adding, "We just got a pay cut of 5 percent."
The Atlanta region, with 2.8 million people, represents the nation's shopping habits so well that it is a favorite trial market for new products. Outside the downtown, malls often sit at the center of communities lacking town squares or business districts.
Nationally, retailers have enjoyed a recent spurt of spending, but economists say much of it represents delayed purchases of furniture, cars, refrigerators and other large items unlikely to be found under a Christmas tree.
"I'm buying less for everybody," said Nancy Akin, looking over the housewares at Rich's. "Every time I buy less, it will be a gift from them to me for fixing up our house."
Ms. Akin and her mother, Nancy, have just finished painting and they need drapes and lighting fixtures. "When everything starts falling down, it's time to do something," her mother said.
Some customers at Tiffany were not quite so conservative. The store manager said the number of shoppers gathering outside the doors long before the normal 10 A.M. opening persuaded him to welcome them in at 9:30. Two promptly bought pearl-and-diamond brooches for $5,900 each.
 
 
High Hopes for Discounters
 A Kmart less than 10 minutes away, however, was ready to open at 7 A.M. Some retailing experts expect discounters to register the season's largest gains.
Demetrius Jackson, who is about to enter college, and his brother Corey, a high school student, were willing to spend their savings from part-time grocery store jobs on a desk for their mother, but not without plenty of research. "This is the first place," said Corey, pulling open the drawers on a do-it-yourself kit at Kmart for $135, marked down from $179.95. "We've got to check around."
Next stop, Service Merchandise. "And Rich's," Demetrius said. "And Macy's," Corey added.
A Home Depot a couple of strip centers away attracted some shoppers who had been checking prices by phone. William and Barbara Wylly found a $23.83 solid brass kickplate for the front door of the house their daughter had just bought, though they couldn't find matching carriage lamps for the doorposts.
"Do we need doorknobs, too?" Mrs. Wylly asked as they passed a display.
"No, dear," her husband said, steering toward the cash register.
Home Depot, which calls Atlanta its home, has come to personify warehouse chic, all cinder block and ceiling-high steel racks. Now it is exploiting its role as a Christmas destination.
Antoinette Armstrong, wearing an orange carpenter's apron, spent much of the day lavishing a new counter with gold garlands, poinsettias, red ribbons and Christmas lights. "Gift Certificates," a banner proclaimed.
"We did such a good business in gift certificates last year," Ms. Armstrong said, "that now I get to decorate."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Melissa Hamby of Marietta, Ga., picking a handful of cherubs and other seasonal items as she shopped yesterday at Macy's in Atlanta. (Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TIF (NYSE) (62%); DAL (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (62%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (62%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (62%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: TIFFANY & CO (62%); RICH'S DEPARTMENT STORES INC (55%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; HOLIDAY TRADE; CHRISTMAS RETAILERS (93%); CHRISTMAS (90%); RETAIL COUPONS (78%); HOME CENTERS (78%); THANKSGIVING (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1993



722 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

TRYING TO GET THE TRACKS BACK
Many policy planners say the area's highways have become so congested with trucks that the revival of railroad freight tracks may well be vital to further economic growth. The first halting steps in that direction are already under way. The Long Island Rail Road expects to move 17 percent more freight this year than in 1991. Another company that hopes to profit through the increase in rail freight is the New York Cross Harbor Terminal Corporation, which operates barges that carry freight trains from Jersey City to Brooklyn. Page 1.
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
MIDTOWN COURT, SEVEN WEEKS LATER
In its seventh week of business, the Midtown Community Court is gamely struggling with how to mete out punishment, community payback and social services under one roof. Earnestness and optimism still abound, but reality keeps butting in: since the court opened its doors, many defendants have shown up two or three times, already rearrested for the same crime. Page 1. 

TKTS BOOTH CLOSING IN BROOKLYN
The TKTS booth at Cadman Plaza in downtown Brooklyn, operated by the Fund for the Borough of Brooklyn, will slam its shutters for the last time, ending an eight-year run of offering discount theater tickets at the site, and loyal theatergoers were fuming. Page 22.
 
INQUIRY IN TUNNEL ACCIDENT BEGINS
Like explorers on a fantastic journey into the center of the earth, a team of investigators descended into an enormously deep steel-and-concrete shaft at a construction site in Queens to examine tangled wreckage and the winch that fell in, killing one worker. The investigators reported no progress in the search for the cause of the accident, which happened Wednesday at Grand Avenue and Page Place in Maspeth, at a site for the construction of New York City's Third Water Tunnel. Page 23.
 
 REGION
 
WHITMAN FACING SCHOOLS ISSUE
When Christine Todd Whitman takes office next January, she will face an issue that has plagued New Jersey governors for a quarter century and that helped bring down Jim Florio. The issue is equality of education in the public schools: how the schools can serve the poor children of the cities as well as they serve the more affluent children of the suburbs. Typically, the dispute is couched in money: how much school districts spend per pupil and how much they can collect in property taxes. Page 24.
 
BILL TO REIN IN CUSTODIANS IS SIGNED
Gov. Cuomo announced that he had signed a bill giving greater control over New York City school custodians to principals and the Board of Education. The new law enables the Board of Education to set performance standards for the cleanliness and maintenance of the schools and allows principals to evaluate custodians by those standards. Page 25.
 
DEBATE OVER NASSAU BUDGET
Less than a month after Nassau County Executive Thomas S. Gulotta, newly re-elected, announced in Mineola that he was proposing a "tax freeze" budget that would eliminate a deficit of at least $39 million, opponents say the plan is full of false promises and raises taxes. Page 25.
 
About New York by Michael T. Kaufman 23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS493110 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (57%); SIC4214 LOCAL TRUCKING WITH STORAGE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: TERMINAL CORP (57%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (58%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (58%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS RAIL FREIGHT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (85%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (85%); LEGISLATION (84%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); TRAINS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); COMMUNITY SERVICE SENTENCING (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (72%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (67%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (67%); GOVERNORS (67%); PROPERTY TAX (64%); COUNTIES (60%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1993



723 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: ABOUT NEW YORK;
Four Weeks, 7,000 Trees And Three Guys' Future

BYLINE: By Michael T. Kaufman

 BODY:
"I GUESS I am about as petit bourgeois as you can get," said Scott Lechner as he sat in the Pizza Club and explained his entrepreneurial adventures in the Christmas tree business.
Mr. Lechner, who is 36 years old, is one of three partners in the Pizza Club, a happy-looking, sit-down and not-so-very-fast food establishment on Avenue U in the Marine Park section of Brooklyn that was built with Christmas tree profits. 
 "I've sold things all my life -- food, clothing, jewelry, toys, and once I drove around the country selling chemical Mace," said Mr. Lechner, who looks and talks like the Leo Gorcey character in the Bowery Boys films.
Twelve years ago when he was selling fruit from a box on Broadway and 72d Street he was approached by Greg Walsh, a college student on holiday in search of a summer job. Mr. Lechner took Mr. Walsh, three years his junior, under his wing.
One thing led to another and the two became friends and partners in a number of petit bourgeois operations. "I've always been curious to see how far a peddler could go," said Mr. Lechner as he, Mr. Walsh, and Billy Calvoni, a third partner, stood poised to expand their Christmas tree operation to seven different locations in three boroughs. "I mean, is it possible today to start out with nothing and build something like Macy's?"
On such questions Mr. Lechner tends to be upbeat. He has great confidence and ample nerve. On a good day he can sell you your shoes. He keeps accentuating the positive and sees great possibilities looming out there on the entrepreneurial frontier. It was he who first saw the market for hand-painted pumpkins that the partners sold on the street at Halloween. It is he who talks up the chances of someday franchising the Pizza Club on a citywide and maybe even nationwide basis. And it is Mr. Lechner who boldly envisions selling every last one of the 7,000 trees he and his partners have ordered from as far away as the Pacific northwest.
"The economy is improving," he said. "We've got a terrific new location on First Avenue and 68th street in Manhattan. We have a great, ecologically aware and highly trained sales force. We've ordered the best trees. What could be bad?"
Mr. Walsh countered with another view. "The weather could stay warm," he said. "We could get stuck with a lot of trees. We could lose our shirts." Mr. Calvoni, the remaining partner, kept working the oven and the counter and held his views and hopes to himself.
"The first time we got into Christmas trees was 12 years ago," said Mr. Lechner. "We each put up $500. We went upstate and cut down trees. We did everything wrong, even renting a lot in a Jewish neighborhood. We lost everything. But we learned and the next year we did better."
He said in that next year the trio met and were befriended by Charlie Whitey Sr., a man Mr. Lechner described as a "great old tree man." Out of pity or kindness, he said, Mr. Whitey taught them how to trim trees and how to order the Douglas firs from Oregon, the Scotch pines from Michigan, the balsams from Nova Scotia. From him they also learned to weave wreaths and make the blankets of pine boughs that some customers place on graves in the Christmas season.
From year to year they expanded, setting up lots in supermarket parking lots in Brooklyn and Queens. "We hired college kids and moonlighting cops and firemen to work at our stands," said Mr. Lechner. "Some years we made out all right."
"And some years we did lousy," said Mr. Walsh.
Mr. Lechner brushed aside such commentary. "Two years ago we were able to open the Pizza Club. It's built on the site of one of our first Christmas tree stands. Then last year, we sold most of our trees even though we had that freak northeaster. This year is going to be even better."
This it the year that People's Produce, the Christmas-tree, painted-pumpkin and seasonal-merchandising subsidiary of the Pizza Club of Avenue U, is moving beyond Brooklyn and Queens. Their offer of $2,500 having prevailed in Park Department bidding, the partners are about to begin setting up their trees at a vest pocket park on First Avenue. With characteristic enthusiasm Mr. Lechner cited many reasons why these trees will do well in the relatively high rent and discerning neighborhood.
"First of all, there's our guarantee," he said. "If for any reason customers find they do not like how a particular tree looks, they can bring it back and we'll replace it. Then there's our ecological policy. We only buy from tree farms that replace all trees they cut. We also promise that if we have trees at the end of the season we will transport them to Robert Moses state park where they can be used to anchor new dunes on the beach. We deliver. We trim. Our staff is trained to answer all questions."
How far can a peddler go? How does pizza magnate and head of a Christmas tree conglomerate sound?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS TREES CHRISTMAS (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); FAST FOOD (78%); FRANCHISING (78%); SEASONAL WORKERS (77%); SALES & SELLING (75%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); HALLOWEEN (73%); SALES FORCE (70%); SALES TRAINING (69%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (65%); 

PERSON: KAUFMAN, MICHAEL T; LECHNER, SCOTT

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1993



724 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 46; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Makes Slight Gains; Gold Prices Ease Overseas

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar posted modest gains yesterday in quiet trading after Thanksgiving.
"There really is not enough to sink your teeth into today,"' said Bob Ortiz, vice president for corporate foreign exchange at Continental Bank in Chicago. 
 Gold prices were mostly lower in overseas markets. Precious metals markets in the United States were closed for the holiday weekend.
Currency trading was slow, with many participants off for a long holiday weekend. Futures trading closed at 1 P.M., Eastern standard time, and some large banks began to close their trading operations for the day about 2 P.M., two hours ahead of the usual close of the market.
The dollar slipped but then recovered after the president of Germany's Bundesbank, Hans Tietmeyer, signaled that the central bank was not immediately prepared to make steep cuts in German interest rates.
Mr. Tietmeyer said interest rates were not a "miracle cure" for Germany's economy, which has deep-seated economic and political problems. "A policy of cheap money can't do anything against this; indeed, it would increase the intensity of the problems," he said in Frankfurt.
Germany's reluctance to cut interest rates from their high levels has hurt the value of dollar-denominated investments with lower returns.
 
A Rise Against the Mark
 In European trading, the dollar closed at 1.7115 German marks, up from 1.7080 on Thursday. In New York, the dollar closed at 1.7130 German marks, up from 1.7035 German marks on Wednesday. The American currency markets were closed on Thursday for the Thanksgiving holiday.
Oil prices tumbled in overseas trading, a sign of low inflation, but the trend did not help the dollar, traders said. "I really believe the market isn't reacting to much due to the holiday," Mr. Ortiz said.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 108.52 yen, up slightly from Thursday's close. In late New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 108.90 yen, up from 108.17 yen on Wednesday.
In London, the British pound fell to $1.4782, from $1.4885 late Thursday. At the closing in New York, the pound was quoted at $1.4775, down from $1.4880 late Wednesday.
Gold fell in London to a late bid of $377 an ounce, down from $377.45 on Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (65%); TOKYO, JAPAN (51%); 

COMPANY: CONTINENTAL BANK-BENIN (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (51%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (65%); TOKYO, JAPAN (51%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (92%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); THANKSGIVING (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); FUTURES (78%); BRITISH POUND (77%); INTEREST RATES (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1993



725 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 420 words

HEADLINE: Falling Oil Prices Give Bonds a Lift

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Buoyed by falling oil prices, Treasury bond prices rose sharply yesterday in light trading.
The price of the Treasury's 30-year bond rose 25/32 point while its yield fell to 6.24 percent. The market closed at 2 P.M., Eastern standard time, after being closed on Thursday for Thanksgiving. On Wednesday, the bond's yield closed at 6.30 percent. Prices and yields move in opposite directions. 
 The bond market opened higher on a drop in crude oil prices in European trading. Oil prices sank after the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries decided on Wednesday not to lower its production ceiling to bolster falling prices.
 
 
Gains Began in Europe
 The lower prices are good for the bond market because they lessen the prospect of inflation, which erodes the value of fixed-income securities like bonds.
Much of the gain for the 30-year bond occurred in European trading and continued into dealings in the United States, said John Canavan, a market analyst with Stone & McCarthy Research Associates in Princeton, N.J.
Trading was light, and appeared to follow the changes in oil futures prices on the International Petroleum Exchange in London, where the January delivery contract for North Sea Brent Blend lost 8 cents to settle at $14.48 a barrel. The price had dropped 58 cents on Thursday.
"It was such a big drop," Mr. Canavan said. "Traders do watch oil and gold."
The New York Mercantile Exchange, where American crude oil futures are traded, was closed Thursday and yesterday. On Wednesday, the price of light sweet crude oil for January delivery closed at $16.38 a barrel, down 25 cents.
In the Treasury market, prices of short-term issues rose 3/32 point to 5/32 point, while intermediate-term issues posted bigger gains. The price of the 10-year Treasury note was up half a point while its yield fell to 5.74 percent, from 5.80 percent on Wednesday.
The Lehman Brothers Daily Treasury Bond Index, reflecting price movements on bonds with maturities of a year or longer, rose 3.78, to 1,307.77.
The discount rate on three-month Treasury bills fell 1 basis point, or a hundredth of a percentage point, to 3.09 percent. The discount rate on six-month bills fell 2 basis points, to 3.23 percent. And the discount rate on the one-year bill fell 3 basis points, to 3.41 percent.
In the tax-exempt market, the Bond Buyer index of 40 actively traded municipal bonds closed at 101 5/8, up 3/32 from Wednesday. The average yield to maturity was 5.65 percent, down from 5.66 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE BONDS (95%); BOND MARKETS (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); FUTURES (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1993



726 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1722 words

HEADLINE: Taking Steps to Revive Region's Rail Freight

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
The train clanked forward at a top speed of 10 miles an hour, but even so it rocked on the antique, uneven tracks like a ship at sea. The grass and weeds sprouting between the ties might captivate a botanist, but John Cossman, the engineer, complained that when they get high enough, they make the wheels on his twin 130-ton engines spin as if they were rolling "through soup."
This 10-mile section of the Long Island Rail Road's freight line, from Fresh Pond, Queens, to Bushwick, Brooklyn, is a piece of the aging freight tracks that still thread through large sections of New York City and Long Island, mostly forgotten but hardly unimportant. 
 Many policy planners say the area's highways have become so congested with trucks that the revival of these freight tracks may well be vital to further economic growth.
The first halting steps in that direction are already under way.
Despite the appearance of the Long Island Rail Road tracks, the agency expects to move 17 percent more freight this year than in 1991. Another company that hopes to profit through the increase in rail freight is the New York Cross Harbor Terminal Corporation, a 10-year-old business that operates barges that carry freight trains from Jersey City to Brooklyn.
The obstacles to improving the region's freight systems are numerous, from a lack of money for overhauling old tracks to a tunnel that is too small to handle the latest in freight travel, the double-stacked container.
"What we have now isn't going to let us compete with a modern L.A.," said Richard T. Roberts, chief of transportation planning and policy at the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
About 20 tons of freight move each year for each person in the region, according to the Regional Plan Association. More than 90 percent moves by truck and 2.8 percent moves by rail. The rest comes by air and water. On average in the rest of America, 26 percent of freight moves on the rails, and less than half moves in trucks.
This disparity, combined with highway congestion, has an impact on shippers.
William H. Van Tuyl 3d, executive vice president for Nassau Suffolk Lumber and Supply Corporation, which uses trucks and, increasingly, rail, said: "All I hear about is that truckers just don't want to come to Long Island. They do it because there's a big market, but they are absolutely furious every time they have to come."
 
Taking Freight More Seriously
 Improving the movement of freight, he and other experts say, is crucial if the regional economy is to grow.
"A good transportation system has to move freight as well as people," said Jeffrey M. Zupan, a senior fellow at the Regional Plan Association, a nonprofit research organization. Freight does not have such an obvious constituency, he said, because "a box of cargo doesn't complain that it's late," the way a rail passenger or a driver does. But policy makers are looking at freight more seriously, he said.
In fact, the capital improvement program for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority is stalled in Albany by a dispute over freight. Norman Levy, Republican of Merrick, L.I., and chairman of the State Senate Transportation Committee, has held up the authority's capital program for five months, and is asking for up to $25 million a year from that program for freight improvements on Long Island.
 
Falling Behind
 The region's dependence on highways to move its goods stems from a variety of factors, including a failure to keep up with rail technology and shifting economic patterns in the region.
The Long Island Rail Road, for example, used to haul 100-car trains of potatoes out of the farm country of Suffolk County, but cargoes like that are no longer around to help sustain the system. Warehouses used to be abundant east of the Hudson, but many have moved where land and energy are cheaper, to northern and central New Jersey.
The region's intricate highway system used to mean that a truck could carry a load from northern New Jersey to Nassau County twice a day. Now, said Gerhardt Muller, a goods movement expert at the Port Authority, if a truck is loaded in New Jersey with cargo for Long Island and sets out in the morning, "you lose your driver for the whole day" because of congestion.
Cargo coming from the west to New York City cannot cross the Hudson by rail because the tunnel under the river was built for boxcars, not the trailers or double-stacked containers of modern trains. Not only that, it is too crowded with passenger trains.
 
A 185-Mile Detour
 The nearest rail bridge over the Hudson, a 1.5-mile span between Highland and Poughkeepsie built in 1888, has been unusable since a fire in 1974, requiring trains from the south to detour through Selkirk, N.Y., near Albany, a 185-mile round trip.
The alternative is New York Cross Harbor, the remnant of about a dozen different car-float operations that once ferried rail cars across the Hudson.
The city and state, seeking to improve car-float service, spent $25 million to rebuild a rail yard on the Brooklyn waterfront at 65th Street, intending to lease it to New York Cross Harbor. The yard was completed two years ago, but negotiations have dragged on. Participants differ on the details, but New York Cross Harbor has extensive tax and lease disputes with the city and others.
"It's not the model of good planning," said Christopher O. Ward of the city's Economic Development Corporation, which owns the yard. The Long Island Rail Road would also like to run the rail yard, and others have come forward with what Mr. Ward described as "fanciful ideas," delaying a resolution.
 
A Downward Spiral
 Because the Long Island Rail Road has recently cut costs in its freight division, it expects to make a small profit in that area this year, reversing a loss of $1.3 million in 1990, even though it expects to carry roughly the same amount of freight this year as in 1990. In the last 20 years the Long Island Rail Road and others have kept trimming service in their freight operations to cut losses, but that does not work forever.
"It's a vicious cycle, because your traffic declines, so you cut services and traffic declines more; it spirals down," said Parvesh Swani, whom the railroad named vice president for freight in July 1992, trying to turn operations around.
Another problem around the region is the competition for space with passenger trains. In the days when the Pennsylvania, the New York Central and the New York, New Haven and Hartford railroads ran the show, that problem required close coordination between a railroad's freight department and its passenger department, but both had a strong incentive to work things out: a need to make a profit. Today it is often Conrail versus Metro-North or Amtrak, which do not have shared interests.
But scheduling can be crucial for freight. Mr. Muller of the Port Authority said that if a company like United Parcel Service could be induced to try the rails, "They're going to want that train at a particular time. They're not going to want to hear that it was delayed by a passenger train for 20 minutes."
 
Food Trains
 The most difficult freight to schedule is food. Sometime early next year, regional officials hope to move the first shipment of fruits and vegetables from the West Coast or Florida by train to the Hunts Point market in the South Bronx. Nearly everything sold there now arrives by truck, much of it from rail yards in New Jersey. According to the Regional Plan Association, Hunts Point requires nearly 80 truck trips per day, and each rail car could replace about three of them.
The food trains are to float across the harbor on the New York Cross Harbor and be picked up by the Long Island Rail Road in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, and handed over to Conrail at Fresh Pond in Queens. They are then to be hauled over the Hell Gate Bridge to the Bronx. Considering that trains often wait hours or even days at each handoff, coordinating the transfers is a major challenge.
"You can literally lose value if things are delayed," said Peter D. Cohen, Conrail's manager for economic development in New York.
Local officials see the food shipments as a major step forward. But Wayne A. Michel, director of commercial development at Conrail's headquarters in Philadelphia, called them experimental.
"All the carriers are participating on extremely low margins to see if there is a market," he said.
 
Transporting Trash
 Railways are also hoping to benefit from new developments in garbage disposal. Garbage used to be buried or incinerated locally, but now several companies in Bushwick and elsewhere package recyclable materials for shipment, and commercial garbage is trucked to distant landfills.
The New York City Department of Sanitation would like to export some household garbage. Some city and state officials have talked about the possibility of a new rail tunnel, perhaps from Brooklyn to Staten Island, with garbage exports a guaranteed cargo to help pay for it. The Port Authority would like to study the feasibility of a tunnel running from New Jersey into Manhattan and then to the Sunnyside yard in Queens, to be used for double-stacked freight trains and passenger trains.
More changes are coming. By 1995, New York State hopes to finish a 1.8-mile, $160 million line along the Harlem River to the Oak Point yard in the Bronx that will allow trains to carry truck trailers, although not double-stacked cars. These could then be unloaded and hooked to tractors to be trucked short distances to their destinations. With additional improvements, the trains could continue to Long Island. New York is also trying to revitalize the Harlem River Rail Yard, in the Port Morris section of the Bronx, which has been abandoned for decades.
Mr. Swani of the Long Island Rail Road said that if freight ever became significantly profitable, it would not only relieve congestion, but also might reduce the state's need to subsidize the passenger line, which is the railroad's main business.
Meanwhile, the railroad's trains clank along. The four-wheel-drive Broncos that patrol the tracks carry chains to tow abandoned cars, but there is no push to clean up.
"We've cleaned it up, but in a few weeks it looks the same again," said John F. Keegan, superintendent of freight operations.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers repairing tracks on the Long Island Rail Road's freight line from Queens to Brooklyn (Monica Almeida/The New York Times) (pg. 1); Congested highways throughout the New York area are placing more importance on the Long Island Rail Road's aging freight lines. In Bushwick, Brooklyn, tracks pass New York Harbor, left, (Keith Meyers for The New York Times) and Woodward Avenue. (Steve Berman for The New York Times) (pg. 25)
 
Graph: "Commerce: Rail Freight in the New York area" shows freight carloads carried by the Long Island Railroad, 1986-1993. (Source: Long Island Rail Road; Conrail) (pg. 25)
 
Map of New York area shows tracks that are capable of carrying freight. (Pg. 25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (65%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (65%); SIC5211 LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS (63%); NAICS493110 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (55%); SIC4214 LOCAL TRUCKING WITH STORAGE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (LIRR); LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (LIRR) PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (65%); NASSAU SUFFOLK LUMBER & SUPPLY CORP (63%); TERMINAL CORP (55%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (94%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (LIRR); LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (LIRR) LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (94%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; NEW YORK CITY; LONG ISLAND (NY) UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; FREIGHT; REPAIR SERVICES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION RAIL FREIGHT (91%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (91%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); TRAINS (90%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (89%); TRUCK DRIVERS (78%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (77%); BOTANY (77%); HARBORS & PORTS (75%); CITY LIFE (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); PORT AUTHORITIES (72%); CITIES (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); EXECUTIVES (63%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (59%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1993



727 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2212 words

HEADLINE: Cities and Suburbs Battle Over Distribution of Aid

SERIES: Remaking Schools: New Jersey's Challenge -- Second of two articles

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD

 BODY:
When Christine Todd Whitman takes office next January, she will face an issue that has plagued New Jersey governors for a quarter century and that helped bring down Jim Florio, her predecessor.
The issue is equality of education in the public schools: how the schools can serve the poor children of the cities as well as they serve the more affluent children of the suburbs. Typically, the dispute is couched in money: how much school districts spend per pupil and how much they can collect in property taxes. 
 As an issue, inequality -- between worse off and well off, cities and suburbs -- arrived at the governor's door in 1970, during William Cahill's administration, and it has persisted. When Mr. Florio became Governor, it was the engine that drove his big tax increase, which so soured voters that he became the first incumbent to lose a gubernatorial election.
During her campaign, Mrs. Whitman reiterated a frequent political view: "A lack of money isn't the cause of our education problem. A lack of leadership is." She pledged to squeeze out more for needy districts from the existing budget. She advocated trying a voucher system in troubled Jersey City, using public money to pay for a private education.
But many experts on education fear that by forcing the public schools to compete for pupils, a voucher system would undercut the public schools, not inspire them. They also fear that Mrs. Whitman's pledge to cut state taxes by 30 percent can only come at the expense of state support for local schools, though she has promised it will not. Not only does she inherit a daunting budget gap, but a state court has also ruled that New Jersey now undersupports its schools by $450 million.
 
The Crux: 'Special Needs'
 The core of the issue is 30 poor urban districts like Jersey City and Newark deemed "special needs districts." Test scores lag pathetically, dropout rates are alarming and some students go to class in furnace rooms. More than a quarter of the state's children are enrolled in these 30 districts, yet they spend on average of $1,680 per pupil less than the wealthiest systems.
Hundreds of millions of new dollars have flowed to the state's schools to solve the problem. Without that money, they would be much worse off. Nevertheless, the inner-city districts make do with far less than their wealthier counterparts, while their students face other students with guns in their knapsacks and often live in one-parent homes.
Across the country, states are seeking ways to equalize education for all students, but New Jersey was among the first. It is the most densely populated and most urbanized state, and, more than almost any other, it has tolerated dire inequities in its schools.
In some cases, the disparities were so great and the performance of urban schools so poor that the state stepped in to take over the schools. That happened, with limited success, in Jersey City and Paterson.
The reform movement in New Jersey was spawned in 1970, with the glittering hope of sound public schooling for students in every stratum. Echoes of the past pervade the debate. Yet another court ruling in August found the state's efforts wanting. Yet another State Supreme Court ruling looms. Yet another blue-ribbon commission is laboring to offer its recommendations by year end.
"We are moving in baby steps," said Margaret Goertz, a school finance expert at the Consortium for Policy Research in Education at Rutgers University. "We've put a lot of new dollars into schools, but they haven't gone very far in closing the disparity of rich and poor."
 
Promising Statistics
 Certain facts about New Jersey's schools seem beacons of promise. New Jersey spends more per pupil than any other state, $9,192 for each of 1.13 million students. Its 83,058 full-time teachers receive the fourth-highest salaries in the country. The schooling in most districts has long been saluted by educators as equal to any in the country.
Yet the public schools are the fourth most segregated in the nation, and while almost every other state has been consolidating districts to reap efficiencies and diversify their school-age population, New Jersey continues to add districts, making integration even harder. Some districts are only a mile square, and 22 have fewer than 100 students. Twenty-five have no schools at all; they send their children to neighboring districts.
The state pays less than 40 percent of the cost of public education; the national average is 50 percent. Districts depend largely on property taxes to satisfy the rest. That has proven too shallow a well for urban centers, which tend to have many children who need additional help.
"There are still elementary schools in the state without a library," Mary Lee Fitzgerald, the state education commissioner, said recently. "There are schools in Newark that don't have scissors to cut with."
Taxpayers already feel overburdened, and yet urban schools say they can't succeed without more state money. Wherever one lives, education comes down to politics, class and race and, of course, putting one's own children first. That has been so ever since the genesis of New Jersey's reform movement a quarter of a century ago.
 
Beginnings of Reform
A Lawsuit Results In an Income Tax
 Harold Ruvoldt Jr. needed something to write about. This was 1966, when he was a Jersey City law clerk a year out of law school. Rummaging through the state constitution, he noticed an 1875 amendment that the state guarantee a "thorough and efficient" public education. His familiarity with Jersey City told him that the state was hardly fulfilling that obligation. He fastened on the issue. "I just wanted to write an article," he said.
When he circulated his paper for review, one recipient was keenly interested: the corporation counsel of Jersey City. The city's Mayor, Thomas J. Whelan, was in political trouble over soaring property taxes. He and the counsel saw the constitutional issue as a way to stop financing the schools from property taxes and get the state to pay.
Mr. Ruvoldt was hired to file suit, which he did in 1970, in a case called Robinson v. Cahill. William T. Cahill was Governor. Mayor Whelan's staff supplied Kenneth Robinson, a spindly 7-year-old, as the plaintiff.
Eventually, a landmark decision by the State Supreme Court in April 1973 declared New Jersey's method of paying for education unconstitutional. The Public Education Act of 1975, commonly known as Chapter 212, was passed as a solution. To pay for it, the Legislature enacted New Jersey's first income tax in 1976.
 
Gap Narrowed, Then Widened
 Many education experts doubted that Chapter 212 allowed enough money to equalize districts. For a few years the spending gap between districts narrowed. Then it widened again, prompting a second suit, Abbott v. Burke, filed by the Education Law Center, a public interest law firm, on behalf of children in four urban districts.
With each passing year, economic vicissitudes and social woes made life bleaker for urban children. It used to be tolerable to drop out of high school or forgo college. The cities were flush with factory jobs and other prospects. Now skimpy education means a life on the streets.
In the new case, the State Supreme Court declared Chapter 212 unconstitutional in June 1990. Governor Florio and the Democratic-controlled Legislature produced the Quality Education Act, known as the Q.E.A. It increased state aid by $1.15 billion, but was stymied by opposition from taxpayers and education groups over higher taxes and spending limits.
Along came Q.E.A. II. It removed $350 million from school money and instead applied the money to lowering property taxes, leaving just $800 million for education. To the dismay of many districts, it imposed spending caps on them. What is more, the wealthier districts would lose state support for routine education programs over four years.
Like most sequels, Q.E.A. II was a disappointment. Poor districts complained that the money was still meager, wealthier districts that their pockets were being picked.
In June 1991, Marilyn Morheuser of the Education Law Center returned to court, charging that Q.E.A. II failed to satisfy the previous decision. In a ruling last August, the Superior Court agreed. It found that an additional $450 million was needed by 1995-96, but left the final say to the State Supreme Court.
Ms. Morheuser said that enough of a coalition for more state aid now exists that a solution is at hand. Others feel she is too optimistic.
 
The 'Robin Hood' Act
A Study Finds Little Change
 Q.E.A. II is described (and derided) as a "Robin Hood" measure, taking from the rich to give to the poor. Yet a recent study concludes that it has been a poor impersonation of Robin Hood.
The analysis of the first year of the act by the Center for Educational Policy Analysis at Rutgers found that only $287 million of the $800 million of new state aid went to poor urban districts, while 60 percent went elsewhere, including to wealthy enclaves.
The study examined the impact of Q.E.A. II on 11 unidentified districts, from low to high wealth. While the gap between the districts had closed somewhat, sizable disparities persisted. In fact, the two moderate-wealth districts realized higher percentage increases in state aid than did the five poor urban districts.
"The better-off districts are not suffering at the hands of the poor," said William Firestone, the director of the Center for Educational Policy Analysis. "To the extent that the better-off districts were constrained, it was more a case of the local taxpayers not wanting to contribute more."
The money helped the urban areas, but little was actually spent on instruction. The urban districts, the study found, were able to make only modest changes in school programs, generally using the money for salaries and existing programs.
 
Unhappiness in Ridgewood
 Ridgewood, in northern New Jersey, is known as a town that draws families because the schools are good. But talk to people about the education debate and you hear the patter of unhappiness.
Fred Stokley, school superintendent for Ridgewood, complained that since Q.E.A. II his district has had to make many reductions -- 15 fewer teachers, 8 fewer coaches, fewer field trips -- yet he acknowledged that Ridgewood has not spent up to its limit. It could restore those things if its taxpayers agreed. Mr. Stokley is convinced that Ridgewood people would resist paying more taxes to educate urban children. "They don't want to even pay more money for their own kids," he said.
Matawan-Aberdeen, a middle-class district in south central New Jersey, has lost state aid, made cutbacks and raised taxes, though it, too, has not spent up to its limit. "We're reaching a point where we're going to have a taxpayer revolt," said Ken Hall, the superintendent. "People are saying, 'How much money can you spend in a school district?' " He contends that the money going into urban districts is coming entirely from middle-class districts like his own, while wealthy districts are politically untouchable.
In Westfield, Mark Smith, the superintendent of that wealthy district, complains that Westfield has made unwanted reductions because it is spending almost to its limit. "We want to create equality without districts doing well with their students having to level down," he said.
New Jersey has been unable to overcome the belief of many parents that their children's school is all that counts.
"I live in Millburn," said Paul Tractenberg, a professor of law at Rutgers who has long studied education reform, "and I see it close up with my neighbors. They think the property taxes they pay belong to their schools. The attitude is, 'We deserve it, our children deserve it.' "
 
Looking Ahead
Lines Are Drawn, Suspicion Is High
 Times have changed, and many people feel less generous than they did when the American economy was growing apace.
"At the time of Robinson-Cahill, the climate was more accepting of helping the cities," said Kenneth Carlson, associate professor at the Rutgers graduate school of education. "It was the 60's and the time of the war on poverty."
Since then, the economy has faltered, and many antipoverty efforts have failed. "A lot of people say that the cities have been given enough of a chance," Mr. Carlson said.
The problem keeps burying itself deeper into the fabric of the state. Earlier this year, a new commission was established by the State Legislature to devise a fresh financing formula. Its deadline was Nov. 15, but it is behind schedule and now trying for the end of December.
Albert Burstein, a lawyer, heads the commission. He was a member of the last commission, of which little came. He made his opinion clear in an interview that the taxpayers must come up with a lot more money. In theory, equality could be achieved without higher taxes, by siphoning money from suburban districts. But that, he fears, would result in a dilution of all the public schools similar to what happened in California. "We surely want to avoid that," he said.
Does that mean higher taxes?
"I think that's the bullet we are going to have to bite," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Concern over the quality of education in New Jersey has been closely tied to the state's financial aid, and the issue of money will loom even larger as the financial gap between suburban and city schools widens. At Ridgewood High School, top, students play paddleball in the spacious gym. In the Miller Street School in Newark, pupils exercise over a repaired floor. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); FINANCES; SURVEYS AND SERIES; SUBURBS; ELECTION ISSUES GOVERNORS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (77%); PARENTS (77%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); POPULATION DENSITY (76%); SUBURBS (76%); TAX LAW (75%); TAX INCREASES (75%); URBANIZATION (71%); 

PERSON: KLEINFIELD, N R; FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV); WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (93%); WILLIAM THOMAS CAHILL (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1993



728 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 183 words

HEADLINE: Taiwan Asked To Cut Tariffs

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 26

 BODY:
The United States is seeking cuts in tariffs levied by Taiwan on 2,800 products as part of that country's petition to join a world trade agreement, United States trade officials said today.
Mickey Kantor, the United States trade representative, said the request covered American products that were most competitive in Taiwan's market. If accepted, he said, it would help to improve American exports to Taiwan. 
 Through the first eight months of this year, the United States was running a $5.86 billion trade deficit with Taiwan.
Taiwan has petitioned to join the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the Geneva-based organization that governs world trade.
Because it is seeking to join the world trade body as a developed economy, it will be required to lower its tariffs, or border taxes, to the levels that generally prevail in other industrial countries.
As part of that process, countries already in GATT are allowed to make requests, such as that filed by the United States, about particular tariffs they would like to see lowered before approving the country's entry into GATT.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); TAIWAN (99%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (58%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT) GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (92%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT) GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (92%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TAIWAN; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (99%); TAIWAN (99%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); PETITIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); APPROVALS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1993



729 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 3; Financial Desk; Your Money Page

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Q and A

BYLINE: By Leonard Sloane

 BODY:

Using Wills as Safeguards
 
Q. Is it necessary for a widow or widower with two grown children, equally loved, to make out a will, thus avoiding probate? Won't the state just divide all proceeds between the two?
HELEN STENBERG, Merrick, L.I. 

A. Although your assets will pass to your children on your death under the laws of almost all states, there are still many reasons to write a will. For example, one child might die before you do, and with a will, you can specify what you want to happen in that situation.
You can also use a will to safeguard property for the benefit of your children by creating a trust or taking other steps. Without a will, this possibility is eliminated.
"In addition, if you do not have a will, your sons will be required to post a bond for the protection of any potential creditors you may have at your death," said Jonathan G. Blattmachr, a partner in the law firm of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy. "Your estate will have to pay for that bond, which probably will exceed the cost of paying a lawyer to draft a will for you."
 
Getting Payments Overseas
 
Q. It is my plan to move to Denmark when I retire. Will I be able to receive my Social Security check and I.R.A. distributions if I move?
SCHICKI HANSEN, Manhattan
 
A. Yes. Americans living in a foreign country are entitled to the same Social Security payments that they would get if living in the United States. Distributions from individual retirement accounts can also be sent to your new address abroad.
It is important to note that retirees who live in foreign countries are generally subject to the same tax obligations as other United States citizens. These foreign residents must also pay income taxes levied by the country where they live on money received there.
"However, many countries have treaties with the U.S. which exempt nongovernmental pension payments from being subject to income tax in that country," said Lewis J. Altfest, a New York financial planner. "Some treaty countries exempt Social Security payments as well."
In your case, Denmark's treaty with the United States exempts both Social Security and private pension payments from local taxes.
 
Money Market Risks
 
Are there any risks in investing in a money market fund?
PATRICIA HAGOOD, Manhattan
 
A. No investment is entirely free of risk. Money market funds, which are designed to maintain a price of $1 a share, carry little default risk, however. They restrict their portfolios to fixed-income investments like certificates of deposit, commercial paper and bankers' acceptances.
John Markese, the president of the American Association of Individual Investors, said they carried another risk: If interest rates climb, prices will decline.
"Longer-maturity investments are more sensitive to interest-rate changes than shorter-term investments," he said. "The lowest-risk money market funds have the shortest average maturity and the highest quality ratings on their investments."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: MILBANK TWEED HADLEY & MCCLOY LLP (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CHILDREN (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); PROBATE (89%); BONDS (88%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (87%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (86%); SOCIAL SECURITY (86%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (84%); ESTATE PLANNING (78%); INTESTACY (78%); LAWYERS (76%); TAX LAW (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (72%); LEGAL SERVICES (72%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (70%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (68%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (67%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (64%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (64%); INCOME TAX (62%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (61%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1993



730 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 1; Financial Desk; Your Money Page

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: CAVEAT EMPTOR;
Exotic Securities Cause Losses at Some Funds

BYLINE: By Carole Gould

 BODY:
AS interest rates have fallen to remarkably low levels in the last few years, bond mutual funds have searched for ways to pump up their yields. Some managers saw a ray of light in derivative securities, though skeptics warned that these complex financial products posed a danger if rates rose.
Those fears were at least partly borne out in September, when three publicly traded bond funds of Hyperion Inc. stumbled. The funds, which had significant amounts of exotic securities derived from mortgages, lost 15 to 20 percent of their value from mid-September through mid-October. 
 Two lawsuits filed by shareholders followed -- the first in October. Then last week, a pension fund that owned shares in the Hyperion fund filed a suit, contending these securities deviated from the conservative strategy described in the prospectus.
"The company believes the claims are without merit and stands behind the disclosure in the prospectus," said Mike Rosella, counsel to Hyperion Capital Management.
 Though Hyperion's funds have taken the spotlight, derivatives are widespread in the fund industry. The value of a derivative is based on another product, like a commodity contract or a pool of mortgages. Most investors do not know their funds own derivatives or what they are.
"Individual investors in mutual funds are probably not fully aware that their mutual fund managers are investing in hybrid securities that bear considerable market risk," Leo C. O'Neill, president of the ratings group at the Standard & Poor's Corporation, wrote in a recent report.
S.& P. puts the size of the derivatives market in the United States at $10 billion to $20 billion. Mutual funds are the most active players.
The Hyperion funds were tripped up by collateralized mortgage obligations, or C.M.O.'s. The securities are created by slicing mortgage-backed securities into many parts. The most common are I.O.'s, which represent the interest on the home loans, and P.O.'s, which represent the principal.
The primary risk in these securities, whose underlying home loans are backed by Government mortgage agencies, is that homeowners will refinance when rates fall. If homeowners prepay their mortgages, anyone holding the securities must reinvest the proceeds at prevailing rates, which will be lower than when the securities were purchased.
This prepayment risk is magnified in an interest-only security. When the income stream disappears, the value of the security disappears.
Along with the Hyperion funds, the interest-only derivatives have pulled down the returns this year of adjustable-rate mortgage funds at Franklin, Putnam and T. Rowe Price, among others.
The unpredictable nature of the securities is only part of the problem. Shareholders are often left to guess what their funds hold. Many reports use the phrase C.M.O. without disclosing the type of security or its use.
Eileen Sanders, an analyst with Morningstar, suggests investors check the list of holdings in fund annual reports and call the fund company for more information. Also, be suspicious of unusually high yields, a clue that something unusual may be stashed in the portfolio.
To be sure, a few mutual fund managers have used derivatives successfully. Worth Bruntjen mixes principal-only securities and other types of derivatives in his Managers Intermediate Mortgage Fund. Balancing one type of risk against another, he has produced stellar returns -- an average 13.2 percent annually for the five years ended in October -- while keeping interest rate risk low.
Even so, that strategy has not been fully tested, Ms. Sanders cautioned. Rates have risen in relatively small increments in recent weeks; what would happen if rates rose sharply?

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Sold On Derivatives" shows portion of funds invested on interest-only mortgage securities. (Source: Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (72%); SIC3823 INDUSTRIAL INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASUREMENT, DISPLAY & CONTROL OF PROCESS VARIABLES & RELATED PRODUCTS (72%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (66%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (66%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: HYPERION INC (72%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (66%); HYPERION BROOKFIELD CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; CONSUMER PROTECTION; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BOND FUNDS (90%); BONDS (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (86%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (77%); LITIGATION (75%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); COMMODITIES TRADING (71%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1993



731 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11; Column 5; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: Joint Production Takes 'The Joy Luck Club' To China's Stages

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEIJING, Nov. 26

 BODY:
A stage version of "The Joy Luck Club" prepared for audiences in China and Hong Kong has solved a great problem of Amy Tan's best-selling novel of mothers and daughters: how to keep track of all those Chinese names when the author rips through time from one family's set of memories to another's.
In this co-production of the Shanghai People's Art Theater and the Long Wharf Theater of New Haven, adapted by Susan Kim, the costume designer, Susan Tsu, gives the audience an ingenious solution that could have been conceived at Kmart. 
 She has color-coded the families.
Thanks to Ms. Tsu's costuming and the clarity with which Ms. Kim and the director, Arvin Brown, have segmented the march through time, there is no need to remember that Jing-Mei, or June, Woo (color her bright yellow) is the daughter of Suyuan (ditto), who is the one who abandoned the twins as she fled a Japanese invasion. Or that Waverly Jong (candy-apple red) is the chess champion and Rose Tsu Jordan (cobalt blue) is the one who wasn't paying attention when her little brother slipped into the coiled dragon's arms beneath the waves that day at the beach. Or that her mother, An-Mei Tsu, is the one whose own mother overdosed on opium and shame after being trapped in concubinage to the fat merchant from Tianjin.
Ms. Tsu not only used matching colors to keep mothers and daughters joined throughout the play, but also contrasted the costuming to accentuate the generational and cultural dislocations within each pair. So just as Lindo Jong's bright red and very traditional slit-up-the-side dress fixed her in time, so do the bright red mini-skirt, matching lipstick and oversized plastic eyeglass frames on her daughter, Waverly.
With hairstyles and scarves, chewing gum, berets, hosiery and shoes, the costuming of "The Joy Luck Club" wonderfully magnified the contrasts that Ms. Tan had described in her novel as feelings, emotions and attitudes.
The set designer, Ming Cho Lee, used a dozen simple white door frames to set off the memory cells through which the story moves quickly in time and geography, showing the imagination that went into the daunting task of translating Ms. Tan's novel onto the stage. (The film version treats the stories sequentially, making it easier to tell who's who.)
 
Modernizing the Arts
 The stage production, which opened in Shanghai in August and moved to Beijing last Saturday, will also travel to Tianjin before turning southward again to Guangzhou and Shenzhen and finally to Hong Kong, where it will be part of the Hong Kong Arts Festival in February.
This joint venture between the Long Wharf and the Shanghai Theater was fostered by the Yale-China Association and is being underwritten by Northern Telecom, the telecommunications giant, which is competing for the rapidly expanding China market.
It also represents an effort to bring modern stage management and marketing skills to Chinese theater, where the Communist Party and the financially pressed central Government, while trying to maintain control over content, are applying more and more pressure for economic independence in the arts.
In the spring and summer of 1992, Shanghai Theater directors, actors and artists spent three months studying production management and front-office economics in nine American cities, including New Haven.
While reviews of the play in the Chinese press were uniformly positive, some writers seemed rather confused about the nature of the generational disconnections the author explores. Others raised questions about whether the quest of a second-generation American Chinese to understand the culture their mothers involuntarily abandoned registers with a Chinese audience whose members, by choice or restriction, stayed behind.
The Xinmin Daily News in Shanghai said in its Aug. 28 account of the performance there, "Some viewers say the play only reflects a narrow sense of seeking one's roots and lacks a more complete story of the continuing contradictions" in Chinese life, "which makes it hard for some Chinese viewers to appreciate the play as designed."
Ms. Kim's adaptation has been skillfully translated into Mandarin, and this work was undoubtedly made easier by the fact that Ms. Tan's story is full of the instantly recognizable metaphors and images derived from the Chinese language. Indeed, the name Joy Luck Club represents the kind of combination of image words that is common in Chinese. A mundane word in English like train becomes in Chinese the all-purpose character for car jammed together with the character for fire because the first trains in China were steam-driven locomotives.
 
One American Actor
 Although the opening of "The Joy Luck Club" here took place on a night when Beijing's streets were glazed with ice from last week's snow showers, the 800-seat theater was nearly full.
It is difficult to tell how much the ever-polite Chinese enjoyed the staging of this work by Ms. Tan, whose vantage point is distinctly American. They did seem receptive to the performances, however.
The mothers and daughters were played by eight Chinese actresses. The only American onstage, James Andreassi, played all the boyfriends and husbands of the Chinese daughters, from redneck fiance to yuppie whiner to boorish predator. Even when he delivered his bits of English dialogue, the mostly Chinese audience at the Children's Theater in Beijing followed his renditions, and applauded them.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A scene from the stage version of "The Joy Luck Club." The co-production by the Shanghai People's Art Theater and the Long Wharf Theater in New Haven opened in Beijing last week. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: JOY LUCK CLUB, THE (PLAY)

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); HONG KONG (91%); UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); SOUTH CHINA (78%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (88%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: SHANGHAI PEOPLE'S ART THEATER; LONG WHARF THEATER (NEW HAVEN)

ORGANIZATION: SHANGHAI PEOPLE'S ART THEATER; LONG WHARF THEATER (NEW HAVEN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA CHINA (94%); HONG KONG (91%); UNITED STATES (88%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); SOUTH CHINA (78%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (88%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; COSTUMES, THEATRICAL THEATER (90%); VISUAL ARTS (89%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); FESTIVALS (78%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (77%); BESTSELLERS (77%); FAMILY (76%); FASHION DESIGNERS (75%); WRITERS (72%); BOARD GAMES (71%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (71%); JOINT VENTURES (50%); 

PERSON: TAN, AMY; TSU, SUSAN; TYLER, PATRICK E

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1993



732 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: Black Children, White Parents

 BODY:
Is it better for black children to be adopted by families of another race than not to be adopted at all? Debate over this question has raged for two decades, since black social workers took a strong stand against such adoptions.
Clearly, matching adoptive parents with children of the same race is a good idea. And more aggressive recruitment of black families to adopt black children is needed. But in the long run, a permanent home is better than foster care, and even as a last resort it's better to raise a black child with a white family than with no family at all. 
 Nationwide, about 100,000 children are candidates for adoption. An estimated 40 percent are black, and many of the available white children are school age or have special needs.
Many white families seeking to adopt want healthy infants. And since the demand is greater than the supply, many of these families consider adopting an infant of another race.
The most controversial of these trans-racial adoptions involve white families and black children. In 1972 the National Association of Black Social Workers came out against such adoptions, calling them cultural "genocide." The association remains convinced that black children who grow up with white adoptive families are less likely to feel positive about themselves and their cultural origins than those adopted by black families.
But a recently published study by Rita Simon, a professor of law and public affairs at American University, and Howard Altstein, a professor of social work at the University of Maryland, takes the opposite position. Their study followed 204 white families who adopted minority children over a period of 20 years. The researchers concluded that minority children who grow up in white families don't become confused about their racial identities.
It's unclear how many black children are being denied permanent homes because willing white families are having difficulty adopting them. But the debate about trans-racial adoptions is likely to intensify. Beyond those children who are headed for adoption, there were also more than 300,000 children in foster care in 1990. Forty percent of them were black children, exceeding the number of white children for the first time. As long as that trend continues, the need to place black children permanently with families of different racial backgrounds will be an issue.
Texas has already passed a law that prohibits the use of race as a factor in adoptions. And Howard Metzenbaum, the Democratic Senator from Ohio, has introduced a bill that would allow agencies receiving Federal funds to consider race, color or national origin in the placement of a child if it is in the child's best interest. But the agencies would not be allowed to discriminate in any other way against a family solely on the basis of race. The bill is supported by Senator Carol Moseley-Braun, Democrat of Illinois, who is black.
Still, before there's a rush to place black children with white families, a lot more should be done to recruit black adoptive families, particularly for black infants. A 1991 survey by the North American Council on Adoptable Children, which started with a bias toward trans-racial adoptions, identified several institutional barriers that discouraged minorities from adopting. They include economic guidelines that tend to screen out blacks, inflexible standards that favor more affluent two-parent families instead of alternatives like single-parent households, steep adoption fees and lack of minority staff and managers who might be more welcoming to black families.
Every child deserves a loving home. To the extent that black children are not adopted because of a failure to recruit black families or resistance to trans-racial placements, those barriers ought to be eliminated. It makes sense to give preference to adoptive parents of the same race. But parents of other races should not be disqualified.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF BLACK SOCIAL WORKERS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF BLACK SOCIAL WORKERS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ADOPTIONS; BLACKS (IN US); EDITORIALS ADOPTION (94%); PARENTING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); FOSTER CARE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); PARENTS (78%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (73%); TRENDS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1993



733 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Coming: Soccer, The Religion

BYLINE: By ROBERT LIPSYTE

 BODY:
ONE of my jobs around here 30 years ago was taking London bureau chauffeurs to baseball games and recording their inane queries ("Has it begun yet? Why does that chap just stand there?") without making invidious comparisons to cricket. It gave me a pragmatic, philistine world view; if you don't wrinkle your nose at my potatoes, I won't spit in your rice. But it didn't fully prepare me for the coming Big Soccer incursion.
Will I be a terrible person if I don't get swept away by the World Cup? 
 It will not be enough to regard the World Cup as an interesting cultural diversion visiting the United States, like an exhibition of modern French painting or a Balinese dance troupe. No, you may not hafta understand Nafta, but the World Cup is supposedly one of those defining events. Be there or be square. Are you on the bus?
Here we go again. The sporting equivalents of uppity vegetarians, wine-tasters, cineastes, dog snobs, will be telling us that soccer is a world language we simply must learn, as concerned citizens of the planet, as cognoscenti, as decent blokes and as international business dealers -- what if a colleague from another country asks us what "nutmeg" means and we don't know it is a neat kick between an opponent's legs? Deal breaker!
Let's reflect on this before the T-shirts and the Cup cups arrive. Do we have to care because most of the rest of the world cares? Is there space in our crowded spectator-sports schedule for more games? Is there room in our hearts for more heroes?
What's in this World Cup for us?
For starters, let's separate the grass roots from the licensed spectacle. Soccer is a wonderful game, in many social, medical, economic and environmental ways superior to the games that now grip our lives. Youngsters have found in soccer an accessible, joyous, inexpensive team sport safer than football, more forgiving than baseball, less dependent on size than basketball. For girls, particularly, soccer has been an athletic liberation. More and more adult men and women are playing at ages when only softball had been available.
What does this have to do with the World Cup? One of the mandates of World Cup '94, one of the reasons it was awarded to this undeveloped soccer country, was to leave a legacy for the sport's next generation, to build a foundation of youth programs. There is no sense yet that substantial money and energy have been spent on this mandate by the licensed promoters.
There is time yet. The teams have not yet taken up their American posts. One expects they will become inspirations in their communities, offering clinics, school visits and inexpensive exhibition games.
First, however, we need to get past the opening extravaganza, and hope it is not the handle on this cup. On Dec. 19, Caesars Palace of Las Vegas, the sports gambling capital of the United States, will present the drawing for team pairings. A 90-minute television show, to be hosted by Dick Clark (could I make this up?) will be broadcast worldwide.
With Global Bandstand behind us, it will be six months to the first-round games at nine American locations. The championship will be held a month after that, on July 17, in Pasadena.
That should give us time to learn to love or hate Diego Maradona, World Cup '94's designated testosteroney. By June, L. T. will be long gone to his new video game business, Dennis Rodman's season will be over and Wild Thing will still be regional, so there should be plenty of ink and air to promote another cartoon adolescent. Maradona is a kicker of fortune, now playing for Argentina. He is called "glamorous" because he has good hair and is fun to watch. Now, if Maradona dates Madonna. . . .?
Another mandate of World Cup '94 is the formation of an American-based professional soccer league. It's considered critical to high school and college programs to have a pro outlet. Again, there has been little publicized progress; it seems unlikely that a pro league will be functioning in the near future.
Meanwhile, basketball, which is mini-soccer for the vertically gifted, is becoming the global game, one of America's most successful exports. Just when we're being told to get in step with the rest of the world, the rest of the world is responding to the N.B.A.'s marketing genius of brand names, cultural imperialism and touring pros. Maybe if the N.B.A. took over the selling of soccer to America. . . .?
World Cup '94 is a circus that could be fun but is not yet proven a worthy enterprise. The hungry will not be drinking from the cup. Don't listen to the nutmeg terrorists. Unless you're the type who eats Ben & Jerry's Rainforest Crunch to save the world.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Diego Maradona (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); 

SUBJECT: SOCCER; WORLD CUP (SOCCER) SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (91%); SPORTS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SOCCER (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); EXHIBITIONS (88%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); BASKETBALL (73%); BASEBALL (73%); PAINTING (69%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (69%); CHILDREN (66%); MEAT FREE DIETS (56%); DANCE (54%); 

PERSON: LIPSYTE, ROBERT; MARADONA, DIEGO DIEGO MARADONA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1993



734 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: Isn't It Time to Stop The India-Bashing?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
It is irresponsible to give readers the impression that some sort of state-supported ethnic cleansing is going on in India in "After Bombay's Violence, Fear and Finger-Pointing" (news article, Nov. 19). 
 India is the victim of Muslim fundamentalist terrorist groups, who are financed by the Arabs and trained by the Pakistani army. According to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Bombay stock exchange was blown up, killing some 300 people, by these terrorists, who used identical explosives to the ones used in the World Trade Center.
Your correspondent seems to find this almost justifiable because it is widely believed (by whom?) to be a retaliatory act caused by violence against the Muslims.
As an American of Indian origin, having spent half my life in each country, I can say in good conscience that India possibly treats its minority population no worse than this country does. A case in point: Israel has officially declared India as the only country where Jews were not persecuted during their very long sojourn. India carefully preserves many ancient synagogues, and many Jews choose to continue living there.
India is as much a "Hindu" country as the United States is a "Christian" country. Indians have twice elected a Muslim president. Many powerful and sensitive positions at the top are held by Muslims, Sikhs, Christians and other non-Hindus. Indeed, so many scarce jobs are reserved by the Government under the strict minority quota system, that the majority Hindus feel discriminated against. If you wish to portray religious intolerance, you would do better to pick any Muslim country at random.
Obviously, there are radical Hindu groups, who represent neither the majority Hindus nor official policy. What you never mention is that India is the largest democracy on this planet. Even the extremist groups (Hindu, Muslim or Sikh) enjoy freedom of speech under the law. It is ludicrous to suggest that violence against Muslims is initiated or encouraged by the authorities, despite one of your anonymous sources.
It is in the political and economic interest of the United States to support and cultivate democratic India as an ally, rather than to continue the old India-bashing.
 
AMIT SARKAR
Scarsdale, N.Y., Nov. 20, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); ISRAEL (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: MUMBAI, INDIA (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); ISRAEL (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MUMBAI, INDIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); RELIGION (91%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ETHNIC GROUPS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (89%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); FUNDAMENTALISM (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (62%); ARMIES (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1993



735 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 27, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: Don't Hitch Faster Train Service to Fantasies

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your report of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's call for a high-speed rail link using magnetic levitation between New York City and Albany illustrates the appeal of high-tech, high-budget projects to politicians, particularly if they involve large Federal research grants to local constituents (news article, Nov. 10). 
 But magnetic levitation or maglev has almost no chance of becoming reality. Aside from its enormous initial costs and its equally large operating costs, mostly for energy, it has problems of environmental impact. The proposed route, along the Gov. Thomas E. Dewey Thruway, would take it outside almost all major New York State population centers, including New York City.
On the other hand, more modest proposals for upgrading Amtrak's service are languishing. Increasing the maximum speed of Amtrak's trains from the 79 miles an hour over most of New York State's tracks to 110 miles an hour, which is possible with the equipment we have, would achieve almost all the time savings of the more esoteric proposals at a small fraction of the cost.
It could probably be achieved at a cost of the order of $300 million. That would leave New York State with $6.4 billion to take care of other more pressing needs, like schools, prisons, and other infrastructure projects.
At a top speed of 110 miles an hour, New York City to Albany would be possible in less than two hours and New York City to Buffalo in about six hours. (This still represents average speeds of only 71 miles an hour.) More important, it would allow Amtrak to serve local markets in upstate New York, such as Albany to Syracuse or Syracuse to Buffalo, which are now almost entirely dependent on the private automobile.
Alas, such proposals do not have the allure of big budget projects. More than likely, unglamorous proposals are among the first to be cut in the name of balancing the budget, as was the Amtrak operating subsidy, which forced Amtrak to reduce service on several crucial routes just a week ago.
Improving our national rail passenger system should be a top priority for the United States, just as it has been for Germany, Japan, Switzerland, Britain and almost every other industrialized country. Somehow, we still haven't caught on. Instead, we are being diverted by grandiose visions like maglev, which will never happen and should not happen, given the state of our economy and the need to optimize the use of our limited resources.
 
JOHN L. ROSE
East Chatham, N.Y., Nov. 16, 1993
The writer is a consuting engineer.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (56%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (65%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: AMTRAK (NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP) NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMTRAK (NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (65%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; HIGH-SPEED RAIL PROJECTS INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (90%); MAGNETIC LEVITATION (90%); BUDGETS (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); TRAINS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (57%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); ROSE, JOHN L JOHN ROSE (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1993



736 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 7; Page 25; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Despair Grows In Brooklyn

BYLINE: By Felicia R. Lee; Felicia R. Lee is a reporter on the metropolitan staff of The New York Times.

 BODY:

THE VILLE
Cops and Kids in Urban America.
By Greg Donaldson.
Illustrated. 401 pp. New York:
Ticknor & Fields. $22.95. 
GARY LEMITE is a New York City housing police officer, a married father of two who is struggling to gain the trappings of middle-class success while negotiating a troubled marriage. Sharron Corley is a teen-age unwed father who shoplifts clothes for his baby and girlfriend and totes a gun. What the two have in common is that they are black men who work the streets of the Brownsville-East New York section of Brooklyn, a deadly neighborhood called "the Ville," where it seems easier to surrender than to succeed.
"The Ville: Cops and Kids in Urban America" is an ambitious, densely packed, atmospheric book that purports to get behind the stereotypes about black adolescents like Mr. Corley and police officers like Mr. Lemite. The neighborhood the book describes, with its usual depressing statistics on homicide, drug use and welfare, is no surprise. But Greg Donaldson, an instructor of reading at New York City Technical College who spent more than a year with Mr. Corley and Mr. Lemite, brings to life the smells, the feelings, the language of Brownsville-East New York and the people who form its world.
His quest has produced an account of how hard it is for people like Mr. Corley simply to do what the rest of the country expects: obtain a diploma, stay out of trouble, get a job or go to college. Mr. Corley lives in a household headed by a hard-drinking mother; he knows few people with a job and earns respect by being bad. Last year a student at his school, Thomas Jefferson High School, fatally shot two other students in the hallway.
The Ville's unrelenting misery and danger -- the police call the bottles and other debris that residents in housing projects throw at them "Brownsville ticker tape" -- breed cynicism and hostility among many police officers, Mr. Donaldson says. Mr. Lemite, who grew up in a white neighborhood and has a white wife, has always been attracted to the adventure of police work and seems really to believe in the Horatio Alger myth, despite the evidence around him.
We see Mr. Lemite begin to question some of his assumptions. There is a chilling scene of mistaken identity in which he is held at gunpoint by two white officers as he stakes out a housing project. And by the end of "The Ville," we also see Mr. Corley spending more time at home and contemplating college.
For all the immediacy that he is able to bring to his book, Mr. Donaldson simply tries to do too much. There are too many stories and too many characters. His method of alternating between the stories of Mr. Corley and Mr. Lemite, and injecting his own analysis -- no matter how cogent -- detracts from the impact a simpler structure could have achieved.
Mr. Donaldson might have been able to offer a greater measure of introspection if, say, he had chosen to profile only Mr. Corley, and had focused more on his beliefs about family, education, crime and work. There are a few tantalizing psychological glimpses, as when Mr. Corley shakes his head at a man who pumps gas for a living and allows that he would never stoop so low.
Mr. Donaldson astutely observes that the children of Brownsville are, above all, consumers driven by a lust for clothes, jewelry and status. Why have they abandoned the hope of anything else, in contrast to the Caribbean students who, Mr. Donaldson notes, seem to hold more traditional values?
Sociologists surely have some answers, but how fascinating it would have been to hear Mr. Corley and his counterparts just thinking aloud. Still, Mr. Donaldson, who has taught school throughout Brooklyn, must be commended for what is, despite its flaws, an engrossing first book.
 
 
 
REBELS WITHOUT A CHANCE
 The teen-agers here are undereducated in most things, but they are connoisseurs of pop culture, ready receptacles for the jingles and scattershot imagery of television. Their speech is drenched in the verbal flotsam of television shows. . . . They know the stars of the soaps and sitcoms as well as they know their neighbors. Brand names tyrannize the classrooms; prestige cars are worshiped. . . . With a neighborhood unemployment rate so high the methods of measuring it are no longer valid, these youths are slated by society to be nothing more than consumers, and somehow they know it.
But they are also a driving force behind pop culture throughout the world, and one of the only charismatic protest cultures left in the United States. . . . Young white kids watch with rapt attention everything they do and say. If they wear their baseball hats backward, their trousers low and loose, kids in the suburbs are quick to swivel their brims to the rear. . . . In a year, lines outside trendy clubs in Paris and Tokyo are filled with would-be homeboys in backward caps and droopy pants.
The irony is that the young white kids are not rebelling against anything, and neither are the boys in the Ville. The young black men in Brownsville indict society by their total belief in it. They trust what they have been told about image, status, competition, hierarchy and the primacy of self-gratification. Their faith is lethal, mostly to themselves.
 From "The Ville."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: VILLE, THE: COPS AND KIDS IN URBAN AMERICA (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CITY LIFE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); MEN (77%); SHOOTINGS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); SINGLE PARENTS (72%); HOMICIDE (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); SHOPLIFTING (57%); 

PERSON: LEE, FELICIA R; DONALDSON, GREG

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



737 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 7; Page 24; Column 3; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: CRIME

BYLINE: By Marilyn Stasio

 BODY:
Editing a weekly newspaper in rural Maine should be a breeze. You put in a few days covering the big news events -- layoffs at the lumber mill, pileups on the highway, opening of ice-fishing season, hockey game at the high school -- then you knock off and go skiing. Right?
Not the way Gerry Boyle tells it in DEADLINE (North Country Press, $17.95), a bone-cracking first novel set in a gritty mill town where the snow starts falling around Labor Day and the hearts of the citizenry stay frozen all year round. That's how it seems to Jack McMorrow, a jaded newsman who has fled New York City to edit The Androscoggin Review. McMorrow runs into granite indifference from the town cops when his staff photographer is found floating in an icy canal, but he attracts plenty of rough attention when he does a little muckraking on the local paper mill. 
 "I didn't trust anybody," McMorrow has to admit, "and in this town, way up here in the woods, it really was a terrifying feeling." Mr. Boyle's emotionally guarded style strongly conveys that stark terror of isolation. There's a steel backbone in his lean plot, and the clipped prose and flinty characterizations are to this rugged literary landscape what the black woods and craggy cliffs are to the contours of Maine -- a daunting kind of beauty.
Christmas is quickly creeping up on Maggody, Ark. (population 755), in O LITTLE TOWN OF MAGGODY (Dutton, $19). But the recession got there first, and folks are singing the blues in the Ozark Mountain hamlet where Joan Hess sets her droll mysteries. What they're actually singing is Matt Montana's lachrymose country hit "You're a Detour on the Highway to Heaven," a song that puts Arly Hanks, the Chief of Police, in mind of hog-slaughtering season.
Arly gets a chance to exercise her "smart mouth and snippety way" when the Nashville star declares himself to be a long-lost son of Maggody and announces that he's coming home for Christmas. Smelling tourist blood, the mayor's fearsomely ambitious wife masterminds a promotional blitz in which the whole town turns itself inside out to capitalize on the golden boy's return. "I hear they're painting Matt's face on the sides of all the cows" is one of Arly's kinder comments on the Matt madness. But she wipes off the smirk when Matt's dear, dotty auntie is kidnapped from the nursing home, and when a Nashville promoter turns up dead in the window of the Official Matt Montana Souvenir Shoppe.
There's a sturdy plot and keen satirical point to all this giddy nonsense. But in the spirit of the season, the author is as generous with her affection as she is with her wit. So, sing out, Maggody -- somebody loves you.
Matt Minogue, the world-weary Dublin Garda inspector in John Brady's brooding police procedurals, drags himself home to County Clare in ALL SOULS (St. Martin's, $20.95), hoping for a bit of a rest. But before he can sip his drop of Jameson and savor the peat fire at his old pub, Minogue steps hip-deep into a bog of local troubles. The rural gentry are in cahoots with a German industrialist whose plans for tourist development are driving farmers like Minogue's brother off their land. The I.R.A. is making hay of the sorry situation by recruiting discontented youths like Minogue's nephew. And an ugly political scandal is fueled by the death of an obsessional, delusional man who may have been falsely convicted of murder many years ago. "Very tricky people down this part of the country," Minogue's partner dryly observes.
The author, who lives in Dublin, pitches the muted tone of his story to the bleak, barren atmosphere of a countryside on the edge of winter. The pace of his story is slow, the plotting is subtle, and passions, even murderous ones, run cold. The warmth is all in the language -- "the light inflections of whimsy, the sonorous and beguiling range of tones and emphases, of words lingered on, others dropped like petals on water, at once inviting and intimate" -- that burns through the cold and lights up the dark.
"Not great, but good" is how John Marshall Tanner sums up his life for a civil rights lawyer from Charleston, S.C., when the two old friends meet at their 25th college reunion in SOUTHERN CROSS (Morrow, $20). Pressed for details, Stephen Greenleaf's honor-bound private eye confesses that his life in San Francisco is "too lonely, too selfish, too ordinary to be great." Any reader who can relate to that middle-aged plaint will sympathize when the conscience-driven hero stops his political waffling and commits himself to the dangerous job of protecting his friend from the murderous threats of a white-racist hate group.
On his initial exposure to Charleston, Tanner is too easily distracted from his duties by the charm and history of the city -- "I had never been in a place that celebrated its past so passionately," he marvels -- and by the seductive graces of its native daughters. But once he gets the guidebook lectures off his chest and starts tracking down the rabid hatemongers and skinhead punks who are persecuting the lawyer and his black clients, Tanner turns over some good dirt on race relations past and present. Although he's more of a gasbag here than usual, with his preachy messages about "America's greatest shame," Tanner is still one of the most relentlessly professional investigators in the game.
Dorothy Simpson's 12th procedural mystery, NO LAUGHING MATTER (Scribners, $20), is well named, because even in her hero's salad days Inspector Luke Thanet never went in much for hooting and hollering. "Amongst policemen an apparently inappropriate levity was often a safety mechanism against the sordid reality of much of their work," he ponderously acknowledges. It just doesn't do the trick for Thanet, whose compassionate heart still does flip-flops at the sight of a corpse. "There was something so poignant about the newly dead," he reflects, after wading through buckets of blood to view the tattered remnants of a vintner who went through the laboratory window of his prosperous family-owned vineyard in the Kentish countryside.
But if Thanet has always been a glum one, the Scotland Yard detective is also a shrewd and observant judge of human nature, as well as a perfectionist in the clever art of the police interview. Not a grape is left unplucked, nor a motive unsqueezed, in his research into the murdered man's business dealings (a bit complicated) and personal character (thoroughly despicable). "We grumble about it," Thanet says about all the verbal bobbing and weaving, "but just think how boring it would be if everybody told us everything we wanted to know straight off." A stuffy man, that Thanet, but never a bore.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: DEADLINE (BOOK); O LITTLE TOWN OF MAGGODY (BOOK); ALL SOULS (BOOK); SOUTHERN CROSS (BOOK); NO LAUGHING MATTER (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); MAINE, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); SAW MILLS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORT FISHING (77%); COUNTRY MUSIC (76%); SKIING (76%); MOUNTAINS (76%); POLICE FORCES (74%); PAPER & PACKAGING (72%); PAPER MILLS (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (71%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (60%); 

PERSON: STASIO, MARILYN; BOYLE, GERRY; HESS, JOAN; BRADY, JOHN; GREENLEAF, STEPHEN ; SIMPSON, DOROTHY MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



738 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 6; Page 29; Column 2; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1993;
Taking It Out in Trade

 BODY:
Money isn't everything. There's compost, ice cream and beer, available free to employees at, respectively, Rodale Press (publishers of "Organic Gardening"), Ben & Jerry's and the Miller Brewing Company.
For many Americans, getting a job would be enough. But the lucky few get jobs plus perks (perquisites). In hidden corners of the economy there is still a gravy, or perhaps an ice-cream, train. 
 At L. L. Bean, employees get free use of snowshoes, tents and other equipment. They also are able to take "outdoor experience days."
CNN gave watches at Christmas, although there is a rumor that many of them broke.
The perks at J. P. Morgan in New York suggest why investment bankers have not been out stumping for President Clinton's health plan. Employees not only have health insurance, they have access to in-house doctors, including an orthopedist and a gynecologist, and a staff social worker for short-term counseling.
Employees at Rikers Island get free tuberculosis tests, although that hardly seems appealing.
Nike provides an extremely appealing range of subsidized services (no free shoes), but it may have a hidden agenda. On its Oregon "campus," says a spokeswoman, Nike has a health club, tennis courts, a delicatessen, a hair salon, a dry cleaner and a day-care center, "so you never have to leave."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (84%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2024 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MILLER BREWING CO (84%); RODALE INC (58%); BEN & JERRY'S HOMEMADE INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; FRINGE BENEFITS DAIRY PRODUCTS (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); GARDENING (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (69%); ORTHOPEDICS (67%); TUBERCULOSIS TESTING (52%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



739 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 6; Page 62; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 3867 words

HEADLINE: Hubble Jeopardy

BYLINE: By Dennis Overbye; Dennis Overbye is the author of "Lonely Hearts of the Cosmos: The Story of the Scientific Quest for the Secret of the Universe." He is at work on a book about Albert Einstein.

 BODY:
Sun beats through the skylights and mingles with the scent of chlorine, creating a tropical oppression atop the Neutral Buoyancy Simulator, a four-story human aquarium at the Marshall Space Flight Center, in Huntsville, Ala. Lying at the bottom of the tank like a sunken pirate ship is the cargo bay of a space shuttle, chockablock with high-tech fittings, boxes, handholds, airlock and a 30-foot white robot arm draped with cables. Nearby, standing upright on the pool bottom, is a sizable section of the Hubble Space Telescope -- not the real one, of course, which has drifted in famous myopia 370 miles above the earth these last three years, but a full-scale model. Kathy Thornton and Tom Akers, dressed in bulbous spacesuits, float through the landscape like marine Robocops, trailing hoses, bubbles and a bevy of frogman assistants.
Prowling the edge of the pool is 58-year-old Story Musgrave: surgeon, parachutist, gardener, ex-marine, literary critic, holder of six university degrees, father of five children, veteran astronaut and bald as a monk. On Wednesday, Musgrave will make his fifth trip into space, accompanied by Akers, Thornton and four other astronauts, aboard a space shuttle Endeavour crammed with tools and instruments. Their mission: repair the orbiting Hubble telescope, which suffers not only blurry vision but also several potentially fatal mechanical ailments. Practice, Musgrave hopes, will make perfect. By early October, he and his crew have spent nearly 400 hours in tanks like the one in Huntsville, rehearsing every conceivable excruciating moment of Hubble's rebirth. 
 When it was launched from the space shuttle in April 1990, after 44 years of planning and development, the Hubble Space Telescope was hailed by the spinmasters of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration as "the greatest advance in astronomy since Galileo." And it might have been. Floating above the earth's unruly atmosphere, the telescope would see what no eyeball had seen before. Its lenses and finely polished mirrors would concentrate the light from distant stars into dots a hundred times finer and more intense than earthbound telescopes, enabling astronomers to peer with unprecedented clarity into the hearts of quasars, seek evidence of black holes, follow the swirling storms of Jupiter and discern galaxies emerging from their milky cribs 10 billion light years away.
Instead, shortly after launching, astronomers discovered that Hubble's 2.4-meter primary mirror (about 94 inches in diameter) had been exquisitely polished to the wrong shape. The telescope became a $1.5 billion laughingstock, and it is now Musgrave's job as payload commander to quell the laughter. It won't be easy. The coming flight, a $690 million undertaking, will include at least five and as many as eight action-filled space walks lasting six hours each. "If they bring the repair mission off, it will be the equivalent of a modern-day miracle," says John Bahcall, an astrophysicist at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., who has been involved in the space telescope for years. "I'll be there cheering and praying."
When Musgrave and his crew clamber up the side of the space telescope later this week, however, more than the secrets of the universe will be at stake. Their jobs, for example. NASA long ago bet the future of the space program on the notion that humans can routinely and economically work in space. But a decade into the space shuttle era, space work seems more costly and dangerous than ever. The agency's credibility now dangles precariously, unlikely to survive any more setbacks like the 1986 explosion of Challenger, the disappearance this summer of the Mars Observer -- and recent NASA inspector general reports that the agency's contractors overcharge and many of its employees sleep on the job.
A recent Senate committee report spells it out in so many words: "Should this mission fail to live up to the promise that Hubble's capabilities will be fully restored as a result of this undertaking, NASA's entire flight program will suffer a substantive and financial setback that will take many years from which to recover." The agency administrator, Daniel Goldin, dismisses that assessment. "If our space program depends on just this one mission," he grumbles, "we shouldn't have a space program." Like it or not, though, the message could not be clearer: One small misstep by the Hubble repairmen could mean one giant leap backward for space agencykind.
HUBBLE IS A RELIC OF A time when NASA thought humans could do anything and everything in space. "The astronauts originally wanted it to be a manned telescope," says Lyman Spitzer, the Princeton astronomer who cooked up the idea back in 1946. In the early 1970's, advocates of the space telescope played on NASA's enthusiasm for manned flight by designing it to be serviced by astronauts from the then-coming space shuttle. Musgrave, who at the time was NASA's resident expert on space walks, offered critical advice. As a result Hubble, completed in 1989, came equipped with 225 linear feet of handrails and 31 pins for attaching portable foot restraints. "Hubble is very E.V.A. friendly," Musgrave says proudly, using astronaut-speak for extra-vehicular activity.
User-friendliness came at a price. The telescope was constrained to a low orbit, roughly 370 miles up, that the shuttle could reach. At that altitude, however, the earth blocks half the sky, limiting observations of any particular celestial object to less than half of each 96-minute orbit. And making the telescope compatible with astronaut repairmen proved expensive. "Imagine," says one astronomer, "what your television would look like if all its components had to be accessible from the outside to someone wearing boxing gloves."
Mismanagement, turf wars, inadequate financing while NASA strained to pay for the shuttle and simple incompetence led to the black day in the summer of 1990 when astronomers discovered Hubble's flaw. The outer edges of the primary mirror were seven hundred-thousandths of an inch too low, an amateurish optical mistake. Computer processors at the Space Telescope Science Institute in Baltimore quickly managed to correct for the aberration and reconstruct images of relatively bright objects. But Hubble's cosmic potential was still unfulfilled, a major shortcoming for an instrument that costs more than $100 million a year to operate. "They've got to repair it," says Marc Davis, an astronomer at the University of California at Berkeley. "Or they should close down the institute."
The fix had already begun. Even before Hubble's launching, NASA had built a backup replacement for the main camera, known as WFPC (pronounced wiff-pick, for wide field and planetary camera), and had scheduled installation for the first astronaut house call in 1993. When he heard about the aberration, John Trauger, principal scientist on the WFPC-2 team at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, realized that they could correct for the effects of Hubble's warp by outfitting the new camera with small mirrors containing precisely the opposite warp.
But Hubble's problems kept mounting. Ground controllers discovered that the telescope shakes violently for about 10 minutes twice each orbit when it passes between day and night; the poles supporting the blanketlike solar arrays expand and contract unevenly during the temperature change, causing the arrays to flutter. If they rip, the observatory will lose power and die. To make matters worse, soon after launching the gyroscopes that control the telescope's spatial orientation began to fail. Hubble had been launched with six gyroscopes. By last summer only three were still working -- the minumum needed. Fortunately, help was on the way.
THE CREW OF SPACE Shuttle Endeavour is probably the most experienced ever to fly into space. Its seven members have among them 16 space flights and, perhaps more important, 31 hours of space walks. The commander, Dick Covey, and the pilot, Ken Bowersox, have flown the shuttle before. Musgrave made the first-ever space walk from the shuttle, in 1983. During the repair he will work with Jeffrey Hoffman, who was an X-ray astronomer at M.I.T. before joining the astronaut corps in 1978, and who is making his fourth flight. The other space-walking pair consists of Akers, a twinkly-eyed former high-school principal and Air Force pilot, and Thornton, a slight, brown-haired nuclear physicist, both of whom have been to space twice. The shuttle's robot arm, crucial to the mission, will be operated by Claude Nicollier, a Swiss astronaut who represents the European Space Agency.
A day in the tank, however, is no advertisement for the glamorous astronaut life. The morning starts at 7 with a briefing, and NASA does not provide coffee; the astronauts straggle in, bleary-eyed, carrying bag lunches. Thornton wears a T-shirt declaring "Maggots in Space 1984" -- not a reference to a shuttle biology experiment, but the motto of her graduating astronaut class.
The briefers report that the new practice robot arm is having troubles and may have to be replaced with an older, less reliable one. Moreover, they caution that the chlorine in the pool is corroding the paint, creating a fine powder that accumulates on the bottom and is easily stirred up.
The plan for the day calls for Akers and Thornton to practice their second space walk, or E.V.A., in which they are scheduled to replace Hubble's solar arrays. "We've never done this whole E.V.A. before, only bits and pieces," Thornton says in a drawl that belies her Alabama origins. "Connecting the tasks is where all the choreography comes in."
Akers and Thornton spend most of the morning getting dressed and undressed while technicians fuss with the robot arm. When Thornton finally shows up poolside, looking like a Klingon in a white bodysuit veined with cooling tubes, Akers kids her about her figure. Thornton then lies on her back on a black mat and begins squirming, as a technician slides her into her iron-waisted trousers. Standing, her pants down around her knees, she then ducks into the torso unit hanging on a nearby stanchion, and is cinched up. Dressing is easier in zero gravity, Thornton grunts in her 300-pound suit. Now, her belt weighted with tools and her helmet fastened down, Thornton waves goodbye and settles slowly into the pool.
After much debate, divers swarm into the pool to disconnect the new robot arm and reinstall the old one, which has been lying on the bottom. With the good arm now unavailable, Musgrave scraps the original practice exercise; instead, Thornton and Akers will practice replacing the gyro systems, scheduled for the first day of space walks. Thornton rides on the platform at the end of the robot arm, barking continual radio instructions to Nicollier in a mock shuttle cabin a few feet away. Akers, attaching tethers as he goes, clambers like Spider-Man around the shuttle bay and the telescope.
Musgrave sits in a control room downstairs, watching the monitor. Things aren't going well in the cloudy tank. At one point Thornton accidentally jettisons half her tools; Akers is busy coaxing a rusty bolt to life. It's all good practice, Musgrave points out: a loose or broken bolt floating through the telescope would do as much damage as a hand grenade.
Akers suddenly breaks radio silence.
"See what happened, Story?" he asks.
"No, I can only see your backpack"
"That's good."
An astronaut since 1967, Musgrave is the straw that stirs this drink. He joined the astronaut corps hoping to get to the moon. When NASA cut back on the number of planned Apollo flights -- having won the space race -- Musgrave was left without a ticket. He would wait 16 years before getting to space, a memory that still rankles.
In the meantime he managed to fly more than 17,000 hours, earn an airline pilot license and make more than 460 parachute jumps. His medical and physiological expertise (Musgrave worked as a surgeon throughout his career, even as he compiled university degrees from coast to coast) was put to work helping NASA to develop spacesuits and space-walk techniques for the space shuttle. That in turn him made a natural choice to help develop the space telescope. Unsurprisingly, Musgrave was the first astronaut chosen, in April 1992, for the repair flight, an honor that he views as entirely fitting.
"When I was a kid, I liked to lie on my back and watch the stars at night," he says. "I've thought of that instrument as contributing to my personal ideas about my place in the universe, about what it is to be human."
In the last 20 months, the repair mission has taken over Musgrave's life. Last summer it nearly cost him his fingers. Early plans for the flight called for the shuttle to fly in such a way that the cargo bay would be kept in darkness, to prevent sunlight from damaging the telescope's delicate optics. Training in a vacuum tank in Houston that simulated those conditions, Musgrave got frostbite on four digits. He had been handling tools whose temperature had descended to minus 130 degrees Fahrenheit.
"The plan was changed," he says grimly.
Since then, Musgrave has developed a nearly zenlike passion for, literally, nuts and bolts. One screw in particular occupies his thoughts and dreams. Known as the "A" latch, it's not just any screw; this one is a rod seven feet long. It holds the $100 million WFPC camera, about the shape and mass of a grand piano, in place on Hubble. There's a light to tell when the latch is about to settle in, and there are springs to keep it from jamming too far. It will be the job of Musgrave and Hoffman to unscrew that latch, slide out the old camera and slide in the new, improved version. When they screw that latch back down, snapping WFPC-2 into register, the space telescope for the first time will be blessed with the crystal vision its founders intended.
For the dime-sized corrective mirrors to work their magic, however, WFPC-2 must be precisely aligned with the optical axis of the telescope. All this makes WFPC-2 extremely delicate, no part more so than a small mirror that pokes out from the front to divert light into the camera. Just before the astronauts slide WFPC-2 into place, Musgrave will remove the cover from the mirror -- very carefully. If the mirror alignment is disturbed by as much as one-quarter of a degree, the images will be worse than before. "In that case," Hoffman says, "you can just open your spacesuit vents, disconnect your tether, and push off."
Musgrave has prepared for the moment like Baryshnikov. He knows where every appendage of his space-suited body will be when it comes time to remove the cover from the mirror, that fragile portal of dreams. So when an engineer from the Goddard Space Flight Center, fearful of cross-threading the all-important bolt, suggests during an evening debriefing that the astronauts lower the setting on their power torque wrench, Musgrave does not react lightly. Leaping from his chair, he scolds the engineer for fiddling at the last minute with well-learned work habits. To reset the torque wrench, Musgrave points out, an astronaut would have to swivel to face the work station on the robot arm, turning his back on WFPC-2. "The program is at risk," he declares flatly.
The engineer takes Musgrave's outburst in stride. "It's a good sign," he says later. "It means the crew is ready to fly. They're pumped."
THE FOLLOWING morning finds Thornton and Akers back in the tank, rehearsing the installation of an ingenious gadget known as Costar, for Corrective Optics Space Telescope Axial Replacement, the second of the two devices that will restore Hubble's eyesight. Costar was invented by a team of systems engineers at the Space Telescope Science Institute who were trying to figure out a way to correct the light entering the four other scientific instruments on Hubble. Nobody could devise a solution until Jim Crocker, a member of the team, had a revelation in a Munich shower.
"The shower head was on a bar," he explains. "It ran up and down and folded up." It occurred to Crocker that if the astronauts removed one of Hubble's instruments there would be room to insert a narrow tower up through the crowded focal plane, which could then unfold like a Swiss Army knife, lodging pairs of small corrective mirrors in front of the apertures of the other instruments. Back home in Baltimore, Crocker made a model of the aft end of the telescope and of his invention using plastic foam and his son's set of Ramagons, the modern equivalent of Tinker Toys. "The box said they had been used by NASA to design the space station," Crocker says.
The delicacy and cleverness of Costar's innards are obscured by the brute operation of installing them. Four of Hubble's instruments, each in a box the size of a telephone booth, are aligned with the axis of the telescope and are enclosed by doors that ring its base; they slide in and out on rails. (WFPC-2 slides into the side of the telescope, above them.) Light from the telescope falls on a saucer-sized area at the center where the phone booths come together. To insert Costar the astronauts must engage in an intricate dance of weightless phone booths. First they must pull out one instrument and park it in a temporary carrier on the side of the cargo bay. Then they must open the container in which Costar has been stored during the flight, lift it out and slide it into the vacated space, screwing down the assorted latches that connect it firmly and accurately to the telescope. Finally the sacrificed instrument -- the high speed photometer, which rapidly and accurately measures the brightness of celestial objects -- will be put in Costar's container and returned to earth.
Today, with the good robot arm in place and working, the rehearsal goes smoothly. Thornton rides up to the telescope, its bay doors tethered wide, and grabs the handles of the high speed photometer. Nicollier pulls her back and the instrument slides free. An hour later, right on the time line, Costar is in place. The astronauts move on to their next task, adding more memory to the spacecraft's computer.
By last spring there were 12 items on Musgrave's to-do list. Seven of the tasks, including the replacement of the solar arrays, gyros, WFPC and Costar, are considered so crucial to the survival and scientific capacity of the telescope that, according to the mission director, Randy Brinkley, NASA would consider a second repair flight to finish them. The agency originally hoped to complete the work in three space walks -- the standard shuttle capacity -- but Musgrave pushed for more. "They finally gave me five," he says. "I just wanted the resources. Everything we're doing must be done."
THERE ARE BILLIONS OF REASONS to root for Musgrave and his companions -- one for every galaxy and star of which the reborn telescope will have an unfettered view. The clear view will enable astronomers to tackle some large-scale questions. How fast is the universe expanding? Will the galaxies all fall back together in some future millenium, starry cymbals in a giant clash? By detecting and timing the variations of individual stars known as Cepheid variables in faraway galaxies, Jeremy Mould, a Caltech astronomer, and his colleagues hope to fix precise distances to those starry clouds. Closer to home, other astronomers hope to train the Hubble on Jupiter next July. Some 20 chunks of a comet, several as big as a mile across, are predicted to crash into the planet's back side in the biggest cataclysm in recorded history, producing fireballs the size of Texas.
Restoring the Hubble telescope, however, may not completely mend NASA's frayed relationship with scientists. With an astronomy and astrophysics budget of more than $700 million, NASA is the biggest sponsor of stargazing in the world. Yet its gifts often come with strings that drive up costs and have little to do with science. During the 1980's, for instance, the agency required satellites to be launched by the problematic and often delayed shuttle. Many scientists now argue that NASA should be split into two agencies: one to do science, the other to run the shuttle trucking business.
The space agency itself likes to view the Hubble repair as evidence of a new NASA -- or of the good old NASA returned. But optimistic rhetoric cannot disguise the fact that NASA has foundered for a mission ever since it beat the Russians to the moon. With the cold war over, the public appetite for ambitious scientific projects has diminished. And NASA offers no new dream to lift us, or itself. The proposed international space station and Mission to Planet Earth may be responsible public works projects, but they are hardly stirring. To save the world -- or at least regain its own technological edge -- NASA needs an inspiration, and the universe is waiting.
THIS, THEN, IS THE PLAN so far: To match the telescope's orbit, the shuttle Endeavour must blast off at about 4:30 A.M. Eastern Time Wednesday. For the next two days, Endeavour will chase the telescope, finally grab it with the robot arm and dock it in the cargo bay on the third day. That could be the diciest day of the flight. Last year, after two tries to nab the Intelsat satellite with the robot arm, three astronauts had to grab it by hand.
The repair work begins the next day. "We'll probably be out of the airlock early for the first couple of space walks," Thornton says. "And then we'll be dragging." To maintain the crew's sleep schedule established by the launch time, all the space walks will take place at night United States time. Musgrave and Hoffman will exit the air lock for the first space walk at about the time New Yorkers are tuning into "Saturday Night Live." The two will alternate nights with Thornton and Akers.
"The philosophy for working in space," a tanned and rangy Hoffman explains during a lull in the Huntsville proceedings, "is the same as for working on your car. One: Don't hurt yourself. Two: Don't break anything that's not already broken." In space, of course, as under your car, a million things can go wrong. "Just replacing WFPC is the kind of thing they would devote a whole mission to, and we've got five of those days," Hoffman says. "Only with a certain amount of luck will we be able to do everything."
No one seems more determined to exploit luck than Musgrave. "We're prepared to do the whole thing without the robot arm," he volunteers. Sitting in the control room while Thornton and Akers swim on the monitor above him, Musgrave lists the contingencies and backup procedures that had been included in the rehearsals: cranking out the new solar arrays by hand if they fail to extend automatically, jettisoning the old ones if they fail to roll up properly, carrying along spare bolts and WFPC latches.
"We'll get it done, but not without surprises," Musgrave says. "You can change our flight plan while we're out there and we'll get it done. That's a requirement I put down at the start." He leans forward, his head back-lit by flickering video screens. "It's gonna be drama," he says with a smile. "Just stand by."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Eye Doctor Is In. Jeffrey Hoffman floats in a human aquarium as he rehearses for this week's mission to repair the Hubble Space Telescope. (pg. 62); LIGHTS, CAMERA, ACTION! -- Hubble's troubles stem from a flaw in its 94-inch primary mirror, which blurs the light beam bouncing toward the wide-field planetary camera, as shown in schematic diagram above. By replacing the camera with a modified backup version, WFPC-2, right, astronauts hope to correct the telescope's vision. WFPC-2 captures the light beam with a series of mirrors. After striking the doughnut-shaped relay primary mirror, the light bounces to the relay secondary mirror, which has been exquisitely shaped to compensate for Hubble's original flaw. Now properly focused, the light beam then passes through the hole in the relay primary mirror to electronic sensors, which send the image back to Earth in digital form. A phone-booth sized device called Costar will correct the light entering Hubble's four other scientific instruments (outlined in green above) -- but only by sacrificing one of them. Below, Jeffrey Hoffman (at left) and Story Musgrave, in the simulator pool, try sliding WFPC-2 into place. At right, Kathryn Thornton uses a rachet tool to loosen bolts on hatches built into the telescope. (pg. 64-65); Practice makes perfect. At left, rigged in a zero-gravity simulator at the NASA Johnson Space Center in Houston, Story Musgrave rehearses handling Costar, one of the devices that is intended to correct the Hubble Space Telescope's eyesight. Above, the mission commander, Richard Covey, left, and Jeffrey Hoffman learn how to use the high-tech photographic equipment of the space shuttle Endeavour, which will take them to the telescope. They are standing on the flight deck of the shuttle simulator at the Johnson Center. Below, five members of the repair team -- from left, Hoffman, Kenneth Bowersox, Musgrave, Covey and Claude Nicollier -- review the contents of their toolbox; their surgical garb protects the equipment from dust and hair. At bottom left, Akers gets a hand with his iron trousers before stepping into zero-gravity simulator. (pg. 66-67); Dressing for success: Story Musgrave, who is surgeon, parachutist, gardener, ex-marine and literary critic as well as astronaut, dons his 300-pound work suit, left. Above, the crew of the space shuttle Endeavour -- from left, Jeffrey Hoffman, Claude Nicollier, Tom Akers, Richard Covey, Kathryn Thornton, Kenneth Bowersoxand Musgrave -- model their launch wear at the NASA Kennedy Space Center in Florida. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROGER RESSMEYER/STARLIGHT, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: EARTH (93%); ALABAMA, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (66%); 

CITY: HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (91%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION (NASA) NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (90%); LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (59%); JOHN F KENNEDY SPACE CENTER (59%); JOHN F KENNEDY SPACE CENTER (59%); LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION (NASA) NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (90%); LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (59%); JOHN F KENNEDY SPACE CENTER (59%); JOHN F KENNEDY SPACE CENTER (59%); LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (91%); EARTH (93%); ALABAMA, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (66%); HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (91%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; SPACE SHUTTLE; ENDEAVOUR (SPACE SHUTTLE); HUBBLE SPACE TELESCOPE; TELESCOPES AND OBSERVATORIES SPACECRAFT (93%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (92%); OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (90%); SPACE SHUTTLE (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); ROBOTICS (71%); LITERARY CRITICISM (53%); 

PERSON: OVERBYE, DENNIS

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



740 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 6; Page 52; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 3180 words

HEADLINE: The Dalai Lama

BYLINE: By Claudia Dreifus; Claudia Dreifus is an interviewer for Playboy, TV Guide and other major magazines.

 BODY:
The last place one expects to find His Holiness Tenzin Gyatso, the 14th Dalai Lama of Tibet, the exiled secular and religious leader of the Tibetan people, the winner of the 1989 Nobel Peace Prize, the world's leading exponent of nonviolent political change, is at a glitzy Tucson, Ariz., golfing resort called the Sheraton El Conquistador. Yet there he was on a recent autumn morning, dressed in his traditional maroon robes, surrounded by Buddhist monks and non-Buddhist bodyguards, astonishing tourists as he rushed past the snack bar.
The Dalai Lama had come to this unlikely corner of the world to give a series of interpretive readings from "A Guide to the Bodhisattva's Way of Life" by Shantideva, an eighth-century Buddhist saint. For five full days, 1,500 attendees risked bad backs and cramped hands to sit for hours taking notes on the nature of patience. For them, participants in the expanding Buddhist movement in the Western world, this was a rare opportunity to study with the head of the faith -- the equivalent of taking Bible classes from the Pope. Moreover, many of the aspirants were more secular types, veterans of the 1960's who'd come to regard the Dalai Lama as the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., the Mahatma Gandhi of this political moment. It is a forum the Dalai Lama clearly enjoys, a needed break from routine as head of the Tibetan government-in-exile in India. "I am a simple Buddhist monk -- no more, no less," he often says of himself. At the teachings, he gets to be that. 
 Yet his life has been anything but simple. Born in 1935 to a peasant family in northeast Tibet, he was, at the age of 2, identified after the death of the 13th Dalai Lama as the 14th reincarnation of the Buddha of Compassion. That recognition brought a new name; Lhamo Thondup now became Jetsun Jamphel Ngawang Lobsang Yeshe Tenzin Gyatso (Holy Lord, Gentle Glory, Eloquent, Compassionate, Learned Defender of the Faith, Ocean of Wisdom). Taken to Lhasa to be educated, he grew up in a 1,000-room palace, surrounded by doting monks who tutored him in subjects like philosophy, medicine and metaphysics and gave him a childhood of pure magic.
The magic ended in 1950 when the 15-year-old Dalai Lama was called upon to assume full powers as head of state. This, at the very moment the People's Liberation Army of China was invading Tibet. For the next nine years, the young ruler attempted to negotiate with Mao Zedong and Chou En-lai, who were intent on absorbing Tibet into China. Then, in 1959, after China brutally "quelled" a Tibetan civilian uprising against Chinese rule, the Dalai Lama fled to India; some 100,000 Tibetans have since followed him across the Himalayas.
In India, he was permitted to set up a government-in-exile in a small village, Dharamsala, a long day's drive from New Delhi. "His Holiness reconstructed a viable Tibetan community in India, preserving the culture of Tibet," says his close friend Robert Thurman, professor of Indo-Tibetan studies at Columbia University. "He held the Tibetan people together in exile and gave them hope during the very severe, even genocidal oppression in their homeland. He's also the first leader of Tibet to become a world leader, even without a political base -- just on his moral force."
In Tucson, a day after his teachings were completed, the Dalai Lama met in his suite with the interviewer. As would be expected from someone who has been worshiped as a demigod since age 2, he greets strangers with a mask of pleasant formality, which soon melts as he becomes engaged in ideas and conversation. An hour and a half becomes three; formality turns to laughter. One senses he's a little bored by the adulation that is his daily fare. The most striking thing about the Dalai Lama is his capacity for joy -- how widely he smiles, how amused he is by his own contradictions, his own human foibles. The journalist William Shirer once said of his interviews with Gandhi in the 1930's, "You felt you were the only person in the room, that he had all the time in the world for you." This is true of Tenzin Gyatso also.
Q: Your Holiness, you seem such a happy person. Have there been moments in your life when your faith in human goodness was tested?
The Dalai Lama: No.
Q:You've never felt in danger of becoming cynical?
A: No. Of course, when I say that human nature is gentleness, it is not 100 percent so. Every human being has that nature, but there are many people acting against their nature, being false. Certainly there have been sad moments for me. The Chinese suppressions in Lhasa in 1987, 1988, now that was sad. A great many people were killed. I am sometimes sad when I hear the personal stories of Tibetan refugees who have been tortured or beaten. Some irritation, some anger comes. But it never lasts long. I always try to think at a deeper level, to find ways to console.
Q: I understand that you were very angry during the 1990 gulf war, as angry as you've ever been.
A: Angry? No. But one thing, when people started blaming Saddam Hussein, then my heart went out to him.
Q: To Saddam Hussein?
A: Yes. Because this blaming everything on him -- it's unfair. He may be a bad man, but without his army, he cannot act as aggressively as he does. And his army, without weapons, cannot do anything. And these weapons were not produced in Iraq itself. Who supplied them? Western nations! So one day something happened and they blamed everything on him -- without acknowledging their own contributions. That's wrong. The gulf crisis also clearly demonstrated the serious implications of the arms trade. War -- without an army, killing as few people as possible -- is acceptable. But the suffering of large numbers of people due to a military mission, that is sad.
Q: Did you say that killing sometimes is acceptable?
A: Comparatively. In human society, some people do get killed, for a variety of reasons. However, when you have an established army, and countries with those armies go to war, the casualties are immense. It's not one or two casualties, it's thousands. And with nuclear weapons, it's millions, really millions. For that reason, the arms trade is really irresponsible. Irresponsible! Global demilitarization is essential.
Q: In Tibet, from the late 1950's until the early 1970's, one of your brothers was involved in leading a guerrilla movement against the Chinese. In fact, the guerrillas were supported by the C.I.A. How did you feel about that?
A: I'm always against violence. But the Tibetan guerrillas were very dedicated people. They were willing to sacrifice their own lives for the Tibetan nation. And they found a way to receive help from the C.I.A. Now, the C.I.A.'s motivation for helping was entirely political. They did not help out of genuine sympathy, not out of support for a just cause. That was not very healthy.
Today, the help and support we receive from the United States is truly out of sympathy and human compassion. In spite of their desire for good relations with China, the Congress of the United States at least supports Tibetan human rights. So this is something really precious, genuine.
Q: To change the subject, you have spoken, as few religious leaders have, of the dangers of global overpopulation.
A: Well, the population problem is a serious reality. In India, some people were reluctant to accept birth control because of religious traditions. So I thought, from the Buddhist viewpoint, there is a possibility of flexibility on this problem. I thought it might be good to speak out and eventually create more open space for leaders in other religious traditions to discuss the issue.
Q: How do you feel, then, about Pope John Paul II's continued opposition to birth control?
A: That's his religious principle. He is acting from a certain principle -- especially when he speaks about the need to respect the rights of fetuses. Actually, I feel very touched that the Pope has taken a stand on that.
Q: Can you also understand the needs of a woman who might not be able to raise a child?
A: When I was in Lithuania a few years ago, I visited a nursery and I was told, "All these children are unwanted." So I think it is better that that situation be stopped right from the beginning -- birth control. Of course, abortion, from a Buddhist viewpoint, is an act of killing and is negative, generally speaking. But it depends on the circumstances. If the unborn child will be retarded or if the birth will create serious problems for the parent, these are cases where there can be an exception. I think abortion should be approved or disapproved according to each circumstance.
Q: I understand you've experienced a major change in thinking about the role of women in the world.
A: It's not so much a change. I've gained an awareness of the sensitivity of women's issues; even in the 1960's and 1970's, I didn't have much knowledge of this problem. The basic Buddhist stand on the question of equality between the genders is age-old. At the highest tantric levels, at the highest esoteric level, you must respect women: every woman. In Tibetan society, there has been some careless discrimination. Yet there have been exceptional women, high lamas, who are respected throughout Tibet.
Q: In a recent issue of the Buddhist magazine Tricycle, the actor Spalding Gray asked you about your dreams, and you said you sometimes dreamt of women fighting.
A: Women fighting? No, no. . . . What I meant was that, in my dreams, sometimes women approach me and I immediately realize, "I'm bhikshu, I'm monk." So you see, this is sort of sexual. . . .
Q: In your dreams, you realize this and you "fight" the feeling?
A: Yes. Similarly, I have dreams where someone is beating me and I want to respond. Then, immediately I remember, "I am monk and I should not kill."
Q: Do you ever experience rages? Even Jesus had rages.
A: Don't compare me with Jesus. He is a great master, a great master. . . . But as to your question, when I was younger, I did get angry. In the past 30 years, no. One thing, the hatred, the ill-feeling, that's almost gone.
Q: So what are your weaknesses and faults?
A: Laziness.
Q: It is said that you get up at 4 in the morning. How can you be lazy?
A: It's not that kind of laziness. For instance, sometimes, when I visit some Western countries, I develop an enthusiasm to improve my English. But when I actually make the effort to study, after a few days, my enthusiasm is finished. [Laughs.] That is laziness. Other weaknesses are, I think, anger and attachments. I'm attached to my watch and my prayer beads. Then, of course, sometimes beautiful women. . . . But then, many monks have the same experience. Some of it is curiosity: If you use this, what is the feeling? [Points to his groin.]
Then, of course, there is the feeling that something sexual must be something very happy, a marvelous experience. When this develops, I always see the negative side. There's an expression from Nagurajuna, one of the Indian masters: "If you itch, it's nice to scratch it. But it's better to have no itch at all." Similarly with the sexual desire. If it is possible to be without that feeling, there is much peace. [Smiles.] And without sex, there's no worry about abortion, condoms, things like that.
Q: Sir, your laugh is world famous -- what makes you laugh?
A: There is something in my family . . . a tendency to laugh a lot. One brother, Gyalo Thondup, doesn't laugh too much. Another, Lobsang Samten, was very fond of cracking dirty jokes. A third, Taktser Rinpoche, he also laughed a lot. And Tibetans generally are very good-natured. In my childhood, I had a religious assistant who always told me, "If you can really laugh with full abandonment, it's very good for your health."
Q: What do you do for leisure, to relax?
A: I like to let my thoughts come to me each morning before I get up. I meditate for a few hours and that is like recharging. After that, my daily conduct is usually driven by the motivation to help, to create a positive atmosphere for others. I garden . . . gardening is one of my hobbies. Also, reading encyclopedias with pictures. [Laughs.] I am a man of peace, but I am fond of looking at picture books of the Second World War. I own some, which I believe are produced by Time-Life. I've just ordered a new set. Thirty books.
Q: Really? Why does the Reincarnation of Compassion have such a fascination with one of the most terrible events in human history?
A: Perhaps because the stories are so negative and gruesome, they strengthen my belief in nonviolence. [Smiles.] However, I find many of the machines of violence very attractive. Tanks, airplanes, warships, especially aircraft carriers. And the German U-boats, submarines. . . .
Q: I once read that as a little boy in Lhasa, you liked war toys.
A: Yes, very much. I also had an air rifle in Lhasa. And I have one in India. I often feed small birds, but when they come together, hawks spot them and catch them -- a very bad thing. So in order to protect these small birds, I keep the air rifle.
Q: So it is a Buddhist rifle?
A: [Laughs] A compassionate rifle!
Q: Let me ask you a difficult question in that regard. You are indispensable to your movement. Are you ever afraid you might suffer the same fate as Mahatma Gandhi and Martin Luther King Jr.?
A: The thought sometimes crosses my mind. As far as being "indispensable," people can carry on without me.
Q: Asian scholars say that the Tibetan nation wouldn't have survived after 1959 if you had not been such a skilled political leader. That being the case, aren't you concerned that the Chinese might try to finish off the Tibetan independence movement by killing you?
A: Some Chinese have frankly said to Tibetans: "You only have one person. If we take care of that, the problem is solved."
Q: Have you prepared yourself for the possibility?
A: Not really, although in general, as a Buddhist, my daily meditation involves preparation for death. Death by natural causes, I'm fully prepared for. If sudden death comes, that is tragic -- from the viewpoint of practitioners.
Q: In September, the Palestinians accepted a compromise for regional autonomy. If the Chinese offered such a deal, would you accept?
A: Actually, for the past 14 years, my basic position has been very similar. There is one difference: in the Palestinian case, virtually every government viewed the Territories as occupied and showed concern. In the Tibetan case only the U.S. Congress and some legal experts consider Tibet an occupied land with the right of self-determination.
Q: What was your feeling when you watched the recent signing of the Middle East peace agreement?
A: It's a great achievement. This issue is just one year older than the Tibetan issue. Our problem started in 1949, theirs in 1948. In those years, a lot of hatred developed. Imagine: Palestinians were taught to hate from childhood. That was seen as good for the national interest. In fact, it was rather negative; a lot of violence took place. Now, both sides came to an agreement in the spirit of reconciliation, in the spirit of nonviolence. This is wonderful.
Q: Are there any signs that the Chinese might accept a compromise?
A: [Quickly] No.
Q: You once wrote that the Chinese want to rule the world. Do you still think so?
A: I didn't mean it that way. The remark was related more to the Marxist world intention, rather than Chinese national historical expansionism.
Q: Do you think that still is the case?
A: It's changed, I think. That kind of spirit . . . perhaps in the 1960's, with the Cultural Revolution, it was there. On the Soviet side, Khrushchev realized around 1956 that that kind of goal was not realistic. By the end of the Cultural Revolution, in the 1970's, the Chinese realized that it was out of the question. Now I think the issue is Chinese nationalist historic chauvinism. To them, all other people are barbarians.
Q: Including you?
A: Oh, certainly! Of course! They are a proud nation. With Marxism gone, the strategy is to reach the economic levels of Western countries. They consider themselves a champion of the third world, particularly after the Soviet Union collapsed. They see Russia as having become a part of the West. So what you have is the most populous nation, the worst kind of totalitarian system, the rule of terror -- with nuclear weapons and with an ideology that force is the ultimate source of power. Their economy was poor, but now it is improving -- without changing those other things. Time magazine has called them "the super-power of the next century."
Q: Does that scare you?
A: We already lost our country. But I'm concerned about the world! The world community has the moral responsibility to see democracy in China. Now, how to bring it about? The Chinese intellectuals and the students, they are already a strong political force, and very essential. The world community must give every encouragement to that force. We should not indulge any act which discourages them.
Q: Did you think at the time of the Tiananmen Square uprising that the democracy movement would succeed?
A: Yes. Actually, the events of the 4th of June shocked me. I did not expect them to fire on their own people.
Q: But if the Chinese Communists have been as ruthless against Tibetans as you charge, why not against pro-democracy demonstrators?
A: Because it was their own people! How could they shoot them? During the Cultural Revolution, this was understandable. Tiananmen Square proved that a regime that would have no hesitation to shoot their own people, such a regime. . . . There should be no doubt about their attitude towards other nationalities.
Q: Given that not-so-optimistic assessment, what possible scenarios for China and Tibet do you see?
A: Basically, the Chinese Communist regime, it's only a matter of time: it will change. Worldwide today, there is a growth of freedom and democracy. And the democratic movement, inside and outside China, is still very active. Once the Chinese are willing to listen to others' problems, the Tibetans will not be against the Chinese nation. My approach is in the spirit of reconciliation. Certainly we can have an agreement.
In the meantime, the international community must support Tibet and put pressure on China. Without that, our own approach, according to the last 14 years of experience, has no hope of response.
Q: In closing, I read somewhere that you are predicting that the 21st century, unlike the 20th, is to be a century of peace and justice. Why?
A: Because I believe that in the 20th century, humanity has learned from many, many experiences. Some positive, and many negative. What misery, what destruction! The greatest number of human beings were killed in the two world wars of this century. But human nature is such that when we face a tremendous critical situation, the human mind can wake up and find some other alternative. That is a human capacity.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tenzin Gyatso as a child, already in training as the 14th Dalai Lama. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAGNUM )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview; Biography

COUNTRY: TIBET (96%); CHINA (94%); INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: SOUTHWEST CHINA (94%); XIZANG, CHINA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (91%); 

CITY: TUCSON, AZ, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TIBET TIBET (96%); CHINA (94%); INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (94%); XIZANG, CHINA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (91%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BUDDHISM; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION RELIGION (99%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (92%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); PHILOSOPHY (72%); GOLF (57%); 

PERSON: DREIFUS, CLAUDIA; DALAI LAMA DALAI LAMA (90%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



741 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 6; Page 40; Column 3; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: PUBLUC STAGES;
Burn, Baby, Burn!

BYLINE: By Frank Rich

 BODY:
I was 7 when I tried to burn down the forest bordering my suburban neighborhood. My friends and I had no good excuse with which to placate the army of parents who descended after only a few sticks and shrubs went up in flames.
It never would have occurred to us to say that Howdy Doody, that notorious reprobate among television puppets of the time, made us do it. Only in retrospect could I argue that we were 60's rebels in embryo, venting antiauthoritarian impulses against that fascist, Smokey the Bear. 
 Even though I've long since outgrown the childhood urge to play with matches, I still find fires mesmerizing -- as long as they're someone else's and seen from a safe distance. I am hardly alone. When large patches of Southern California coastline went up in flames for Halloween, television reporters rushed to the scene, eager to satisfy the huge market for pyromaniacal pornography. Alhough the networks called their reports news, this was merely a convenience so no one would feel too guilty about their voyeurism. The news was presented as entertainment, and it was.
Inevitably so, perhaps. From the day that Americans first witnessed a murder live on television 30 years ago last week -- Jack Ruby's of Lee Harvey Oswald -- the appetite for televised images of real-life carnage has grown. Video technology has long since caught up with the appetite. If CNN is not bringing us continuous coverage of a war or natural disaster, then Court TV is offering a play-by-play of the behind-closed-doors mayhem practiced by the Menendez brothers. All the world's a Zapruder film that can be endlessly re-examined frame by frame on a VCR.
Typically, the California fire story was dressed up with artful logos befitting a feature film. Both "Tales From the Ashes," as one ABC "Nightline" installment was titled, and CNN's continuous coverage, which settled for the simple but elegant "California Fires," used a "Gone With the Wind" image, minus Scarlett and Rhett: silhouettes of firefighters set against red-orange flames. CNN topped ABC in cinematic frills by adding ominous theme music reminiscent of its similarly packaged coverage of the Persian Gulf war.
More gripping still, the leap of the fire from Laguna Beach to the sexy show-biz enclave of Malibu lent the drama a cast of fading names who might actually star in a fictional disaster movie. Ali MacGraw, Mark Hamill, Charles Bronson and Rod Steiger all lived in homes in the threatened neighborhood, prompting some of them to put in cameo appearances on camera. The only archetypal disaster-movie character missing was the Feisty Little Old Lady. If only Miss Helen Hayes were alive and well in Malibu, defying police lines to dash into a smoking beach house to save a rag doll for some latter-day Linda Blair.
THE MALIBU SETTING ALSO stoked the competitive fires at NBC's "Today" show, which sent its co-anchor, Bryant Gumbel, to California. The ensuing theatrics should win "Today" a dramatic Emmy, especially given the considerable handicap that had to be overcome: by the time Gumbel arrived on Thursday, Nov. 4, the fire was rapidly being contained and fresh pyrotechnics were at a premium.
Undeterred, "Today" packed the whole epic into that one morning's show, giving it a shrewdly paced beginning, middle and end as adeptly as any screenwriter might. As "Today" opened at 7 A.M. (4 A.M. in California), Gumbel spoke from a perch on Malibu's darkened Pacific Coast Highway, which he described with a touch of martyrdom as "hopefully a safe haven for our special edition of 'Today.' " Heaven knows we had reasons to fear for our brave correspondent. "The battle is far from over," Gumbel intoned. Malibu was "a deadly inferno" and "the tape we've been seeing from back in New York doesn't do it justice."
Soon Gumbel was coaxing tales of horror from a couple who had lost everything in the blaze. While the interviewees were stubbornly chipper -- they could hardly wait to collect the insurance money and move to Australia -- Gumbel kept to the tragic script. "Maybe in time he'll forget this," the anchor said mournfully of the couple's toddler as the segment ended. Never mind that the playful child seemed more annoyed by the television camera than the fire.
After an intermission, "Today" efficiently advanced the story from its tragic opening to its more hopeful second act: the show's news reader, who had announced that the fire was 40 percent contained at 7:30, abruptly raised the figure to 60 percent at 8:00.
At that point, "Today" briefly fanned the dying embers by rerunning California flames as a poetically stylized logo and by bestowing major prominence to the news report of a very photogenic, if less than catastrophic, dormitory fire in the obscure hamlet of Cleveland, Tenn. Back in California, heroic firefighters, suddenly with time on their hands, trooped on to tell their war stories. An economics reporter described the disaster's "silver lining" (lots of work for contractors) and announced, after inspecting one household's fire-gutted Steinway, that "the music will return." And, in a sentimental piece de resistance for the final fadeout, Gumbel revealed that his earlier interview with the homeless couple had stirred "the emotions and hearts of some of our viewers" so much that they had phoned in offers of aid.
Thus had the fire been turned into an entertainment with a full dramatic arc -- from deadly inferno to paradise reborn -- in a lean two hours. Could Darryl Zanuck have done it any better?
"We'll see you from Malibu tomorrow morning as well," said Katie Couric in New York to her co-anchor as "Today" faded out. But when "Today" reappeared the next morning, Couric announced that "Bryant's off today." Clearly the contained fire, no longer a major entertainment, ceased to require a star's presence. No matter that an equally newsworthy but less telegenic story -- the search for arsonists -- had risen from the ashes.
PERHAPS THERE WILL BE AN instant docudrama about the California fires -- "Beach Blanket Inferno"? -- with Victoria Principal as Ali MacGraw and William Shatner as Charles Bronson. That would be in the tradition of recent quickie network movies like "Triumph Over Disaster: The Hurricane Andrew Story" and "Without Warning: Terror in the Tower." It is not only trash television that blurs the line between news and entertainment anymore. Almost everybody does it, squeezing every last drop of blood out of every last disaster, war and crime.
Such infotainment is as ubiquitous and, finally, as numbing as the parade of wares on QVC. If Janet Reno is really curious about how television desensitizes young and old alike to the dangers of playing with matches and guns, she might start by looking at television's protracted, prurient coverage of events like the firestorm at Waco (which she co-produced). At least "Beavis and Butt-Head," a cartoon, does not pretend to be reality. Next to the pyrophilic news spectaculars surrounding it, its jokey efforts to stimulate a viewer's imagination almost start to look like art.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FRAME-BY-FRAME MEDIA SERVICES INC (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FIRES AND FIREMEN; TELEVISION TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (88%); FILM (86%); SUBURBS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DESERT STORM (77%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (76%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (69%); HALLOWEEN (68%); EYEWITNESSES (66%); NATURAL DISASTERS (64%); 

PERSON: RICH, FRANK FRANK RICH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



742 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 2; Page 36; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: RECORDINGS VIEW;
Wizardry on the Keyboard

BYLINE: By MILO MILES; Milo Miles is a commentator on world music for National Public Radio.

 BODY:
MUSICAL LEGENDS are thick on the ground in New Orleans, and the inflation of reputations by fans is always a danger. The pianist James Booker, who was plagued by alcohol and drug addiction and neurosis and died in 1983 at the age of 43, seemed like a victim of this: until now, he always sounded a shade more stellar in anecdote than on records.
But those who saw him in concert claimed that he took more chances on the keyboard than other New Orleans wizards. Now the full Booker prowess can finally be heard on two complementary collections, "Resurrection of the Bayou Maharajah" (Rounder 2118; CD and cassette), which features vocals, and the all-instrumental "Spiders on the Keys" (Rounder 2119; CD and cassette). 
 The selections were culled from 60 hours of music performed by Booker, using only an upright piano, in his element at the Maple Leaf Bar in New Orleans. Here he felt comfortable enough, on occasion, to divert patrons with nothing more than an evening of jive talk and false starts on the keys. The standout numbers on these releases toss off barbs of wit and anguish that strike with casual precision.
When Booker sat down to play seriously, his performances touched on the styles of a wide group of jazz, rhythm-and-blues and classical musicians. The abrupt block chords and barrelhouse stomps produced by his left hand reinvigorate the rock syncopation of "Eleanor Rigby" on the "Spiders" album even as Booker's right hand strengthens the song's string-quartet echoes.
Throughout, Booker shows flair for revisiting the 60's. Creeping along, "A Taste of Honey" becomes a contemplation of vast ruins, followed by a defiantly jaunty rendition of "He's Got the Whole World in His Hands." The impeccable stride piano instrumental of "Papa Was a Rascal" is as characteristic of Booker as the sprawling vocal version of the same song on "Resurrection." In this treatment, he spins a wild tale of miscegenation and international paranoia. He builds passages between melodic phrases with scampering keyboard runs that complement his zany lyric flights.
Booker's voice is anemic at times, and while he can command an ardent falsetto, he knows it is no match for his left hand, which takes over near the end of "Resurrection."
The piano showpiece that results is a breakneck medley that goes back and forth between "Wine-Spo-Dee-O-Dee" and "It Should Have Been Me." Booker tops that feat with a ragtime "Pop's Dilemma" that saunters through three tempo changes before sliding into "Good Night Irene," done with a deft bayou bounce. Doubters need no more proof than these collections that James Booker was made for a city where music grows in bouquets.

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Booker -- Barbs of wit that strike with casual precision. (Michael P. Smith/Rounder Records)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; RECORDINGS (AUDIO); REVIEWS KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC REVIEWS (79%); RECORD INDUSTRY (76%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (72%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (71%); 

PERSON: MILES, MILO; BOOKER, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



743 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 5; Page 12; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1763 words

HEADLINE: Where Man Meets Beast, A Conflict

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE; JAMES BROOKE is head of the Rio de Janeiro bureau of The Times.

 BODY:
BARE feet crunching on the coral sand of Espanola Island, a tour group recently savored the Galapagos experience -- walking within inches of wild sea lions snoozing peacefully in the equatorial sun. For one sunny moment on that morning in September on Gardner Beach, man and beast seemed to be reconciled. Then, a young sea lion emerged dripping from the Pacific Ocean surf. Around his neck was a white plastic bag.
"A little world within itself" was how Charles Darwin described the rare laboratory of biological evolution that is the Galapagos, an archipelago of 19 islands 600 miles west of South America. 
 But ever since a Spanish bishop strayed into these waters in 1535, the Galapagos have suffered successive onslaughts at the hand of man. First English pirates and then American whalers butchered hundreds of thousands of giant tortoises. Later, California sealers abused the trusting nature of Galapagos seals and nearly exterminated the species. In the last century Ecuadorean fishermen and prison convicts started introducing wild herds of goats and pigs to guarantee fresh meat in these desolate outcroppings of volcanic rock.
Today, with 97 percent of the archipelago off limits for colonization, man's modern intrusion is tourism.
Starting with an occasional Lindblad cruise in the late 1960's, Galapagos tourism has increased nearly tenfold since 1970. From 4,579 visitors in that year, the number rose to 17,840 in 1985 and then reached its current level of 41,000 in 1991. Fueling the boom, the number of tour boats soared from 10 in 1980 to 90 today. On land, the number of Galapagos hotels has doubled since 1980 and now numbers 35. The resident population has quadrupled since the early 1960's, to about 14,000 people.
To block further tourism growth, Ecuador's Government moved in July to close the archipelago indefinitely to large visiting boats, those that carry more than 90 passengers. Environmentalists fear that ships arriving from outside will bring flora and fauna alien to the islands.
And last year the Government stopped issuing permits for new tour boats anchored in the islands. Today 90 boats cruise the islands, offering 1,400 berths.
"Supposedly, the issuance of new permits is frozen," said Pedro Proano, marketing vice president for Metropolitan Touring, which operates three boats in the archipelago. "But new boats keep arriving."
In the light of human history on the islands, however, some say that today's intrusion by tourists is benign.
"All told, the adverse impacts of tourism are probably minuscule compared to the ecological imbalances that are the lasting legacy of past human incursions," Douglas Southgate and Morris Whitaker contend in "Economic Progress and the Environment," a book to be published early next year by Oxford University Press.
A different point of view is expressed by Chantal Blanton, an American ecologist who directs the Charles Darwin Research Station at Puerto Ayora, the archipelago's busiest port. Tour boats "empty their sewage tanks wherever they please," said Ms. Blanton, whose research station borders the Galapagos National Park. "More and more, our beach is littered with plastic oil containers and one-liter Coke bottles."
The research station has conducted autopsies on sea turtles only to discover that they died from swallowing plastic, a material that blocks their digestive tracts. Sea lions have cut their sensitive muzzles playing with tin cans that have fallen to the ocean floor.
Ever vigilant against transferring endemic species from island to island in the 20,000-square-mile marine area, ecologists fear that the bright lights of tourist boats attract insects off islands at night, only to deposit them the next morning at other islands. "The big tour boats are lit up at night like floating cities," complained Ms. Blanton.
Scientists also say they are largely in the dark about the impact of hundreds of tourists walking annually along park paths that pass through the nesting areas of such birds as the blue-footed booby, the flightless cormorant and the waved albatross.
In 1975 Orlando Romero, a tour guide, marked trails on North Seymour Island around frigate bird nesting sites. "Today very few frigate birds nest there, possibly because they are permanently bothered by visitors," Mr. Romero wrote recently for La Garua, an island bulletin. To disperse the tourist impact, park officials have gradually increased the number of permitted visiting sites in the Galapagos to 48.
Faced with these and other threats, Galapagos environmentalists are constantly battling to mesh tourism with the islands' fragile ecosystem.
In the largest project seen here in years, the Spanish Government is starting a three-year, $5 million program to improve environmental awareness among visitors and residents. Starting next year, construction will begin on three visitor reception centers -- one for each island with an airstrip.
"The idea is that every tourist will go directly from the airplane to the center," said Antonio Morales Mengual, coordinator of Spanish aid in Ecuador. The center will teach visitors how to enjoy the archipelago's wilderness without harming it.
In addition, the Spanish money will pay for improvements in the training of park guides and for environmental education of residents. Many residents have only a dim awareness of the archipelago's volcanic origins and rare diversity of flora and fauna.
"Most people only know the town, and maybe the farms, if they have one," said Jorge Sotomayor, an environmental educator in Puerto Baquerizo, the islands' administrative capital. "My wife was born here and grew up here. But she had never been out of town until she married me."
The Spanish aid comes at a time when Ecuador's Government shows signs of reversing a decline in conservation support.
Currently, the national park service is running at half of programmed staff levels. Over the last decade the Government's share of the Darwin Foundation's budget has dropped precipitously, from 60 percent to 5 percent. Short of money, the foundation cut its staff in March by one third, to 40.
"Tourism has not paid its way," charged Douglas Southgate, an American environmental economist who advises Ecuador's Government on the issue. "The Ecuadoreans have been selling a resource at a pittance."
According to Mr. Southgate's calculations, each of the two largest cruise ships operating in the Galapagos nets about $4 million every year. Almost half of that is profit, he says. Mr. Proano, the tour operator, dismissed these profit estimates as "completely out of touch with reality." He said that Metropolitan Touring's profit margin is around 3 percent.
But for a license to operate in the Galapagos, a big boat has been paying no more than $1,000 a year. To raise more revenue, the Government increased the annual boat tax this year from $10 a berth to $200. For the largest boats this would mean an increase in its tax from $1,000 to $20,000.
WITH Ecuadoreans now accounting for half of the 40,000 annual visitors to the islands, authorities realized this year that national tourists were grossly undertaxed.
Foreigners and Ecuadoreans are separated into two lines at Galapagos airports; foreigners pay $80 a person for admission. Until early this year, Ecuadoreans paid 40 cents. Today they pay $6.
Only 5 percent of the 400,000 foreigners who visited Ecuador last year visited the archipelago, underscoring the Galapagos' image as an elite tourist destination. Park officials vow to keep it that way.
"We don't want to develop mass tourism in the Galapagos," Jorge Barba Gonzalez, executive director of the Ecuadorean Institute of Forests, Natural Areas and Wildlife, said in an interview in Quito, the capital. "We can't put hotels everywhere. We don't want to compete with the Caribbean."
To keep tourism at its current level, the Government can refuse permission for airlines to fly to the Galapagos, refuse permission for additional tour boats to operate in the Galapagos and refuse permission for the construction of major hotels. In 1990 officials revoked permission for the building of a 200-room luxury hotel in Puerto Baquerizo.
Environmentalists foresee an unending battle between forces of preservation and development on an archipelago once known to sailors as "The Enchanted Islands."
"There are powerful pressures to bring the big cruise ships back in," said Roberto Troya Villacorta, director of Fundacion Natura, a leading environmental group. "It seems that we will never stop being firemen for the Galapagos."
 
 
 
DOS AND DON'TS
 Because each island in the Galapagos has a unique ecology -- often with endemic species of plants, birds, animals and insects -- visitors should take special care when touring the archipelago. Rules go beyond standard national park "don'ts" -- Don't Litter, Don't Camp and Don't Smoke.
To prevent transporting seeds, spores and insects from one island to another, don't carry food to uninhabited islands. And check clothing and shoe soles for biological hitchhikers.
To avoid disrupting the natural social structure of the animals, don't feed, touch or handle the wildlife you encounter.
Many trails weave through nesting colonies of sea birds, such as boobies, cormorants, gulls and frigate birds. Don't drive birds from their nests. If startled, a bird may fly from a nest, leaving an egg or chick exposed to the sun. A newly hatched booby chick will die within 30 minutes if exposed to the equatorial sun.
When visiting towns on the islands, don't buy souvenirs made from Galapagos plants or animals, with the exception of wood. To supply the souvenir trade, local divers have devastated black coral formations around the archipelago.
Only certified guides are allowed to lead visitors into the Galapagos National Park, which covers 97 percent of the archipelago's land mass. In the park, there are only 48 approved visiting sites. But captains of small boats chartered locally for short trips sometimes try to evade these rules. Insist on a guide who has been trained and certified by the park service. Not only will this encourage respect for conservationist practices, but a park-trained guide will inevitably be more informative than a local freelancer.
 
Books to Read
 The following provide a good introduction to the ecology and history of the islands:
"Ecuador and the Galapagos Islands," by Rob Rachowiecki (Lonely Planet Publications).
"Galapagos Guide," by Alan White and Bruce Epler (Imprenta Mariscal, Quito,
Ecuador).

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Galapagos hawk alights on a photographer's tripod. (Ginette Vachon/Stock Shop); The tourist boom has brought thousands of people to the islands. Here two visitors approach land iguanas. (Len Kaufman); Getting a close-up look at a Galapagos sea lion on James Island. (Galen Rowell/Mountain Light Photography)
 
Map of the Galapagos Islands.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%); 

COUNTRY: ECUADOR (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GALAPAGOS ISLANDS ECUADOR (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL; ENVIRONMENT MARINE MAMMALS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); WILDLIFE (78%); BIOLOGY (75%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (73%); TOURISM (72%); ANIMALS (72%); EVOLUTION THEORY (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (62%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (62%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



744 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 2590 words

HEADLINE: Guardians at the Gate Unbowed by Time

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER

 BODY:
DOORMEN don't kiss, and they certainly don't tell on tenants. That is a principle of the job advocated by some of New York City's most experienced dooormen, who were interviewed at the post during this pre-Christmas season as they took packages, hailed cabs, dispensed information, directed repairmen, questioned deliverymen, remarked on the weather, and held doors.
"I know the habits of all the tenants in the building," said Rudy Martoni, as well he might after 22 years at the entrance to 174 East 74th Street, at Third Avenue. He would disclose none of them. 
 But there are other requirements for success, say the amiable individuals who have spent their careers at or near the doors of residential buildings. They chat happily on the subject once assured that management won't mind. Doormen (and presumably the sprinkling of doorwomen as well) are dutiful.
"Treat everybody the same," advises Eddie Steakin, 62, who has been doing so for 38 years at 1088 Park Avenue, at 88th Street.
"You have to like people -- that's Number One right off the bat," says Ronald Berk, 54. He has been on the job for 12 years at 110-20 71st Avenue in Forest Hills, Queens.
"I'm trusted," says Pat Guerin, a fixture at the door of 120 East 81st Street for 23 years, citing not only a prerequisite of success in the job but also one of the sources of his satisfaction. "I know all the people. I'm like family here."
If doormen had been asked years ago to discourse on the requisites of the job, they would no doubt have made the same points. With the exception that security systems have grown more elaborate and doormen have grown more conscious of their crime-prevention responsibilities, the job requirements don't seem to have changed much.
That is a lucky thing for management. Building maintenance is a strongly unionpoints. With the exception that security systems have grown more elaborate and doormen have grown more conscious of their crime-prevention responsibilities, the job requirements don't seem to have changed much.
That is a lucky thing for management. Building maintenance is a strongly unionized field that is not about to be replaced by a competitive technology. (Not entirely, placed many elevator operators.)
It is also a field undergoing ethnic transition. Older doormen, say several of the managing agents who employ them, tend to be of Irish descent. They came into the business 20 or 30 years ago as younger friends and acquaintances of the Irish men who were then prominent in the construction trades and in building management.
NOW many younger doormen tend to be Hispanic, though other groups are also represented, including whites. They don't need advanced education for the starting jobs -- porters and hallmen, probably, with fill-in stints on the door -- and they work their way up. Some day they may become handymen, or concierges or building superintendents. Other doormen look on the job as transitional, a way to earn money while they seek work in other fields.
"It's a good job for young people, but I don't think they like to do it," said Jose Ruiz, 51, one of the doormen at 66-36 Yellowstone Boulevard, in Forest Hills, Queens, who has been at the job since 1975. "This is like a prison for them."
But not for him. He says he's never bored and he appreciates the security and benefits the job provides.
He is also content, like many colleagues, to live by the book -- or rather, the books, because there are two. One is a pocket-sized paperbound blue volume called the Resident Managers and Superintendents Agreement, for superintendents and resident managers in larger buildings. The other is a little yellow volume, the Apartment Building Agreement, covering all other workers, plus the superintendents of smaller buildings.
The agreements are negotiated every three years by Local 32B-32J of the Service Employees International Union and building owners, represented by the Realty Advisory Board on Labor Relations. A separate local, 32E, represents workers in the Bronx and negotiates with a different management group there. The issues in the current negotiations are wages and benefits, as they invariably are. Work rules tend to change little.
IN the building-services contract, seniority does not bring higher pay. A man working as a doorman for 30 years has the same base pay as a man newly hired for the job. Typically, only ambition -- to become a superintendent, for example, or a concierge -- leads to differentiation in base pay between older and younger men performing the same tasks.
Tipping adds an indefinite amount to income, and individual buildings can reward merit in various ways and do -- with bonuses, higher base wages or time off.
Under the 1991 contract, doormen earn $518.17 a week. That comes to $27,981 a year (including employer payments for sick days, 10 of them under the contract). It matters not how many days or few the worker has been on the door, or what his specific duties are. They usually vary with the size of the building. In smaller buildings the doorman may operate as a concierge.
True, the contract guarantees 52 weeks of work. There can be no temporary layoffs, and part-time workers are rare. The contract is also generous on hospital and sick-day benefits. It provides for employer payments to a pension fund, an annuity fund, a training fund and a legal fund for legal services exclusive of landlord-tenant cases. Employers say that the real cost of a doorman to them is about $42,000 to $45,000 a year.
Actually, "doorman" is not a classification under the Apartment Buiilding Agreement. There are only two classifications: handymen and "other." Handymen ("handypersons" in the contract) earn $50 more a week than the "others."
The doorman is an other. Other others are porters, hallmen, concierges and elevator operators. But the contract studiously avoids job descriptions, which would deprive management of flexibility in utilizing personnel.
So far the "man" suffix has not been endangered by the arrival of many women at the job, but there are a few. One of them is Hilda Mendoza, who handles the duty four shifts a week at 257 Central Park West, at 86th Street. On the fifth day she is a porter.
Her first 30 days on the job, five years ago, were the hardest, because that is the probation period. "I could have gotten fired," she said. But she wasn't, and now she has been accepted by employees and tenants, and above all, by children.
"It's great when the kids come down in the morning and say, 'Good morning, Hilda,' ' ' she said. "That's my kick. And the benefits are great."
Using the language of a negotiator for employers (which he is), James F. Berg, executive vice president of the Realty Advisory Board, observed that it takes 4.2 people to man a door 24 hours a day seven days a week. That's because there have to be three shifts a day, or 21 shifts a week. Four workers can cover 20 shifts in a week, working eight hours a day for five days. That level of manning costs the building $175,000 a year in wages and benefits.
Often there is a fulltime porter as well as a fulltime doorman. Some buildings may economize by combining the two tasks during night shifts or on weekends.
Management usually finds ways to reward long-time employees, says Mr. Berg, possibly with extra time off or bonuses. But practices vary widely. "One building might give a week's pay; another might give 10 weeks' pay," he said. "And another might say they're getting enough from tenants so we don't need to give them anything."
What doormen and other employees get from tenants as a Christmas gift also varies. Many tenants want no part of a uniform buildingwide policy, jealously guarding their prerogative to reward as they please. Doormen themselves are reticent. However, if a doorman were to get an average of $20 an apartment in a 200-unit building, he would take in $4,000 in Christmas tips, over 10 percent of his base pay.
But some co-ops and condominiums set up a buildingwide fund and a distribution system. Contributions are voluntary. One 300-unit co-op in Greenwich Village, with a staff of 25, suggests that each shareholder pay in $65 an apartment plus 20 cents a share to a single fund. That works out to about $145 for a two-bedroom apartment.
The co-op distributes the money by seniority. A doorman with 26 years of experience would get $2,400. The newest employee gets $296.
AT a 200-unit co-op on the Upper East Side the assessment is based on apartment type -- $105 for a studio; $165 for a one-bedroom, and $215 for a two-bedroom. Distribution to the staff of 14 is based on seniority. The highest bonus is $2,000; the lowest is $1,350.
A 500-unit East Side condominium tries to collect a flat $100 an apartment, or $50,000, to distribute among 28 employees, including four doormen. But since it is a fairly new building and the longest seniority is seven years, individual employees don't do as well as they do in older co-ops.
All three of these buildings are managed by Kreisel Company, which operates 175 co-ops and condominiums with 37,000 apartments, and has 2,500 employees. James O'Connor, Kreisel's director of management, estimated that about 85 percent of tenant-owners contribute to the buildingwide fund, but many of these also make individual contributions to employees who have given them special service during the year.
"Most buildings just send around a list of employees with their tenure," he said.
When that happens, money probably flows to the doorman of long standing more freely than to most other employees, with the exception of the superintendent and the concierge. Certainly Pierre Verlaet, the concierge at the new condominium at 160 West 66th Street, which is known also as 3 Lincoln Center, believes the opportunities are splendid for a doorman to ingratiate himself with tenants, and that converts to more generous gifts.
"A good doorman makes the best of a few seconds through the ego," he says. "It only takes that long to say a flattering thing, like 'You look gorgeous!' You create a relationship over 365 days."
The rewards shrivel in comparison with those a skillful hotel doorman can expect, however. With the right shift the hotel doorman can pull in as much as $100 a day, says Mr. Verlaet.
In any event, it is not tips or even the pay that keep Eddie Steakin on the job at 1088 Park Avenue. At 62, he works from 7 A.M. to 3 P.M. Monday through Friday. Every morning he delivers the mail directly to the door of half the 90 tenants; the hallman handles the other half. It takes him two hours.
A dignified man in a handsome blue uniform, he is expert at one of his major early-morning tasks, hailing taxis speeding south on Park Avenue for residents headed for work. After that he delivers the mail directly to the doors of half the 90 tenants. The hallman handles the other half. The sorting and delivering job takes two hours.
"When I came here in the 50's Frank Harris was the doorman," Mr. Steakin said. "I walked off the street looking for a job and the super needed somebody for a couple of weeks. I wound up staying. Frank told me, 'Just keep smilin' whether you like 'em or you don't." '
Mr. Steakin is still smiling.
Nor is it tips that have kept Robert Hughes on the go for 22 years at 157 East 72d Street. He began as a porter and then worked the service elevator for 14 years. He has been "in the front" for seven years. The 140-unit condominium has a staff of 12, including the superintendent.
A graduate of Alexander Hamilton High School in Brooklyn, Mr. Hughes came down with pneumonia while he was working in the freezer room of the Fulton Fish Market years ago. A change in career was called for, and a friend working in the East 72d Street building got him a job there.
"I thought I was coming here for six months," he said. "I was going to get something else." Instead, he stayed.
"You get to be very friendly with people," Mr. Hughes said. "I know some people here all their lives, since they were 2-year-olds in diapers. I know everybody by name."
Too much standing is not a problem for him in the job. "We've got a stool," he noted.
Memories of job insecurity have helped many men of middle age to stay on the job. Almost to a man, doormen in their late 50's and 60's tell tales of job losses by themelves or young men they knew in the period when the economic boom that followed World War II was subsiding.
But the longer they stay, somehow, the more they seem to rely on the job for personal satisfaction.
"If you take this job away from me, you take away my whole life," said Dominick Franklin, a gracious 65-year-old from Deer Park, L.I., who mans the door at the elliptically shaped silver-glass rental building owned by the Solow Organization at 265 East 66th Street, at Third Avenue. "I love it."
He has been there only since 1979, when the building opened, but he was at 936 Fifth Avenue for 15 years before that. He is on his feet from 10 A.M. to 3 P.M. five days a week, except for a half hour for lunch, and is an indefatigable dispenser of pleasantries to arriving or departing tenants. The building has 300 tenants, and in his pocket Mr. Franklin carries a list of their names.
Longterm tenants might tip $50 or $75 at Christmas time, Mr. Franklin says, but over-all tipping has declined in the last seven or eight years. "There used to be bigger tips because there was less transience," he said. Mr. Franklin and his wife have four grown children, including a daughter who is a lawyer and a son who is a physician. Both won scholarships to college.
Because of the size of the building and its staff, and the degree of activity at the door, Mr. Franklin's tasks are more limited than Rudy Martoni's at 174 East 74th Street. In that 120-unit co-op he doubles as concierge. He also keep an eye on a television screen that displays the action at the service entrance on Third Avenue. He screens out the suspicious while allowing in the authorized, a task that sounds simple and often is, but riles tenants quickly when there is an error.
"There are so many misunderstandings I blank them out," said Mr. Martoni. "It's ridiculous -- so petty."
THE experienced doorman takes no chances on security nowadays, so petty misunderstandings, when legitimate visitors are delayed, are to be expected. Burton Wallack, president of Wallack Management Company on East 64th Street, which manages 63 buildings in Manhattan, told of a trick that intruders were trying on Manhattan doormen last summer. Two or three well-dress men would surround the doorman to distract his attention while one tried to slip inside.
"We sent memos around," Mr. Wallack said. His doormen weren't fooled.
Mr. Wallack estimated that 25 to 30 percent of Manhattan doormen over the age of 50 are of Irish descent. "But right now it's a regular United Nations," he said.
Wallack itself took on 50 people last summer as porters or doormen. Many were of Hispanic or Yugoslav extraction. "Filipinos are beginning to come into the field," he said.
Occasionally, long-experienced doormen who are doubling on the concierge task in smaller buildings express dissatisfaction that the contract is so structured that they make no more money than a starting doorman. But most who have held on for years emphasize security and job satisfaction as their reasons for carrying on.
"I could retire anytime," said Mr. Steakin, at 1088 Park Avenue, who lives at 93d Street and York Avenue and walks to and from work every day. "But what would I do?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Eddie Steakin, top, has been at 1088 Park Avenue for 38 years; Jose Ruiz, right, at door of 66-36 Yellowstone Boulevard, Forest Hills, Queens. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NUMBER ONE GRAPHICS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; DOORMEN; BUILDING SERVICE EMPLOYEES; LABOR; CONTRACTS MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (89%); JOB DESCRIPTIONS (89%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (78%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); CRIME PREVENTION (62%); CHRISTMAS (57%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



745 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: After a Decade of Decline, Homeownership Is Rising

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO

 BODY:
REVERSING a decade-long decline, homeownership rates, a key indicator of the nation's economic health, have been rising modestly over the last year, according to the National Association of Home Builders.
Housing analysts attribute the increase to the decline of mortgage rates, which have fallen to 25-year lows, and to home prices, which are not rising as much as they did in the 80's in most parts of the country. They note, though, that homeownership rates, especially among people under 35, remain lower than in the early 1980's, evidence of unaffordable prices, stagnating wages, job insecurity and changing demographic trends. 
 The homeownership data track the percentage of housing units across the country whose occupants include the owner. Statistics are collected by the Census Bureau every 10 years and updated every three months through sample surveys of about 47,000 households nationally. The bureau's statistics are then bought by various organizations, including the NationalAssociation of Home Builders, which analyzes the data in semi-annual reports.
Gopal Ahluwalia, director of research for the National Association of Home Builders in Washington, said the recent trend upwards for homeownership was a sign that the econony remained weak but was improving.
"Economic growth is still at a sub-par level," he said.
Though they are not as publicized as much as short-term data like housing starts and sales, homeownership rates, many housing analysts believe, are important measures of the nation's overall economic health.
"If homeownership rates are declining it means we have a problem with affordability," Mr. Ahluwalia said. "If the percentage of people who live in their own homes is on the rise that obviously means our standard of living is going up."
As of June 30, the national homeownership rate was 64.4 percent, up from 63.9 percent a year earlier but down from 64.9 percent at the end of the second quarter in 1982 and 65.5 in the second quarter of 1980. There were 97.2 million households in the nation as of June 30th compared with 83.7 million at the end of 1982.
"If 1980 homeownership rates had maintained themselves, there would have been two million more homeowners by 1990," said William C. Apgar, the executive director of the Joint Center of Housing Studies of Harvard University.
Homeownership rates are rising the least among younger adults, those under 35. For that group the rate was 37.8 percent as of June 30, up from 37.6 percent in 1992 but down from 41.2 percent in 1982.
SOME housing anaysts believe the rates depict a growing division in homeownership between young and old.
"The gap in homeownership rates between young and old has widened, and there is nothing to suggest that it is going to diminish," said Peter A. Morrison, a demographer who has studied housing issues at the Rand Corporation, a research institute in Santa Monica, Calif.
Regionally, the Northeast was the only section where the homeownership rate rose in the 80's and early 90's; it grew to 62.5 percent in 1992 from 61.1 in 1982, but was still lower than in the South and the Midwest.
Mr. Ahluwalia said the rate had increased in the Northeast because nonhomeowners tend to be newcomers to an area and the Northeast has seen little inmigration in the last decade.
"The younger population, the ones most likely to be renters, are moving to other areas of the country, like the South and the West," he said. "So those areas are seeing a decrease in their homeownership rates."
Several factors influence homeownership rates.
"It's affordability," said David W. Berson, vice president and chief economist Fannie Mae -- the Federal National Mortgage Association -- a quasi-governmental agency that buys mortgages on the secondary market. "Buying a home hasn't been this affordable since the early 60's."
Mr. Berson also cited programs aimed at first-time buyers in their 20's and early 30's, low-income renters and minorities. The percentage of mortgages taken out by first-time home-buyers is currently at its highest level since 1979, he said.
"There have been increasing efforts to reach households that have been under-represented in the homeownership market," he said.
"WHAT we have been seeing in the last few years are the fruits of those efforts."
The rise in homeownership rates, which had been climbing steadily until the decline from 1980 to 1990, is projected to continue throughout the 90's, possibly to record levels by the year 2000. Economists cite not only increased affordability but also the aging of the baby boomers. Homeownership rates are highest among those 50 and older.
Some also believe that there is a pent-up demand among those in their 30's and 40's who have been priced or frightened out of the market and that this demand will be unleashed by an improving economy and lower interest rates.
"The percentage will continue to go up -- but slowly," Mr. Ahluwalia said. "We expect it to go up by the end of the decade to 67 or 68 percent and some people say maybe even 70 percent."
Demographers have attributed the decline in homeownership in the 80's and early 90's partly to the fact that Americans under 35 are more mobile and increasingly leaving home later, marrying later and forming smaller, less child-oriented households, all of which makes home-buying less imperative.
Economists, meanwhile, cite the run-up of home prices, sparked first by a period of high inflation in the 1970's and then, in the 1980's, by a surge in demand from an unprecedented number of Americans, the baby boomers.
The rise in home prices has made it hard for many younger Americans to afford a home. Saving enough for a down payment and closing costs is particularly difficult.
The fall in interest rates has helped make a home more affordable, as have the smaller rates of appreciation -- or in some places, the depreciation -- in home prices. Wages, however, have not caught up with the increases in housing prices of the 70's and 80's.
FURTHER, many lenders have increased downpayment requirements to 20 percent and tightened qualifying standards for mortgages. They no longer make no- or low-down-payment loans or no-income-verification loans and they are more conservative about how much money they will lend for a home.
Even for those younger people who have the funds and the financing and have found homes they can afford, the legacy of falling prices in the late 80's and early 90's, combined with the wave of corporate layoffs, has made increased wariness about buying.
Some fear that they will lose their jobs and not be able to afford their mortgage payments, or that they will have to relocate and won't be able to sell their homes or rent them for enough to cover their carrying costs.
Some also are unwilling to buy houses or live in neighborhoods that do not meet their expectations. Others believe that putting their down payments and the difference between a mortgage payment and rent into mutual funds or in tax-deferred I.R.A.'s and 401k plans is a better investment than a house whose value is appreciating slowly, if at all.
Indeed, some housing analysts believe that the popularity of these programs, along with the larger estates that many younger generations now stand to inherit, will make home equity a less important component of a retirement portfolio.
"It won't be the big retirement thing that it has been," said William A. Downs, a housing statistician with the Census Bureau.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The Changing Rate of Homeownership in the U.S." shows total U.S. housholds from 1982 to 1993, percentage of housholds occupied by a homeowner from 1982 to 1993 and U.S. homeownership rates by age. (Source: National Association of Home Builders)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%); US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; MORTGAGES; PRICES; WAGES AND SALARIES; LABOR HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); TRENDS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (74%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); CENSUS (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); 

PERSON: RAVO, NICK

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



746 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 10; Page 10; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: Residential Resales

 BODY:
In the following reports, the "listed at" price is the asking price when negotiations began that ended in the sale. Time on market is from most recent listing to contract.
 
 MANHATTAN
 
 CHELSEA $345,000
 465 West 23d Street
 (London Terrace)
 1-bedroom, 1-bath, 1,000-sq.-ft. prewar co-op; 24-hr. doorman, 500-sq.-ft. terrace, pool, 2 exposures; maintenance $1,158, 55% tax-deductible, listed at $365,000, 32 weeks on market (Brokers: Halstead Property Co.; Debra Kameros & Co.) 

 EAST MIDTOWN $435,000
 870 U.N. Plaza
 2-bedroom, 2-bath, 1,650-sq.-ft. postwar co-op; 24-hr. doorman, concierge, manned elevator, 2 exposures, East River view; maintenance $1,600, 51% tax-deductible, listed at $525,000, 24 weeks on market (Broker: Ambrose Mar-Elia)
 
 GREENWICH VILLAGE $605,000
 42 West Ninth Street
 (Portsmouth)
 2-bedroom, 2-bath, 1,600-sq.-ft. prewar co-op; manned elevator, dining room, den, 2 fireplaces, 3 exposures; maintenance $1,235, 30% tax-deductible, listed at $650,000, 56 weeks on market (Broker: Bellmarc Realty)
 
 UPPER EAST SIDE $825,000
 955 Fifth Avenue (76th St.)
 1-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, 1,600-sq.-ft. prewar co-op; 24-hr. doorman, manned elevator, dining room, 2 exposures, Central Park view; maintenance $2,512, 43% tax-deductible, listed at $895,000, 12 weeks on market (Broker: Corcoran Group)
 
 BRONX
 
 BAYCHESTER $240,000
 1406 East 222d Street
 2-family, 25-year-old, semi-attached brick house; 3 bedrooms in primary unit; 2 bedrooms in other; 1 bath, dining area in each, finished basement, 1-car garage; taxes $2,000, listed at $260,000, 6 weeks on market (Broker: Highland Realty)
 
 WAKEFIELD $163,000
 4229 Gunther Avenue
 3-bedroom, 1-bath, 40-year-old, detached wood-frame house; dining room, eat-in kitchen, sun porch, 1-car garage; taxes $1,200, listed at $165,000, 20 weeks on market (Broker: Marland Real Estate)
 
 BROOKLYN
 
 DITMAS PARK $234,000
 443 Marlboro Road
 7-bedroom, 2-bath, 90-year-old Victorian; dining room, family room, fireplace, eat-in kitchen, 12 stained-glass windows, 2-car garage; taxes $1,600, listed at $249,000, 1 year on market (Broker: J. Shawovitz Real Estate Corp)
 
 MIDWOOD $256,000
 1184 East 23d Street
 4-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath, 70-year-old colonial; dining room, dinette, 1-car garage; taxes $2,224, listed at $289,000, 6 weeks on market (Broker: Wilk Real Estate)
 
PARK SLOPE $758,000
 788 Carroll Street
 2-family, 4-story brownstone; 5 bedrooms, 2 baths, dining room, 4 fireplaces in primary triplex; 1 bedroom, 1 bath, eat-in kitchen in simplex; original moldings and detail in each; taxes $2,768, listed at $850,000, 32 weeks on market (Broker: Brooklyn Properties of 7th Avenue)
 
 QUEENS
 
 EAST ELMHURST $120,000
 31-36 Buell Street
 4-bedroom, 2-bath, 65-year-old colonial; dining room, eat-in kitchen, enclosed front porch, 1-car garage; taxes $1,260, listed at $129,900, 1 year on market (Broker: Kremer Realty)
 
 FOREST HILLS GARDENS $690,000
 35 Wendover Road
 6-bedroom, 4 1/2-bath, 75-year-old Mediterranian stucco house; center hall, dining room, solarium, fireplace, semi-finished basement, 1-car garage; taxes $5,441, listed at $820,000, 12 weeks on market (Broker: Sarah Jones Real Estate)
 
 STATEN ISLAND
 
 BARRETT PARK $217,000
 43 East Raleigh Avenue
 3-bedroom, 1-bath 40-year-old detached colonial; dining room, remodeled kitchen, finished basement, 1-car garage, taxes $1,270, listed at $225,000, 1 week on market (Broker: Vitali-Sunshine Realty)
 
 WESTERLEIGH $207,000
 249 Martling Avenue
 3-bedroom, 2 bath, 42--year-old, brick Cape Cod; dining room, eat-in kitchen, semi-finished basement, 1-car garage; taxes $1,500, listed at $214,990, 2 weeks on market (Broker: Salmon Real Estate)
 
 LONG ISLAND
 
 GLEN HEAD $279,000
 11 Ellin Place
 3-bedroom, 2-bath, 38-year-old Cape Cod; dining room, eat-in kitchen, den, fireplace, 1-car garage; taxes $3,900, listed at $299,000, 5 weeks on market (Broker: Bauer Associates; Coldwell Banker Sammis)
 
 LAUREL HOLLOW $460,000
 552 Cold Spring Road
 4-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, 25-year-old colonial; dining room, eat-in kitchen, den, 2 acres, barn, pond; taxes $10,000, listed at $499,000, 12 weeks on market (Broker: ERA Vin Pan; U.S. 1 Brookville )
 
 SAYVILLE $134,000
 529 Durham Road
 3-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath 24-year-old ranch; dining room, eat-in kitchen, den, finished basement, 1-car garage; taxes $4,300, listed at $145,000, 24 weeks on market (Broker: Century 21 Bay's Edge)
 
 WILLISTON PARK $170,000
 164 Capital Avenue
 3-bedroom, 1-bath, 65-year-old colonial; eat-in kitchen, finished attic, basement, 2-car garage; taxes $2,800, listed at $175,000, 1 day on market (Broker: Atanas Realty Corp.)
 
 WESTCHESTER
 
 MOUNT VERNON $235,000
 134 Ellwood Avenue
 4-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, 38-year-old Cape; modern eat-in kitchen, wet bar, deck; taxes $5,000, listed at $235,000, 24 weeks on market (Broker: ERA Exactly Real Estate)
 
 NEW ROCHELLE $208,500
 280 Pinebrook Boulevard
 3-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath, 39-year-old split-level; entry foyer, dining room, one-car garage; taxes $5,086, listed at $219,500, 9 weeks on market (Brokers: Oshlag-Eisner Realty Corporation; Claire D. Leone Associates)
 
 YONKERS $410,000
 143 Delwood Road
 5-bedroom, 3 1/2-bath, 64-year-old Colonial; sun room, study, whirlpool, porch; taxes $6,500, listed at $455,000, 16 weeks on market (Broker: Ley Management Corporation)
 
 YORKTOWN $194,500
 82 South Moseman Road
 3-bedroom, 3-bath, 20-year-old raised ranch; dining room, family room, deck, two-car garage; taxes $5,715, listed at $198,000, 10 weeks on market (Brokers: Michael St. George Realty; Frances Billingsley)
 
NEW JERSEY
 
 HAMBURG $114,000
 574 Rudeville Road
 2-bedroom, 1-bath, 44-year-old Cape Cod; 2-car garage, brick fireplace, large rooms, taxes $3,040; listed at $118,000, 22 weeks on market (Broker: Weichert Realtors)
 
 MARLBORO $250,000
 102 Gordons Corner Road
 5-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, 10-year-old custom-built colonial; fireplace, full basement; taxes $5,800; listed at $259,000, 4 weeks on market (Broker: Re/Max of Freehold- Realtors)
 
 MIDDLE TOWNSHIP $71,500
 6 West Third Avenue
 2-bedroom, 1-bath, 50-year-old ranch; eat-in-kitchen, enclosed front porch, utility room, taxes $831; listed at $72,500, 19 weeks on market (Broker: DeMusz Real Estate)
 
 ROCKAWAY TOWNSHIP $154,000
 126 Elm Street 2-bedroom, 1-bath, 23-year-old ranch; c/a, 1-car garage, full basement, fireplace, taxes $3,255; listed at $159,900, 17 weeks on market (Broker: Prudential NJ Realty)
 
 CONNECTICUT
 
 DARIEN $930,000
 66 Salem Straits
 2-bedroom, 4 1/2-bath, 243-year-old wood-frame colonial; dining room, study, sitting room, study, 7 fireplaces, guest quarters above 2-car garage, .65 acre lot; taxes $7,488, listed at $995,000, 1 week on market (Broker: Preferred Properties)
 
 NORWALK $255,000
 16 Roxbury Road
 3-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, 73-year-old, aluminum-sided colonial, dining room, sun room, large deck, remodeled kitchen and bath, 2-car garage, .27-acre lot; taxes $3,433, listed at $259,900, 3 weeks on market (Broker: Prudential Connecticut Realty)
 
 ROWAYTON $320,500
 7 Dancing Bear Road
 4-bedroom, 3-bath, 38-year-old wood-framed contemporary; remodeled kitchen, fireplace, enclosed sun porch, private road, 2-car garage, 1.48-acre lot; taxes $3,968, listed at $374,900, 22 weeks on market (Broker: Prudential Connecticut Realty)
 
 WESTPORT $615,000
 27 Spriteview Road
 4-bedroom, 3 1/2-bath, 5-year-old, wood-framed contemporary; dining room, family room, solarium w/balcony, dressing room, fireplace, .22-acre lot, 2-car garage; taxes $6,485, listed at $649,000, 3 weeks on market (Brokers: Preferred Properties; Prudential Connecticut Realty)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

COMPANY: HALSTEAD PROPERTY CO (71%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES; PRICES REAL ESTATE (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



747 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 10; Page 3; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1504 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living in/Pelham;
Planned, Small and Close to the Big City

BYLINE: By MARY McALEER VIZARD

 BODY:
IN the late 80's, the Town of Pelham, in Westchester County, developed a reputation as a smart suburb for young professionals from Manhattan who were looking for a little more elbow room. National magazines began mentioning it, and an article in Esquire described it as ideal for "fleeing Manhattanites who want to stay near the center of the universe but don't want to fall off the face of the earth."
Nicholas Lemann, a national correspondent for Atlantic Monthly, who moved with his wife, Dominique, to Pelham from Manhattan seven years ago, fit that profile perfectly. 
 "We had been told these horror stories about life in the suburbs," Mr. Lemann said. "We thought it would be something like walking into the second act of a play."
Now he is a Pelham booster. "Maybe we missed something, but we love it here," he said. "It's a real community with a small-town feeling where everyone knows everyone else."
Actually, the term "Pelham" is often used to apply to both villages in the town -- Pelham and Pelham Manor -- which meld into little neighborhoods, all within walking distance of the downtown in the village of Pelham. It has several small shops, a movie theater and restaurants.
"Pelham is an excellent example of a planned community," said Susan Swanson, historian for the town and for Westchester County. "It was designed to resemble a small town where people could live comfortably and raise their families."
When Beatrice and Thomas Sos told their neighbors in California they were moving to New York "everyone said we weren't going to like it, that New Yorkers were unfriendly," Mrs. Sos said. "But we were surprised."
When the Soses settled in Pelham in June, neighbors stopped by with a cake and flowers. "That's never happened to us anywhere we lived before," Mrs. Sos said.
She and her husband, who is director of food and beverages at the new Four Seasons restaurant in Manhattan, were also attracted by the short commute to midtown. "My husband drives in every day, and it takes 30 to 45 minutes door to door," she said.
One of the first things people notice in Pelham is the maturity of the architecture. Most houses were built in the 20's, when Tudors, colonials and Mediterranean style housing dominated. The houses "were meant to evoke an earlier time," Ms. Swanson said.
One current listing is $369,000 for a 10-room 1920's English stone house with a walled garden. At the higher end is a 14-room 1912 Mediterranean with a pool and a separate cottage, listed at $1.1 million.
It is also possible to get a house for under $200,000, said Marilyn M. Stiefvater, owner of Prudential Stiefvater Real Estate. "But those houses are usually fixer-uppers or not in a great location, such as a four-bedroom that recently sold for $155,000 because it was next to a gas station." Most houses in Pelham sell in the mid-$400,000's, she said.
There is also a wide variety of co-op apartments, many in converted Tudor apartment buildings downtown. They range in price from as low as $39,000 for a studio to $155,000 for a three-bedroom with a formal dining room, said Barbara McCann, a sales manager for Stiefvater Real Estate.
Since the surge of building in the 20's, Pelham has had little available land for development. During the Depression several large mansions had to be demolished because nobody could afford to keep them, Ms. Swanson said, and after World War II those lots were subdivided for ranch-style homes.
History has left several landmarks, however, including the 1843 Christ Church, whose window over the altar was the first figured stained glass made in the country. And the Romantic-style Priory, built in 1838 and formerly a girls' school, is on the National Register of Historic Places.
Pelham, the oldest town in Westchester County, dates to 1654, when Thomas Pell, an English aristocrat, bought 9,160 acres from the Siwanoy Indians. He established a manor that stretched from the Bronx through Pelham all the way to Mamaroneck on Long Island Sound. In 1689, his son, Sir John Pell, sold 6,000 acres to the French Huguenots. This later became the City of New Rochelle.
At the turn of the century, New York City annexed 1,800 acres, essentially claiming what remained of Pelham's shoreline. Now the town's waterfront is less than a mile long, most of it occupied by the six-acre Manor Park, owned by the Village of Pelham Manor, and the 15-acre summer headquarters of the New York Athletic Club.
The Town of Pelham comprises two villages, Pelham and Pelham Manor, each with its own government and fire and police department.
"One day the two villages will merge," said Joseph E. Durnin, Mayor of Pelham. "It's only a matter of time because the economics of it will force that to happen."
After little development for most of the 80's, construction is about to start on two projects, one for people with moderate to middle incomes, the other for upper-income buyers.
Pelham Commons, a 130-unit apartment house that will rise in the Village of Pelham, will give priority first to village employees, village residents over the age of 55, then, in order, village residents, town residents and county residents. Prices will range from $119,987 to $220,603, with no down payment required.
The project is jointly sponsored by the Village of Pelham and the National Development Council, a nonprofit corporation that develops affordable housing nationwide. The agency is providing mortgages to the buyers and $23 million in development money through the sale of bonds.
Prospective buyers must have annual household income between $61,500 and $104,790, depending on family size.
The other development, Pelham Esplanade, 10-unit town-house project, is for "empty nesters," said Harlan W. Thayer, president of Pelham Esplanade of Armonk, the developer. "It's for people who want to stay in Pelham Manor but don't want to be responsible for a larger, older home," he said.
There will be a total of five buildings, each with two town houses. Units will range from 3,050 to 3,295 square feet and be priced in the $500,000's, Mr. Harlan said. Construction is expected to begin in the spring and be completed by fall.
In recent years, space has been at such a premium in Pelham that the only library was in a cramped 1,500-square-foot space in an elementary school. That will change when the 1927 Christian Science Reading Room is converted into a 6,000-square-foot community library with 25,000 volumes, said Victor Henningsen, co-chairman of the Friends of the Town of Pelham Public Library. The group has raised $1.2 million but will need $1.8 million, Mr. Henningsen said.
"It will not only be a first-rate community library," he said, "but a central meeting place for the town."
For parents in Pelham, the unifying element is often the schools.
"Sometimes I think the town is divided into little individual communities around the four elementary schools," said Dudley Hare Jr., superintendent of schools. In addition to the four k-5 schools, there is a building housing a middle school and high school.
CLASSES in k-5 schools have 17 or 18 students, Mr. Hare said, and the schools are sited so that almost all students can walk to school.
"It fosters a sense of neighborhood and community and close personal relationships," he said.
There is a district-wide technology program in which students from kindergarten through grade 12 can use computers and CD-ROM equipment to "incorporate into their academic work," Mr. Hare said. "We have the National Earthquake Center on line," he added, "so our science students can monitor earthquake activity around the world."
This year, Pelham Memorial High School was named one of the best schools in the nation by the Federal Department of Education. It offers advanced placement courses in calculus and biology and three foreign languages, French, Spanish and Latin. In, physical activity is also encouraged.
"About 70 percent of our students participate in at least one varsity or scholastic sport," Mr. Hare said.
The town has one Roman Catholic parochial school, the k-8 Our Lady of Perpetual Help.
Since there are few public parks, town residents use school facilities for recreation. The town runs a basketball program for adults at the high school and four tennis courts at Grover Field are open to the public. There are also two tennis courts at the town's Sixth Street Park. In addition, Pelham has the Pelham Country Club and the New York Athletic Club.
While some convenience and supermarket shopping is available downtown, most residents travel 15 to 20 minutes to shopping centers in either White Plains or Scarsdale for more extensive shopping.
Popular restaurants include Funiculi Funicula, for Italian cuisine, and Viva Zapata for Mexican food.
"I was a bit spoiled when I lived in Manhattan," said Beatrice Sos. "I could just stop by anywhere and get an espresso or anything I wanted. Here, your basic needs are covered but it's nice to know you have Manhattan so close by when you want more."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Pelham has a wide variety of apartments, such as these in converted Tudors on Fifth Avenue. (Photographs by Susan Harris for The New York Times); On the Market -- 175 Sparks Avenue, three-bedroom Tudor, $234,000.
19 Walnut Avenue, six-bedrooms, built in 1894, $325,000. 165 Boulevard Avenue, 1912 Mediterranean, $1.1 million.
 
Chart: "GAZETTEER"
 
 POPULATION: 11,903 (1990 census).
 
 AREA: 2.4 square miles
 
 MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $63,512 (1990 census).
 
 MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE: $400,000.
 
 PROPERTY TAX ON MEDIAN HOUSE: $9,000.
 
 MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE ONE YEAR AGO: $363,000.
 
 MEDIAN HOUSE PRICE FIVE YEARS AGO: $375,000.
 
 MEDIAN CO-OP PRICE: $75,000.
 
 MEDIAN RENT FOR AN APARTMENT: $1,000 for one-bedroom, $1,550 for two.
 
 DISTANCE FROM MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 19 miles.
 
 RUSH-HOUR COMMUTATION TO MIDTOWN: 30 minutes to Grand Central Terminal on Metro North New Haven Line; $5.25 one-way, $114 monthly.
 
 CODES: Area, 914, ZIP, 10803.
 
 GOVERNMENT: Town Supervisor (Paul A. Doronco, Republican), elected to a two-year term; and four council members, elected to four-year terms.
 
 LOCAL ARTS: The Pelham Art Center, built in 1985, presents classical music concerts and has an art gallery that showcases emerging artists as well as nationally recognized painters, print makers, photographers, sculptors and multi-media artists. The center also offers adult courses in oil paintings, watercolors, sculpture, life drawing and photography. For children, it offers courses in ceramics, cartooning and crafts.
 
Map of Pelham.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PELHAM (NY) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; LIFE STYLES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS SUBURBS (90%); TRENDS (71%); HISTORY (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); THEATER (54%); 

PERSON: VIZARD, MARY MCALEER MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



748 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1613 words

HEADLINE: Seton Hall Shoots For Higher Goals

BYLINE: By PRISCILLA VAN TASSEL

DATELINE: SOUTH ORANGE

 BODY:
THINK of Seton Hall University and most people think of five students dribbling a basketball down a hardwood floor.
But after a 10-year effort to upgrade the university's buildings and athletic teams, Seton Hall officials say they are ready to go head-to-head with their competition on a more cerebral level. 
 "We've gone through a building renaissance of sorts," said the Reverend Thomas R. Peterson, president and chancellor of Seton Hall. "What we're going through now is a kind of academic renaissance, in which not only the building continues but there is great stress placed on the academic life of the university."
Recently, times have been good for Seton Hall, one of the larger Roman Catholic universities in the country and the only one in New Jersey. Enrollment is increasing in the face of withering demographics, the campus sparkles with new buildings, money is pouring in and optimism about the future abounds.
"Seton Hall is on a roll," said Craig Leach, vice chancellor for university affairs, who is directing a $100 million capital campaign, the largest in the university's history. "The list of universities we compare ourselves to becomes better and better with each passing year. We think we can compete with the great Catholic universities in the region like Fairfield and Villanova."
While not everyone is convinced that Seton Hall will ever match Villanova or Georgetown, there is widespread agreement that, given its focus on providing a pre-professional education and location near the most impoverished city in the country, Seton Hall has established itself as a particularly solid institution at a time when many colleges of its kind are struggling.
The 137-year-old university, operated under the auspices of the Archdiocese of Newark, was until recently largely a commuter school with little visibility outside the state. That was before the basketball team threw Seton Hall into the spotlight in 1989 by making it to the National Collegiate Athletic Association Final Four, losing to the University of Michigan by one point in overtime.
While not denying the importance of that near-win in boosting the school's morale and reputation, university officials say it is the quality of education Seton Hall delivers that will ultimately determine the school's fate.
A key part of Seton Hall's effort to upgrade its academics is a plan to introduce a core curriculum throughout the university, exposing students enrolled in specialized programs like nursing, education and business to more of the liberal arts.
"It's an attempt to bring about a balance in a person who is graduating," said Father Peterson, who led a similar effort as president of Providence College. "If someone graduates from the School of Business and knows nothing about history or literature, music and art, then that person really would not be what we hope our students would be at the time of their commencement."
 
Defining Specific Goals
 The university is also in the process of defining specific educational goals and assessment procedures for each of its 83 programs. A history major, for example, might have to demonstrate an understanding of changes in perspective within historical literature and how history is written as well as a command of historical fact.
"People on the outside assume that most colleges have something like this, but that's not necessarily true," said Bernhard Scholz, provost of the university. "We want to say exactly what kind of goals we are aiming for."
The move to upgrade academic programs began in earnest in the mid-1980's, when the university overhauled its business school. A center for teaching was founded in 1987 to improve the teaching skills of the university's faculty, and a freshmen studies program was introduced the same year that has gone on to receive national recognition.
The 1980's also saw the start of a building boom that continues today. A $15 million sports center was completed in 1987, a new $25 million law school building opened last year in Newark, a $20 million library opens this spring, and construction begins on another academic building this summer.
And, most important for a school trying to broaden its reputation, several dormitories have been added, doubling the number of residential students the university can accommodate. Today, nearly half of Seton Hall's 4,400 full-time undergraduates live on campus.
 
Struggles in the 70's
 The glistening new structures make Seton Hall's economic struggles of the late 1970's seem like a long time ago, when to reduce a $7 million deficit, the university tried lowering admisssions standards and opening its doors. The debt was finally erased through better management and a series of tuition increases, and the school has had a balanced budget for more than a decade.
Financially, the university has outperformed even its own ambitious plans. A five-year $100 million capital campaign, the largest collegiate campaign under way in New Jersey, will conclude in 1994, a year ahead of schedule.
The success of the basketball team has, of course, added to the overall picture of financial health. Attendance at the team's Meadowlands games has risen from an average 3,500 people a game during the 1985-86 season to 15,000 last year, making the Pirates the second leading team in both average and total attendance in the Big East Conference, trailing only Syracuse.
The principal advantage of Seton Hall's 1989 near-win, as far as administrators are concerned, was that it has allowed the university to maintain its applicant pool at a time when the number of high school graduates has been plummeting and high tuitions at private institutions have been driving many students to public colleges.
At $11,380 a year for tuition, Seton Hall falls in the mid-range of cost for an independent New Jersey college, but it is still substantially more expensive than the average $2,310 tuition at New Jersey's eight four-year public colleges or $3,433 for Rutgers.
 
10,358 Enrollment
 With a total enrollment this fall of 10,358 students, its highest level since 1981, Seton Hall is soon expected to surpass Fairleigh Dickinson University as the state's largest independent institution.
An increasing number of undergraduates are being drawn from the top third of their high school class, though test scores on the Scholastic Assessment Test have not fared quite so well. After rising nearly 70 points between 1983 and 1989, scores for incoming freshmen have been inching downward for the last four years. School officials refuse to release mean scores, saying only that most students fall within a range of range of 840 to 1,100 for a combined math and verbal score.
Patricia Burgh, dean for enrollment services, admissions and financial aid, said the university was aiming for average S.A.T. scores of at least 1,000, but that it would not back away from a commitment to diversity to achieve that goal. In the last decade, minority enrollment at the school has doubled, constituting more than one-quarter of this year's freshmen class.
"It's not a racist statement, but the fact is that test scores have been lower for minorities," she said. "So while we aspire to reach that 1,000 average, we also would not do that to the detriment of admitting qualified students that may not be testing well."
If there has been a slight decline in the standardized test scores of students, faculty don't see it as a dilution of quality, particularly in light of earlier gains.
 
Improvements in Decade
 "As a general rule, the students over the past decade have improved, as have the faculty," said Robert Shapiro, chairman of the faculty senate and an associate professor of accounting and taxation. "Students who 10 years ago didn't know Seton Hall existed are now here from other parts of the country."
Relations between the faculty and administration have improved a great deal since the faculty unsuccessfully tried to organize a union in 1981. Some of the good will stems from a newly instituted faculty senate, but rising salaries may have had even more of an impact. With an average teacher salary of $55,536, Seton Hall has jumped from seventh place in 1985 to first in faculty compensation in a comparison with eight other Catholic institutions in the area, including Fairfield and Villanova.
Despite the generally upbeat mood on campus, Seton Hall has not escaped the tension that has arisen on many Catholic universities when students espouse positions that are at odds with official church teachings. In 1991 there were protests when university officials barred Leonard Jeffries, the controversial City College of New York professor, from speaking. Then last year administrators refused to sanction a gay student organization.
 
Issues Still Remain
 While much of Seton Hall's predominantly middle-class, conservative student body seemed happy to let the issue die, it touched a nerve in others.
"At this university and at all Catholic universities, the administration and students have to grapple with the issues of are we Catholic first or a university first," said Maria Perotin, editor of the school newspaper, The Setonian. "It's very safe to say Father Peterson is 200 percent Catholic first. It's also safe to say the way he has handled the issues has alienated a number of students."
Father Peterson doesn't accept such a dichotomy.
"I see no contradiction in those two things," he said. "As a university one must assemble a strong faculty and academic freedom, but we certainly would expect that people who come here would not do something that is contrary to the commitment of the church."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The copper-domed, $20 million library that is scheduled to open this spring on the Seton Hall campus in South Orange. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: SETON HALL UNIVERSITY SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (94%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: SETON HALL UNIVERSITY SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (94%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION BASKETBALL (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); CORE CURRICULUM (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (78%); HISTORY (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); RELIGION (74%); LITERATURE (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); NURSES & NURSING (64%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (50%); 

PERSON: VAN TASSEL, PRISCILLA MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



749 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 16; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: ART;
Bringing Out the Works of So-Called 'Outsiders'

BYLINE: By VIVIEN RAYNOR

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
SINCE a halfway adequate review of "Dream Singers, Storytellers: An African-American Presence" would be as long as the show's 238-page catalogue, this can be no more than a notification. To begin with the nuts and bolts: the spectacle celebrating the "sister-state" agreement between New Jersey and the Fukui prefecture in Japan is now on view here, at the State Museum, where it was organized by the assistant curator, Alison Weld. Its debut, however, took place last year in Japan -- hence the bilingual catalogue.
As explained in the foreward, the project seeks to reconcile differences between the two countries, on the assumption that art is a universal language. Be that as it may, viewers in a homogeneous culture like Japan's may have had trouble grasping the nuances of an African tradition modified by three centuries of subjugation and one of relative freedom. 
 Without slavery, would there have been a Bill Traylor, suddenly producing at an advanced age images reminiscent of cave drawings? Would the sculptor, Mel Edwards, have been inspired to devote 30 years to welding his series, "Lynch Fragments," while also making monumental sculpture in the David Smith tradition? Finally, can a show be called representative that is heavy with folk artists (more than half the 33 participants are self-taught, including four quilt makers) but that excludes Richard Hunt, Martin Puryear (admittedly at his own request), Betye Saar and many other major figures?
The first two questions are unanswerable, the third one, too -- but only after a glance at the catalogue. In an essay that discusses every artist, Ms. Weld contends that distinctions made between folk art and the mainstream kind are "artificial." She also states that the differences are "merely a question of particular life situations and discernible motivations," thus demolishing the barrier between amateur and professional.
Whether or not one accepts Ms. Weld's proposition, three anthropomorphized tree stumps by Bessie Harvey and three more by a kindred spirit, Ralph Griffin, are enough already. The same goes for the eight junk assemblages of Hawkins Bolden, who is blind, and the 14 little bundles of metal and plastic objects compulsively trussed up by the Philadelphia Wireman, who is presumed to have been black because his work was discovered in a black neighborhood.
While Traylor has no more devoted a fan, this observer sympathizes with black professionals who wince slightly at the overly enthusiastic mention of his name and those of other black "outsiders." Could it be that, in the art public's uninhibited embrace of his "unspoiled" talent, they suspect a fondness for noble savages and their natural sense of rhythm?
To make matters more complicated, James Smalls takes issue in his essay with those who would know "precisely" what makes the art African-American. He feels that the question smacks of the "division between us and them" that has caused so much trouble in the world.
Notwithstanding the title identifying the art as African-American, Mr. Smalls, an assistant professor at Rutgers University, insists that it is not about us and them but rather about "cultural continuities and understanding." Admirable as such sentiments are, they make "outsiders" of the professionals who have achieved fame in the real world but who are mixed in with the self-taught under headings seemingly designed to promote political equality. Thus, recent assemblages by Mr. Edwards, which are, by the way, larger and less clenched than their predecessors, fall into the "Poetics of Accumulation" category, along with the Wireman's assemblages and those by Lonnie Holley, another autodidact.
The logic of this grouping can be understood if not necessarily applauded. But what to make of William T. Williams's inclusion in the party? His patchworks of alligatored paint on canvas could symbolize the accumulation of years, especially in slum dwelling decor. But in appearance, they seem closer to the quilts, which fall under the heading, "The Constructed Image."
This pattern of incongruity continues with "The Poetics of Economy." On the one hand, the category includes William Edmondson's chunky stone figures and, on the other hand, the sleek, pigmented forms carved in wood by Tyrone Mitchell and the paintings by Norman Lewis of which the sparest and loveliest are two irregular Cubistic grids smudged in orange and brown on white paper.
Ms. Weld appears to have joined the school of thought that would discourage all notions of aristocracy in art, would in fact divert the viewer from esthetic values altogether. Considering her record both as a curator at the museum and as the former director of Rutgers' Robeson Gallery in Newark, this is a crying shame. In any case, most of the professionals in the show resist her efforts, willy-nilly. They include Benny Andrews, Willy Cole, John L. Moore, Joe Overstreet, who is currently showing some massive new abstractions at Kankeleba House, in Manhattan, Jacob Lawrence and Faith Ringgold.
Nevertheless and despite its implied contentiousness, "Dream Singers" is a visually handsome and spiritually heroic statement that is guaranteed to ignite discussion long after it closes next year, on March 20. The museum is at 205 West State Street; hours are 9 A.M. to 4:45 P.M., Tuesday through Saturday; noon to 5 Sundays.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Black Jacket," an oil with collage by Joe Overstreet. (Dan Dragan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); JAPAN (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); CHUBU JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: STATE MUSEUM (TRENTON, NJ)

ORGANIZATION: STATE MUSEUM (TRENTON, NJ)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); JAPAN (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); CHUBU JAPAN (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: ART; REVIEWS; ART SHOWS SCULPTURE (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); MULTILINGUALISM (75%); QUILTS & QUILTING (69%); 

PERSON: RAYNOR, VIVIEN ADAM SMITH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



750 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 19; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: A SENSE OF PLACE

BYLINE: By Jay Romano

 BODY:
IN one of my earliest memories I'm standing with my mother at the window of an apartment in Hoboken looking west and up the palisades at Union City.
My mother points toward the crest of the steep rise and says that soon we will be moving from our Hoboken apartment to a house of our own on the hill.
"Why?" I ask. 
 "Because if the Hudson River ever overflows," she answers, "we'll be up there and won't get wet."
The real reason we were moving, of course, wasn't fear that river was about to breach its banks; it was because our young family was moving up in the world. Forty years ago, upward mobility for a second-generation immigrant family from Hoboken was a move "up the viaduct" to Union City. The next step, if my father worked enough overtime, would be a move from "the city," which included nearly all of Hudson County, to "the suburbs," which meant just about anywhere west of Union City.
Thousands of families made similar journeys, eventually settling in houses with yards and driveways and detached garages, often in Bergen County.
Some stayed behind, though, and toughed-out life in the city. And over the intervening 40 years, those who remained have watched their property values -- and their pride in their towns -- rise and fall and rise again as Hoboken, Jersey City, Union City, West New York, Weehawken, Guttenberg and North Bergen continued to serve as they had served for more than a century: as stepping-stones for succeeding waves of immigrants a little too timid to tackle New York City and a little too poor to even think of life in the suburbs.
Over the last decade or so, however, "the Gold Coast," as it is now called, has undergone a significant change. Instead of being a way station on the road to the American Dream, the area has now become a destination in itself.
"It's a wonderful place," said Theresa Burns, 33 years old, of her adopted hometown, Hoboken. "If you don't mind being surrounded by people all the time."
Mrs. Burns and her husband have two young children. Five years ago, the couple moved from Jersey City to Hoboken to start their family.
"I'd like my kids to be raised here," Mrs. Burns said, holding one child semistationary on her hip while watching the other play on on the swings in Church Square Park.
Forty years ago, a family moving out of Jersey City would typically move to Lyndhurst or North Arlington or Rutherford.
So why Hoboken?
"It's hard to put a finger on it," Mrs. Burns said. "I guess it has a small-town feel with all the advantages of the big city."
In the past, people settled in the densely populated cities and towns of northern Hudson County because rents were low and houses were relatively inexpensive. Now, the opposite is true. A town house or a condominium in Hoboken, Weehawken, North Bergen and parts of Jersey City can command prices that 10 years ago would have inspired investor nirvana. And rents are comparable to some parts of New York City.
For people who live in the most densely populated county of the most densely populated state in the country, amenities like garages and trees take on great significance.
"I spent about $35,000 fixing up the house," said Mercedes Babot, 37, referring to renovations she made to her two-family house in Union City. The first item on the agenda, she said, was excavating several tons of dirt from the front yard and busting through the foundation wall to make a driveway and garage.
"Parking is a horror here," she said.
Ms. Babot, who came to this country from Cuba as a child and who is now manager of electronic graphics for Capital Cities/ABC in New York, originally had other plans.
"Like every other upstanding citizen, I had intended to buy a house somewhere else," she said. "I looked and looked and looked and then I said to myself, 'If Union City was good enough for me to grow up in, then what's wrong with staying here?"'
Indeed, the towns in the northern half of Hudson County -- along with parts of Jersey City -- offer an attractive alternative for those who want a cosmopolitan way of life but disdain the prospect of taxi horns blaring and police sirens screaming at 3 o'clock in the morning.
All of the towns have a lively mix of ethnic groups. The Italian, German and Irish immigrants of the late 1900's have been supplanted by Cubans, Puerto Ricans, Indians and Asians. Just a 15 minute commute to midtown Manhattan, the area is also a lure for thousands of young professionals who want to be within striking distance of New York City but not so close that their jobs follow them home.
Greengrocers, coffee shops, ethnic restaurants, newsstands and health-food stores line the main streets and cater to wants and needs that range from the mundane to the eclectic. The proprietors of many neighborhood shops often know their customers by their first names.
And though there are more than 150,000 residents living in Hoboken, Union City, Weehawken and North Bergen alone, the words one hears most when residents are asked to describe their neighborhoods are "small town" and "community."
"We looked in Queens and we looked in Brooklyn, and then we realized that no one would come to visit us there," said Laura Quisenberry, 32, who was driving through the streets of Weehawken with her husband, Brian Felton, 34, looking for houses for sale.
Mr. Felton, who is from Ramsey, said that Bergen County was "too suburban" for his tastes. Ms. Quisenberry, the artistic director of the Waterfront Ensemble, a professional theater group in Hoboken, said that she couldn't possibly live in a place "where everybody's the same."
"People of diverse ethnic backgrounds seem to add to the community," she said.
There is something about Hoboken and the other Gold Coast towns that make them special. Lifelong residents shrug their shoulders, shake their heads and smile when asked why they stay. Often, their answer is: "Where else would I go?"
Dr. Nino Falcone, a professor at Jersey City State College and the municipal judge in North Bergen, often calls North Bergen "the center of the universe" when addressing those who appear in his court.
"We're 15 minutes away from the greatest metropolitan area in the world," Dr. Falcone said. "Yet North Bergen has that small-town charm."
Dr. Falcone, who was born and raised in the town, said that despite the changes he has seen, there is nowhere else he would rather live.
"I've been around the world twice," he said. "I've been to the White House four times. But every time I get back to North Bergen, and walk along Boulevard East, and look at that marvelous New York skyline, then I know I'm home."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY; NEW JERSEY; HOBOKEN (NJ); JERSEY CITY (NJ); UNION CITY (NJ); WEST NEW YORK (NJ); WEEHAWKEN (NJ); GUTTENBERG (NJ) ; BERGEN COUNTY (NJ) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ; HOUSING; CONDOMINIUMS; RENTING AND LEASING; LIFE STYLES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS REAL ESTATE (78%); FAMILY (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); TRENDS (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); SUBURBS (72%); CHILDREN (71%); CONDOMINIUMS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



751 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 31; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 272 words

HEADLINE: Libraries Are Used More in Recession

 BODY:
It's too bad that the committee that was set up by County Executive Andrew P. O'Rourke to investigate fees for use of the public library chose to solve the problem by seeking private funds ["Libraries Urged to Lobby for Funds," Oct. 24]. Public library operations should be supported by public funds. That's what will keep a library public!
Each public library in Westchester is having monetary problems and to suggest that private industry (which is having its own problems) will freely give money to the public libraries with no strings attached seems rather naive. I was offended by the elitist statements attributed to Dr. Sal J. Prezioso, who suggests merging the public libraries. 
 Who will choose where the libraries will be located and who will provide free transportation to those sites so that the concept of a free library within the means of all citizens is available?
Unfortunately, we are living at a time when the spiraling costs of day-to-day living make politicians feel that money has to be spent on items not necessarily concerned with expanding education and the quality of life.
Somehow, we have to make our electees aware of the fact that public libraries are used more when the economy is down and are more important than keeping a baseball team in New York or building or increasing spending on roads or buildings.
The public library serves as a source of education and growth for all citizens at all ages of their lives.
 
MIRIAM K. MARGOSHES
Tarrytown
 
The writer is a member of the Warner Library Board in Tarrytown and a former member of the Westchester Library System Board.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES AND LIBRARIANS; FINANCES LIBRARIES (93%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (93%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COUNTIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); WRITERS (72%); LOBBYING (72%); BASEBALL (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



752 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2001 words

HEADLINE: To Asia With Hope: Opportunity Lures A U.S. Executive

 BODY:
At a time when Asia is enjoying an economic revolution, executives from Sun Microsystems Inc., the $4.3 billion-in-sales maker of computer systems, visited eight countries there during two hectic weeks earlier this month. They were led by the chairman and chief executive of Sun, Scott McNealy, 39. Mr. McNealy, who received a degree in economics from Harvard and an M.B.A. from Stanford, co-founded Sun in 1982. Mr. McNealy's impressions, recorded in a diary he kept during the trip and later agreed to release for publication, offer a sense of the opportunity that so many American businesses see in Asia -- and of how much American businessmen still have to learn about Asian economies and cultures.
Here are excerpts from the diary:
 
Jakarta, Indonesia, Oct. 30
 The next two weeks will take us through Jakarta, Singapore, Kuala Lumpur, Bangkok, Hong Kong, Beijing, Shanghai, Taipei and Seoul. We see a mutual opportunity here: to learn from their efforts as well as to share our technology, which will open markets for our company and their countries.
The developed world is tied to outdated technology and keeps investing in it because they must make it pay off. For example, while many companies in the United States understand why network computing -- distributing the workload among many computers rather than relying on just one central one -- makes the process quicker and less vulnerable to logjams and breakdowns, the fact is, they've got this heavy investment in old proprietary systems. Countries out here, however, can start fresh.
 
En Route to Singapore, Nov. 1
 We decided to wear a "uniform" on this tour to give it a sense of continuity and teamwork. For the Jakarta visit, we donned colorful Indonesian batik shirts. But otherwise we're all wearing white polo shirts with Sun's logo on the sleeves and khaki slacks. Somebody told us at breakfast that we look like a soccer team. I had wanted to go in blue jeans and T-shirts, my standard work clothes at Sun (that's what I wear to board meetings). But the sales staff said these cultures would find that offensive. They wanted me to wear a suit. So we compromised.
A group of us this morning paid a visit to a Dr. Bacharuddin Jusuf Habibie, an important Indonesian Government minister who oversees something like 12 industries. We met in his office, which is more like a museum for model planes, hundreds of them. I eased into my pitch: how Sun can help Indonesia modernize its infrastructure. We provide enabling technology.
Dr. Habibie, in his mid-50's, is an energetic Renaissance man who knows and understands technology from aerospace to computers, including Sun's. His engineers use them. But he doesn't believe a network of computers can be made secure. I made note of the fact that the United States intelligence community is a big Sun customer and well known for meeting strict security requirements. Dr. Habibie didn't care. Why should he? He believes the way to security is to load his files on his Macintosh Quadra at home and have his driver hand-deliver the floppy. Most of us in the room were trying to envision any business in the United States being profitable using couriers to deliver floppies.
It looked like an impasse. Then a member of my team suggested that rather than discuss our differences on network security, we show Dr. Habibie and his engineers what our technology can do. We suggested a seminar with demonstrations from key scientists and engineers at Sun. Dr. Habibie loved the idea.
 
Singapore, Nov. 2
 This is a remarkable island-city-nation that the United States could learn a thing or two from. In a meeting this morning with the National Computer Board, we were briefed on Singapore's plan to build an information highway. They are light years ahead of the United States on this endeavor, and remarkably more organized. Of course, it's easier to do in an island nation of 2.5 million, as opposed to 250 million. But this may be the first real "test bed" of that technology. The model they're using is very close to our philosophy of distributed computing with an architecture that is not proprietary but instead open to all who might want to innovate.
This is an English-speaking country, but some analogies just don't translate. I like to describe the "master-slave" mainframe computing model as a "hairball" -- a massively complex web. An American colleague suggested "bowl of noodles."
We got started on politics at lunch. I've never been one to hold back what's on my mind, and these people seem to find it amusing. The brash American, somebody said. The Asians are more reserved. We put our cards on the table, but we don't always know what they're thinking. This puts us at a disadvantage in dealings.
After less than 24 hours in Singapore, I'm more of a capitalist than ever. Low taxes, no capital-gains tax, no unemployment, mandatory savings instead of Social Security. What's right with this picture?
 
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, Nov. 2
 A very positive meeting this morning with the Malaysian Institute of Microelectronic Systems. This Government-sponsored research and development group was started in 1985 to help drive Malaysia to a position as a worldwide player in the microelectronics industry. The most hopeful aspect of the meeting is that they understand and endorse open-computing systems.
 
Bangkok, Thailand, Nov. 2
 The ride in from the airport was amazing. They're working feverishly to build new freeways but they're not keeping up. Traffic jams are the worst I've ever seen. I don't think I've ever seen so much construction in one place. Kuala Lumpur is a close second. These countries intend to be serious players in the world economy. If anything holds them back, it will be this traffic.
 
Bangkok, Nov. 4
 Lunch with customers today was very tough. Definite language problem. Even with an interpreter. The jokes just don't translate.
 
Hong Kong, Nov. 7
 I try to get a little work done on the plane. But I always have a difficult time reading and writing on the road. At home, the minute I get on the elevator something switches in my brain and I'm mentally at work. Out here, the switch doesn't seem to click. I am better connected than in the past, however. Now, I'm at least able to log on to my computer at work with a portable (an H.-P. Omnibook). I check the 150 to 200 electronic mail messages I get each day, so I'm able to keep up with the office chatter and memoranda. Of course, my managers hate it because it means they can never get away from me now.
People ask me what's the most "mission critical" application at Sun. I usually answer e-mail. For a global company, e-mail is the one sure method of communication. We have 12,500 employees doing a million e-mails a day. We have a saying at Sun that the network is the computer. I'm advising Government officials out here that the next computers they buy should be ones that communicate with other computers, not just process information. Also, get on the Internet.
 
Beijing, China, Nov. 7
 Everything is dull brown and gray, like going from Oz back to Kansas. But the economic growth rate here is 12.8 percent, and there is no sign of abatement. Yet based on my extended meetings with officials here, it's hard to gauge where China is going. They seem to be advocating free enterprise, yet talk about controlling growth and a return to Communist values.
 
Beijing, Nov. 8
 Just finished a walk before breakfast. About 100 yards from the hotel is a river that serves as an open sewer, a garbage dump and a place to bathe. Capitalism is often criticized for seeking profits at the expense of the environment. Here's all the proof anyone would need that a centralized, socialist government is not the answer.
I'm excited because the Chinese appreciate the value of our computing model. But I'm concerned because some companies are still trying to push yesterday's technology and these countries are, too often, taking that advice. The Bank of China met with us today and told us they understand the value of open-systems network computing. But the Federal Reserve Bank in the United States is advising the bank to buy mainframes. I tried to explain that the Fed is espousing the technology it knows and understands, purely for traditional reasons. When one mainframe goes down, it's a big problem. With 500 servers, when one goes down, it's one-500th of a problem. This is the sort of advice we can transfer to these areas. In exchange, they can help us by converting our software applications into their own tongue, growing the market for Sun and partners.
 
Shanghai, China, Nov. 9
 Opened the curtains to my hotel room to check the view. And there was a huge banner across the street, "Hewlett-Packard No. 1 in Unix." Ugh. Guess we've got some work to do getting the message out around this town. Shanghai and Beijing are the consummate study in contrasts between Communism and capitalism, all in one country. Beijing, a centrally planned, centrally run economy, can feel lifeless, dormant. Shanghai is alive with energy. There are shops springing up on every corner. Skyscrapers are going up. The mayor explained today about the city's plan for developing a whole separate city called Pudong, which will be a free-enterprise zone.
 
Taipei, Taiwan, Nov. 10
 Gen. Kuo Yun, the vice chairman and president of the Institute for Information Industry, joked that R.O.C. stands for Republic of Computers, not Republic of China. Little wonder, since 80 percent of PC's worldwide are made here. Still, those are PC's cranking out proprietary operating systems.
General Kuo's principal job is to oversee a strategy for the computerization of government and private industries. I'm trying to imagine the United States being that farsighted. The United States, meanwhile, is caught up in the possibility of bringing movies on demand into the home rather than developing a fiber-optic-based information highway to help businesses be more competitive. With priorities like that, it's not difficult to see who is going to get ahead in the information-based economy of the future.
The general introduced me in English for a speech I gave (with an interpreter). I learned that this was the first time he had spoken English in public, which is very unusual, and should be considered an honor to me. It's little things like this that you need to pick up on when doing business here. Fortunately for us, we rely heavily on partners for business in many of these countries, and they understand the customs and culture.
 
Seoul, South Korea, Nov. 11
 The last leg on the trip. One question that comes up often is when Sun will open a manufacturing plant in South Korea. I try to explain that our business model does not include looking for new sites for low-cost labor. For some reason, it seems to carry more weight in the press to open a plant and employ low-wage workers than it does to forge partnerships with local companies that involve transferring knowledge to them.
 
En Route to San Francisco, Nov. 12
 Prepared for serious jet lag: 348 hours on the road, 45 in flight, about 12 in immigration and baggage-claim lines, 18 in cars, 140 in presentations, press interviews and meetings. That left 84 hours for sleep, 30 or so for checking into hotels, packing and unpacking and catching up on e-mail and phone calls. I think that left us a grand total of 18 or 19 hours of free time. Forty-five speeches given, 500 or so business cards collected, 1,600 business and government leaders and partners who heard our message and delivered their messages to us.
Was it worth the expense, the time, the effort? I think so. American companies usually approach emerging markets as a chance to sell a lot or to pay low wages for menial labor. Yet the intellectual capital available in Asia is tremendous. American companies that realize this and figure out how to become partners with these countries will be successful in the 90's and beyond.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Scott McNealy, center, and Tim Dwyer of Sun, with Bacharuddin Jusuf Habibie, Indonesian official. (Sun Microsystems Inc.); Mr. McNealy with a tapestry in Beijing that reads: "One spark can light a whole prairie." Sun's microprocessor is called Sparc. (Sun Microsystems Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JAVA (NASDAQ) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (91%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (91%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (91%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (96%); INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (79%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (90%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (71%); 

COMPANY: SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC ORACLE AMERICA INC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES ASIA (96%); INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (79%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (90%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (71%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CULTURE COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (65%); SOCCER (50%); 

PERSON: MCNEALY, SCOTT MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



753 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2315 words

HEADLINE: From Sibling Rivalry to Civil War

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

 BODY:
FREDERIC V. SALERNO, vice chairman of the Nynex Corporation, has spent the last 18 months gearing up for the fight of his career. Shuttling between his office in White Plains and his investment bankers at Morgan Stanley, he has been poring over maps, studying demographics and using computer models to size up the competition in Nynex's New York and New England markets.
His conclusions have been sobering. 
 "If we do nothing, we can expect an erosion in our residential telephone market share of 40 percent over the next decade," he said. That translates to a loss of $1.6 billion in annual revenue. Alternatively, if Nynex spends billions a year on fiber optics and video technology, it will lose "only" 10 percent of the telephone market but may make back the difference in cable television.
Who could possibly grab more than $1 billion in annual sales from one of the seven regional Bell companies? Answer: another Bell company, or several of them, in league with cable television operators.
In Manhattan and Queens, U S West of Englewood, Colo., has hooked up with Time Warner to upgrade cable TV lines for telephones and a host of futuristic services. To the east, on Long Island, U S West and Southwestern Bell of San Antonio are vying to buy the Cablevision Systems Corporation, which serves about two million customers in Nynex's market. Finally, Bell Atlantic of Philadelphia is buying Tele-Communications Inc., the country's biggest cable company, which has systems sprinkled across New York and Massachusetts.
Ten years after the breakup of the old Bell System, the seven "Baby Bells" are rapidly dividing into hunters and prey. Led by Bell Atlantic and U S West, the hunters are using their alliances with cable television systems to raid their siblings' territories. While most publicity about the recent mergers has focused on the offering of futuristic services, it is the huge $100 billion market for basic phone service that is most ripe for plundering.
As a result, industry analysts say, many local telephone companies are in for a competitive shock that could rival what the American Telephone and Telegraph Company endured in the long-distance market a decade ago. Indeed, Mr. Salerno's worst-case scenario for Nynex closely matches A.T.& T.'s loss of market share -- from nearly 100 percent in the late 1970's to just over 60 percent today.
 
Goliath vs. Goliath
 For the Baby Bells, "the world is evolving into one divided between the haves and the have-nots," said Daniel P. Reingold, a communications analyst at Merrill Lynch. "It is now crystal clear that the haves are going to be attacking the have-nots, and that investors will have to value these two types of companies very differently."
The transformation of a sibling rivalry into outright warfare pitting Goliath against Goliath has profound implications not just for the Baby Bells, but for consumers as well.
Within five years, consumers in big cities may have a choice between two companies offering local telephone service, and the competition may lead to better prices and enhanced features. But it is also possible that residents in relatively unprofitable inner city markets or rural areas could see their service get worse, as telephone companies devote money and people to shoring up their most profitable lines of business with corporations and affluent residential customers.
The risks for the Baby Bells are enormous. Those that are uncertain of their strategy or that don't line up big cable partners -- notably Nynex, Ameritech Inc. of Chicago and the Pacific Telesis Group in San Francisco -- risk becoming second-tier players with a shrinking revenue base or even disappearing as independent companies. But such aggressive players as Bell Atlantic and U S West are taking chances too, by spending billions on cable companies and on constructing new kinds of networks that may not click with consumers.
"Until we've got some certainty or some reasonable feel for demand, we're not going to go overboard deploying technology," said Robert T. Burns, head of strategic planning at the BellSouth Corporation in Atlanta. BellSouth has been concentrating less on cable deals and more on wireless services, as well as on modernizing its network for traditional phone service to business customers.
For now, at least, Wall Street is rewarding the aggressive companies with higher stock prices. Bell Atlantic stock is up 15.4 percent this year, closing Friday at $59.125. U S West has jumped 20.9 percent, to $46.375. In contrast, Nynex climbed just 2.2 percent, to $42.875.
And those telephone company executives who have been waiting to make a big move in cable may find it is getting to be too late.
Because the cable industry is dominated by a handful of big companies, just a few strategically significant players remain up for grabs. These include Cablevision Systems; Boston-based Continental Cablevision, with 2.9 million subscribers; and Cox Cable, owned by Cox Enterprises of Atlanta, with 1.5 million subscribers.
 
Other Permutations
 Some analysts caution that there is still time and room for other types of alliances and other kinds of strategies, which could change the equation of power. It is possible, for example, that a Baby Bell could choose to become a long-distance carrier or merge with a second Baby Bell, turning what are now prey into a new type of hunter.
Michael Elling, an analyst with Oppenheimer & Company, theorizes that two of the Baby Bells could merge with a smaller cable company and end up with a system that covers more than half the homes in America. "Everyone is saying that Bell Atlantic and T.C.I. are the final solution," he said. "I'm arguing that they're not the final solution, and someone else could up the ante."
The five Baby Bells that are not, as yet, front-line hunters are using a variety of approaches to deal -- or not deal -- with their new environment:
* Cherry-pick the deals. Be more cautious about the multimedia future, but diversify through selected acquisitions outside the core territory in cable or in the cellular telephone business. Manage them as separate assets in a portfolio rather than as parts of a single grand vision.
This strategy is best exemplified by Southwestern Bell, which has become the third-largest cellular company in the country by buying systems in Boston, Chicago, Washington and elsewhere.
* Hunker down. Spend whatever it takes to fortify the home territory against the expected invasion.
The most extreme practitioner of this strategy is Pacific Telesis, which missed out on a big-league cable partner and has announced its own $16 billion plan to build a video network for its biggest cities by the year 2000. Pactel has gone one step further by planning to spin off its cellular operations, leading some to describe it as "the naked telephone company."
* Don't worry, be happy. This strategy works only for companies with predominantly rural territories, where competition will be slow to materialize. Concentrate more on buying cellular properties and foreign acquisitions for high growth, and concentrate initial fiber-optic deployment in the few big cities where competition will come quickly. Best exemplified by BellSouth.
* Blinded by the lights. No clear movement in any direction, best exemplified by Nynex and Ameritech. These two are unwilling to pay the high prices for big cable systems, and they have made no major decisions on building a fiber-optic network that reaches most customers.
In Washington, the White House and Congress are encouraging the free-for-all among the Bell siblings.
Last week, a bipartisan group in the House introduced bills that would end a Federal prohibition barring the Baby Bells from providing television programming over their networks. Separately, Rep. John D. Dingell, the Michigan Democrat who chairs the Energy and Commerce Committee, introduced a bill that would eventually allow the Bells to enter the long-distance business and to manufacture equipment.
Meanwhile, the Clinton Administration is drafting a broad overhaul of communications law, and officials have made it clear the plan will support competition between cable and telephone services.
The only thing Washington is certain to block is a telephone company buying an existing cable system in its own region, on the widespread belief that such mergers would create unacceptable monopolies.
 
Ahead of the Pack
 Even without Washington, Bell Atlantic and U S West are leading the way. Outside their regions, they are teaming up with Tele-Communications and Time Warner to upgrade cable systems for a full array of voice communications and new services, such as movies on demand and interactive television. Inside their regions, they are upgrading their own telephone networks to achieve the same thing, this time competing with local cable companies.
But the most immediate target -- and it is a huge one -- is the $100 billion market for bread-and-butter telephone services.
The technology to offer telephone service over cable TV networks is now straightforward. And the economics can be irresistible, because many local telephone rates are overpriced and can be easily undercut.
The current wave of deal-making between cable and telephone companies is, in large part, a reflection of those new realities.
Cable systems can carry enormous amounts of information, but they were built as one-way pipelines into the home. Telephone networks have sophisticated switching systems that can link people almost instantly, but the copper telephone wires that go into most homes have just minuscule capacity.
 
A Common Vision
 As digital and fiber-optic technologies have advanced, the telephone and cable industries have been racing toward a common vision of two-way interactive networks that offer voice, video and data communications. That race was already beginning to transform what had been two separate monopolies into head-to-head competitors. By buying cable systems outside their territories, such companies as Bell Atlantic and U S West are expected to sharply accelerate the rate at which cable systems enter the telephone market.
Many local telephone companies have a lot to lose. Not only is their business five times bigger than that of cable television, but the most profitable chunk of the telephone business is also the easiest to snatch away.
That chunk is the $24 billion a year that long-distance carriers currently pay local phone companies in "access charges" to connect to local customers. What makes these charges easy to plunder is that they are highly inflated, in part because they allow state regulators to subsidize low prices for basic phone service.
Nynex executives, for example, estimate the actual cost of providing access is about a half-cent a minute, but the going price is seven times higher. That spells big danger for traditional telephone companies, because it means rival networks have lots of room to undercut them.
None of this cutthroat competition among the Baby Bells was predicted back on Jan. 1, 1984, when A.T.& T. offically spun off the Baby Bells into separately owned local telephone companies. At the time, local telephone service was assumed to be a quasi-public "natural monopoly" that needed to be closely regulated. In effect, Federal policy quarantined the seven Bells in their protected niches by barring them from long-distance service and other lines of business.
The Bells still have a virtual monopoly over much of the local market, but most experts say there is nothing natural about it any more.
Consider the reach Bell Atlantic will have if its $26 billion takeover of Tele-Communications is approved by the Government, a likely occurrence. That would put Bell Atlantic in a league of its own, controlling more than 400 cable systems in every state outside its region except Alaska. Between its telephone and cable properties, its networks could reach 42 percent of all homes in the country. It would also own stakes in much of the most popular programming on cable, including CNN.
U S West, which has invested $2.5 billion for a one-quarter stake in Time Warner's cable properties, will be not far behind. Time Warner is the nation's second-largest cable operator, with 7.1 million customers. Most of its systems are also clustered around big urban centers, including New York, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and Charlotte, N.C. Time Warner also owns valuable programming, including Home Box Office.
Bell Atlantic and U S West now seem secure in their hunter roles. But their five siblings vary in the degree of their vulnerability -- and even in their own sense of danger.
Indeed, Southwestern Bell has been rumored to be forming a joint venture with Cox Cable, a deal that would place it squarely within the ranks of the hunters.
 
No White Flags
 In contrast, Nynex appears to be among the most threatened of all, and among the most uncertain. Its territory is ardently sought by outside competitors. It remains saddled by some of the highest costs in the industry. And it has yet to define its video strategy.
Even so, Mr. Salerno, the vice chairman, is hardly about to wave a white flag. Nynex had looked at many potential domestic cable deals, he said, but it shied away from their high prices in favor of placing its bets on cable investments abroad.
"Bell Atlantic paid 11.75 times running cash flow" for Tele-Communications, Mr. Salerno said. "They could be right, I'm not criticizing them.
"But that's not our vision. Outside our region, every investment, whether domestic or international, has to be balanced carefully.
"We're not a sitting duck," he added. "Our first strategy is to make sure you are the best in your region. What you want to do is fight them, fight them to the death in your own territory."
Next week: A closer look at Nynex.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Baby Bells: What They Are Doing, Where They Are Going"
 
AMERITECH
 
Recent Deals: None.
Attack Capability: None yet.
Defense Strategy for Home Turf: Cutting costs, spending heavily on fiber optics to support core telephone business. Wants to enter video business, but hasn't decided yet on time frame or strategy.
Outlook: Very vulnerable. Its big urban territories already under competitive attack, and no cable partners with which to fire back.
 
BELL ATLANTIC
 
Recent Deals: Buying Tele-Communications Inc. in $26 billion stock deal. Also spent $1 billion for 46 percent of Iusacell Group, Mexico's second-largest cellular company.
Attack Capability: Excluding cable systems within its own region, which will not be acquired, it will have more than 400 cable systems in every state except Alaska and extensive ownership of popular cable programming. Spending roughly $5 billion over five years to upgrade systems for two-way voice and data services.
Defense Strategy for Home Turf: Has been spending more than $2.2 billion annually on new technology; hopes to deliver video services through 20 top markets within five years.
Outlook: Unmatched ability to raid other Bell territories. But dense and affluent markets in its region will come under attack as well.
 
BELL SOUTH
 
Recent Deals: Acquiring minority stake for $1.5 billion in QVC home-shopping network, which is seeking to buy Paramount Communications. Bought 22.5 percent of Prime Management, a cable company with 500,000 customers in Las Vegas, Houston and Chicago. Owns cellular properties in Latin America.
Attack capability: Very limited. QVC and Paramount would provide programming.
Defense Strategy for Home Turf: No video strategy yet, but heavy spending on fiber optics in key cities to shore up telephone market for business customers. Outlook: Steady but unspectacular growth in region. Limited competition, due to heavy rural concentrations. Not much growth from invading other regions.
 
NYNEX
 
Recent Deals: Investing $1.2 billion for non-controlling stake in Viacom Inc., the cable company.
Attack Capability: Limited. Viacom owns cable systems with 1 million subscribers and popular programming, not enough to make a dent in other territories.
Defense Strategy for Home Turf: Not yet announced. Expected to speed up spending on fiber optics and digital switching, but seeks state regulatory changes first.
Outlook: Extremely vulnerable. Heavy competition looming; no major cable partner; high costs within region. But cable TV investments in Britain and Asia could bring hope.
 
PACIFIC TELESIS
 
Recent Deals: None in cable. Spinning off its cellular properties as a separate company.
Attack Capability: None.
Defense Strategy for Home Turf: Fortress strategy. Spending extra $400 million annually to provide video services and defend key urban markets like Los Angeles, San Francisco and San Diego.
Outlook: Uncertain. Big California cities to be under heavy competitive attack. Company still lacks a programming partner within region, and no ability to grab market share in other Bell territories.
 
SOUTHWESTERN BELL
 
Recent deals: Buying cable systems outside Washington for $650 million. Has bought numerous cellular systems outside its home base and a 10 percent stake in a Mexican phone company. Now third-largest cellular carrier in country.
Attack Capability: Limited, but believed on prowl for deals with Cox Enterprises and Cablevision Systems, the fourth- and fifth-largest cable TV operators, respectively.
Defense Strategy for Home Turf: Conservative, betting that large rural areas are insulated from imminent competition. Relatively slow fiber-optic installation, mainly directed at needs of big business.
Outlook: Promising. Cellular purchases doing well, allowing company to rely less on traditional core telephone business. Competition on its home ground will be less acute, because so much territory is sparsely populated.
 
US WEST
 
Recent Deals: Invested $2.5 billion for 25.5 percent stake in Time Warner cable systems -- the largest collection of cable systems after T.C.I. The two companies will invest $5 billion over five years to upgrade systems reaching 85 percent of customers.
Attack Capability: Formidable. Cable systems primarily clustered around urban markets, including 15 of top 50 metropolitan areas.
 Defense Strategy for Home Turf: Recently announced a 25-year plan to extend fiber-optic network throughout its region, adding $500 million a year to its capital budget to wire 500,000 customers annually. Moving to shore up Denver and other big cities first against expected competition from Bell Atlantic/T.C.I. and others.
Outlook: Strong ability to raid other Bell territories. Heavy rural concentrations make much of region unattractive to new competitors, though cities like Denver and Seattle are vulnerable. (pg. 6)
 
Map: "Their Home Turfs" shows regions of operation for the top phone companies in the U.S. (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (72%); CVC (NYSE) (67%); MS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (91%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (72%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (72%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (72%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (67%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (67%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERITECH CORP; BELL ATLANTIC CORP; BELLSOUTH CORP; NYNEX CORP; PACIFIC TELESIS GROUP; SOUTHWESTERN BELL ; US WEST NYNEX CORP (91%); AT&T INC (72%); CABLEVISION SYSTEMS CORP (67%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERITECH CORP; BELL ATLANTIC CORP; BELLSOUTH CORP; NYNEX CORP; PACIFIC TELESIS GROUP; SOUTHWESTERN BELL ; US WEST

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; CABLE TELEVISION TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); RESIDENTIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (75%); MARKET SHARE (75%); MERGERS (74%); FIBER OPTICS (69%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (60%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



754 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1458 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary: November 21-26

BYLINE: By Hubert B. Herring

 BODY:

COMPANIES
 
Hear That Gobbling? It's the Nation's Paycheck Being Devoured
It all comes down to jobs. To those without them, nothing on this page is worth a used turkey. But let's take it a step further: What kind of jobs? The corporate behemoths keep making mind-numbing cutbacks -- last week Warner-Lambert, Philip Morris and NCR took their turns in draining away thousands of jobs. And the trends behind their moves couldn't be clearer: Warner-Lambert, cutting 2,800 jobs, faces narrower drug profits in the great health care shakeout; Philip Morris, cutting 14,000, is facing up to a less-smoky society, and NCR, cutting 7,500, is adjusting to a shifting computer world. But all the while, the Government says payrolls are rising. Where? Some good jobs, to be sure, are emerging at small, entrepreneurial companies, but many new jobs are at the bottom of the heap. It was hard to give thanks on Thursday if you made the minimum wage on Wednesday. 

Back to Flying as Usual (for Now)
For the sake of argument, let's look on the bright side of the airline strike. All sides could be called winners: flight attendants (now the world knows how little they make, how disjointed their lives are), American Airlines (the costly strike ended fairly quickly), travelers (they were in time for dinner) and President Clinton (he emerged as a peacemaker). Then again, Robert L. Crandall, American's chairman, was disappointed, saying he can't afford the compromise sure to emerge from arbitration. And while the White House says Mr. Clinton "facilitated" talks, those who were facilitated say it was more like strong-arming. And for travelers, truly bad news: with airlines going through big changes, this disruption was far from the last.
 
Game of Chicken in Los Angeles
A bizarre disruption looms in Los Angeles. The city's airport tripled landing fees, and airlines refused to pay, so Los Angeles said it would ban their planes, starting Saturday. The airlines say the fees (about $900 for a 747) are unfair, even though they are far lower than at, say, La Guardia, Kennedy and O'Hare. Last week the airlines asked the Administration to step in, but no intervention is expected. What happens if no one blinks? Then it gets interesting, for though an airport can't stop a plane from landing, it can effectively block passengers from getting off.
 
A Warm and Cuddly Stock
As childhood memories rush to the surface everywhere, don't investors have a right to regress, too? Recalling, in a flash, how comforting teddy bears were at age 6, last week they grabbed for that fuzzy warmth at 36 or 56, buying shares in the Vermont Teddy Bear Company's initial offering as if it might keep Daddy from turning off the light. Shares in the company, which sells bears through cuddly radio ads, were offered at $10, but jumped to $19 before ending the week at $16.25.
 
Paramount Is Public, After All
It comes down to this: At a public company, whose interests must be considered first? The answer, a Delaware court said last week, is . . . the public's. By agreeing to merge with Viacom, the court ruled, Paramount put itself up for sale, so Paramount's directors had no business putting all sorts of roadblocks in the way of a higher bidder just because it didn't fit their well-laid plans. The ruling was a surprisingly strong victory for QVC, whose bid is higher than Viacom's; the judges said the board had failed in its duties by not considering that bid. It's not over yet, of course, what with appeals and possibly yet higher bids. No self-respecting takeover battle could end after less than three months.
 
THE ECONOMY
 
Strength, With Fingers Crossed
There was a troubling exception last week to the cascade of positive numbers. Yes, October durable-goods orders jumped 2 percent, to a record -- building a solid base for continued strength after another nondurable holiday season. And, yes, car sales rose 20 percent. But the University of Michigan consumer confidence index slipped a bit, a sign that no matter how strong the general economy, a particular person could still be on edge, worrying about tax increases, health care upheaval or, mainly, whose paycheck this job-devouring economy will snatch next.
 
At VW, Fewer Hours, More Jobs
What's to be done as advanced technology and corporate streamlining whittle away at the work force. By rugged pioneer rules, in hard times you work harder. But in Europe, the idea is spreading that if those with jobs work a bit less, there'll be more jobs to go around. This is uncharted economic territory, though, and because workers would never stand for seeing their pay cut as much as their hours, many have doubts. But last week Volkswagen gave it a try, putting workers on a four-day week -- a 20 percent cut in hours, a 10 percent cut in pay. Workers agreed because the alternative was a grim lottery: Of 100,000 jobs, the auto maker vowed to cut 30,000. VW had to do something: it has lost nearly $1 billion so far this year.
 
House Seats: Not for Sale
Once voters install you in the House of Representatives, it's hard to get thrown out. It's easier for an incumbent to raise money, and since the races draw relatively little attention, a gate-crasher has scant hope. A big hurdle to reform has always been that House members, naturally, don't want to rock the boat. But public pressure got so great that last week the House voted an $800,000 campaign spending limit. The overall limit is voluntary -- but exceeding it could be made a campaign issue, and meeting it would qualify you for $200,000 in vouchers to buy ads. "For the first time," said Carolyn B. Maloney, Manhattan Democrat, "we will have elections and not auctions to the highest bidder.
 
A (Simpler) Eye on the Bankers
Banking was a simpler affair until, in recent decades, the tentacles of savings and loans and holding companies got all tangled up. Government regulators tried to keep up by creating new agencies -- to the point, the Administration says, that the overlapping agencies were in their own hopeless tangle. Last week, giving its "Reinvent Government" war cry, the White House proposed creating a single agency -- a Federal Banking Commission -- to oversee the whole thing. The Federal Reserve wasn't happy about the idea: though it would retain much of its clout, it would lose its regulatory powers -- which it called "vital for the effective conduct of monetary policy." And the consumer? No direct impact is expected, though the Administration insists the simplification will lower the costs of credit.
 
Clean Kids, Dirty Dancing
Fact: A lot of adults want to watch dirty television programs. Fact: If such shows are on, kids are bound to see them. What's society to do? The F.C.C. tried for a balance, banning the broadcast of indecent shows between 6 A.M. and midnight. But last week a Federal appeals court said no, you can't brush away the First Amendment so easily, and ruled the ban unconstitutional. It was simpler before the days of cable, but since cable customers choose their channels, cable is deemed beyond Federal oversight. Trouble is, it's often the kids who choose to turn the set on, spending a frightening number of hours before the tube daily. Parents, of course, could always rush in where the Feds can't seem to tread.
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
Patience, Santa: There's Time
Thanksgiving. Just whisper the word and it gives retailers giddy little shivers. It's the day they can finally get out the lights and the plastic Santas, unleashing the Christmas hard sell in all its blaring glory. (Russell Baker once suggested renaming it "Thunderherd Day," a kickoff for the shopping spree.) But venture to a Dutch town called Assen this week and you'll never know the annual frenzy has descended. This year Assen said Enough!, and banned any sign of Christmas until Dec. 6. That's when Sinterklaas, patron saint of children and sailors, traditionally visits, and the Dutch are tired of having him smothered by his plump, white-bearded cousin. Said one Dutch woman of the American Christmas: "It's just some big pile of loot."
 
No Airline Merger in Europe
It's gotten out of hand. So many airlines own pieces of other airlines, or have deals of some sort, that they can't forge new ties without tripping over old ones. Earlier this year four European airlines had the quite reasonable idea that if they joined forces, they'd create a global powerhouse. But then the four -- Swissair, S.A.S., KLM and Austrian Airlines -- discovered that most of them had links with United States carriers. And try as they might, they could not agree on a crucial element: a single American partner. So last week they called the whole thing off.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Nashville, after the strike. (Associated Press); Los Angeles International Airport. (The New York Times); A Volkswagen assembly line. (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS DIARY (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: BEAR (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3942 DOLLS & STUFFED TOYS (60%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VERMONT TEDDY BEAR CO INC (60%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY WAGES & SALARIES (90%); AIRLINES (89%); AIRPORTS (87%); STRIKES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (66%); AIRPORT OPERATION (66%); SHAREHOLDERS (62%); DOLL & STUFFED TOY MFG (60%); 

PERSON: HERRING, HUBERT B BILL CLINTON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



755 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 23; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: At Work;
Accounting for the Uncountable

BYLINE: By Barbara Presley Noble

 BODY:
ECONOMIC indicators may help investors gauge the health of the economy but the typical indicator doesn't have a lot of soul. It doesn't tell us, for example, why, if layoffs line the road to recovery, the recovery still looks like Oz off in the distance. Or why George Bush got skewered on the economy thing last election, when the economy thing was in an upturn. Or why, if unemployment has fallen, 1.9 million jobs have been created in the last two-and-a-half years and the economy is starting to look like a rosy-fingered dawn, consumer confidence is hunkered down lower than an economist's navel.
The fault, according to Greg Tarpinian, is not in our moods but our numbers. Or in at least one number, unemployment, the principal measure of the state of the labor market. Mr. Tarpinian, executive director of the Labor Research Association in New York, contends that the unemployment figures released monthly by the Government don't tell the full story of the current wistful relationship between Americans and employment. So he invented a new indicator, the Job Opportunity Barometer, or -- just to cue your memory -- the JOB. 
 Is he allowed to do that? Indicators, it turns out, are not etched in tabular form by a divine statistician but devised by people who put on their Birkenstocks one shoe at a time, just like everyone else. Mr. Tarpinian, whose place of employment is often described as a "labor advocacy organization," has recently spent some time pondering the disparity between the rising employment figures and the decline in the consumer confidence index, a disparity he attributes to workers' worries about the future.
The index, Mr. Tarpinian said, "was an attempt to come up with something that doesn't just deal with numbers, but with the kinds of jobs and the expectations of income from those jobs. I'm trying to capture those things that may help shape people's perceptions of the economy."
People clearly understand, as Mr. Tarpinian writes in the October issue of one of the association's newsletters, that "the job market is not what it used to be. While jobs are being created, they are primarily low wage, part-time or temporary jobs with no future."
The barometer is a composite of six figures Mr. Tarpinian believes are critical to employment opportunity:
* Average real weekly earnings, or how much full-time employees earn. When the barometer declines, workers will feel the impact in reduced purchasing power. "Earning power is key to people's outlook on the future," Mr. Tarpinian said.
* Temporary employment.
* Involuntary part-time employment.
Both of these components of the barometer reflect the instability of the current job market, as workers accept short-term or part-time assignments -- often without "fringe benefits" like health insurance -- to maintain their standard of living.
* Unemployment rate.
* Unemployment duration, an indication of how much trouble unemployed workers have finding new jobs.
* Help-wanted advertising, the job seekers' principal replacement for the cereal box and the style section of the newspaper at the breakfast table and thus a good indication of their perception of the labor market.
THE JOB's baseline is 1982. When the barometer is less than 100, the employment outlook is worse than in the 1982 recession, a period of serious economic dislocation, especially for blue-collar workers. The most recent JOB figure, a preliminary number for September, was 97.8, down from 98.31, meaning confidence is below 1982-recession levels. The most recent recession reached deeper into the ranks of white-collar workers, undermining confidence into the vast middle-class, the nation's economic bedrock.
In the long term, Mr. Tarpinian said, the barometer is trending down, a reflection both of a decline in income and of a serious erosion of confidence in the economy. Bubbling just below the surface of the JOB is a tacit acknowledgment of the Tinkerbell factor: Beliefs (and hand clapping, of course), not facts, can be the drive train of economic behavior, especially in a consumer economy.
The gap between what people believe about the numbers and the numbers themselves sometimes has profound political consequences, as the incredulous patrician, George Bush, discovered a year ago. If the JOB is any indication, the gap hasn't narrowed.
 
 
 
ARE HAPPY DAYS HERE AGAIN YET?
 TO commemorate Thanksgiving, the holiday Franklin Delano Roosevelt moved to encourage consumer spending, here is more happy news, courtesy of the Economic Policy Institute in Washington:
* From 1989 to 1993, men's median hourly wage fell 4.9 percent, including a 2.7 percent decline in the recovery. From 1979 to 1989, the median wage for men dropped 11.1 percent, or 16 percent overall since 1979. Women experienced a gain of nearly 6 percent in the same period. All figures are in 1992 dollars.
* Of the 1.9 million jobs created in the recovery, only 46 percent were nontemporary private-sector jobs. More than a quarter of the job growth was generated through temporary-help agencies.
* A quarter of the jobs gained in the recovery were part-time, and three-fourths were filled by people who would rather have been working full-time. Voluntary part-time work has grown at half the normal rate.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tracking the Employment Rollercoaster" shows the Job Opportunity Barometer and employment and economy statistics from from 1974 to 1993/ (Sources: Conference Board; Bureau of Labor Statistics; Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LABOR RESEARCH ASSN BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR RESEARCH ASSN BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; JOB OPPORTUNITY BAROMETER (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (68%); 

PERSON: TARPINIAN, GREG; NOBLE, BARBARA PRESLEY GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



756 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1818 words

HEADLINE: Profile: Victor A. Kaufman;
No Armani Jacket. No Glitz. Just a Savvy Film Executive.

BYLINE: By BERNARD WEINRAUB

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD

 BODY:
VICTOR A. KAUFMAN is hardly the typical movie mogul.
While most film executives live in glitzy, art-drenched mansions in Bel Air or Beverly Hills, Mr. Kaufman lives sedately on Long Island. Buttoned down and bespectacled, Mr. Kaufman would seem utterly improbable in the jeans, Gap shirts and Armani sports jackets favored by many of his Hollywood buddies. When Mr. Kaufman, the former president and chief executive of Columbia Pictures, earned more than $30 million from the sale of the studio to Sony in 1989, his life barely changed. He did not unravel, undergo plastic surgery, enter new-age therapies, divorce his wife or do the usual Hollywood mid-life crisis thing. 
 What did he do? He learned to program computers and taught a course on entertainment-industry finances at his alma mater, New York University Law School.
And in the end, he said, he saw "a good opportunity to come back into the movie business, when everyone else was receding." Mr. Kaufman, 50, is now the chairman of Savoy Pictures, a 20-month-old, publicly traded company that has emerged as the town's newest and potentially most aggressive independent distributor and producer.
Savoy stands out for a number of reasons. For one thing, the Kaufman way of financing is fairly unusual by Hollywood standards: He lets select filmmakers own a piece of their films. "The point is," he said, "we would finance the movies but let filmmakers own their films -- let them make what they wanted to make."
What also sets Mr. Kaufman apart from most independents is his ability, with his longtime partner, 48-year-old Lewis J. Korman, to raise huge sums on Wall Street. In addition, Savoy has forged an alliance with Home Box Office, valued at $350 million to $500 million.
Mr. Kaufman's creative judgment in choosing films has been criticized. He is quick to admit: "I'm most fascinated by the numbers and the economics of the movie business. Yes, the creative people interest me. They're quite exciting and enjoyable. But I'm not a creative person. That's not my strength."
Mr. Kaufman and Mr. Korman plan an ambitious and well-financed slate of films, including two this year, 10 to 12 next year and more than 20 in 1995. Such numbers put Savoy, which is based in Los Angeles and New York, right up there with most leading studios.
The performers like Robert De Niro, Anthony Hopkins, Debra Winger, Tom Berenger and Kathleen Turner, as well as the hot directors like Andrew Davis ("The Fugitive"), Mike Nichols and Gary Marshall are set to make films for the company. Tom Clancy, the author of "The Hunt for Red October" and "Patriot Games," which have been a franchise for Paramount, recently sold the rights to a new book, "Without Remorse," to Savoy.
The company's aggressiveness comes at an especially difficult time for independent movie makers. Vestron, DeLaurentiis Entertainment and New World Pictures have died, and Carolco and Orion are struggling. As a result, Savoy is being watched here with intense interest, largely because of the ambitions of the Kaufman-Korman team, coupled with their successful track record over the years in the Byzantine and often high-stakes poker game of film financing.
Too many independents, Mr. Kaufman says, flounder or disappear because they are undercapitalized. While movie makers fantasize about the one bonanza that will enrich them, Mr. Kaufman says such notions are wildly unrealistic.
"In the movie business you have to have enough capital to withstand bad performance," he said. "In the short run, it's very unpredictable. When you're undercapitalized, your overhead is too high and you have too much leverage through high interest charges. Failure is inevitable."
Mr. Kaufman's aim is simple: to finance and market films partly by selling various rights, reducing the financial risk. And Savoy has also sweetened the pot considerably for its select directors. Recently, the company signed a three-picture deal with Mr. Davis, one of the hottest directors in town.
Mr. Davis said he was flattered that probably the only other directors who had such creative freedom were Steven Spielberg and Clint Eastwood. But even though these two directors have lucrative studio deals, Mr. Davis has been guaranteed a share of the foreign rights to his films and a salary of perhaps $4 million to $5 million a picture, the going rate for a top director. Such a deal on "The Fugitive," which has grossed about $150 million overseas, would have earned Mr. Davis roughly $20 million.
Mr. Kaufman said of his timing: "Everyone in Hollywood was nervous. Everyone was talking about the collapse of the box office. The idea was to finance the movies and be a marketing and distribution company, without a huge infrastructure."
Mr. Korman put it another way. "The key is not to believe any one film, or two or three, will be so successful you take risks that turn out to be unwarranted," he said.
Savoy was started in 1992 with $100 million in seed money, and this year the Kaufman-Korman team took it public with a $60 million initial stock offering. It has raised $500 million. The initial investors included Allen & Company, the New York investment firm that for years has been closely aligned with Mr. Kaufman; GKH Investments, a partnership that includes the Pritzker family of Chicago, whose holdings include the Hyatt Hotels; Mitsui, the Japanese trading house; Daniel Lufkin, a founding partner of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette; Mel Klein, an investor aligned with the Pritzkers and Mr. Lufkin; Frank Price, a former chairman of Columbia Pictures, and the producers Jake Eberts and Andy Vajna. Together, Mr. Kaufman and Mr. Korman invested $8 million of their own money.
THE four-year deal with HBO, Savoy's most significant strategic move, has the potential to provide perhaps as many as 50 Savoy films to HBO after theatrical release for home video, pay TV and pay-per-view markets. Essentially, the deal means Savoy can borrow against HBO commitments to raise production money.
Michael Fuchs, the chairman of HBO and a friend of Mr. Kaufman's, said candidly: "We're looking to get an efficient source of big movies. Soon Victor and Lou will be in the studio league, and we've gotten in on the ground floor. Certainly Victor and Lou have figured it out financially. The missing thing here is movie performance. The movies have got to make a bit of a difference."
Savoy's first film, "A Bronx Tale," a drama that marked the directorial debut of Robert De Niro, was well received by the critics but proved a box office disappointment. Its next film, "Shadowlands," an elegiac and wrenching love story, starring Anthony Hopkins and Debra Winger, is set to open in New York and Los Angeles on Dec. 25. Films after that include a traditional studio-like mix: a John Waters comedy, "Serial Mom," starring Kathleen Turner; an action film, "Penal Colony," starring Ray Liotta; an erotic love story, "Exit to Eden," directed by Gary Marshall, as well as films directed by Mr. Nichols and Mr. Davis.
Because of Mr. Kaufman's reputation as a businessman, some of the most formidable players in Hollywood are convinced that Savoy, unlike other upstarts, will endure. Moreover, Mr. Kaufman seems especially prescient about the film business in light of the current stampede to take over entertainment companies like Paramount.
MICHAEL OVITZ, the chairman of Creative Artists Agency, said: "Victor has a very, very facile mind and he has the ability to create financial architecture with a sensitivity toward creative people." And Ray Stark, the producer, said simply: "He's the smartest corporate financial executive in the business."
Privately, though, some executives and producers say that while Mr. Kaufman's qualifications as a businessman are stellar, his creative judgments are flawed. His years, starting in 1982, as the president and founding chief executive of Tri-Star Pictures resulted in a few hits but mostly tepid films, with forgettable titles like "Odd Jobs," "Let's Get Harry" and "The Squeeze."
No matter how bad the movies, though, Mr. Kaufman, Mr. Korman and their investors have profited handsomely. Tri-Star merged with Columbia in 1987, and two years later Sony bought the studio for $5 billion. (Tri-Star went public in May 1985 at $8 a share. Three years later, when the company was sold to Sony, the stock had reached $27.)
Savoy stock has done well, too. From an initial price of $14.50, it has risen as high as $22, but has since slipped to $19. Although several Wall Street analysts say it is too soon to make predictions about Savoy, some producers privately view Mr. Kaufman with a strange combination of grudging admiration and disdain.
"These guys know how to make money; they're horse traders who should be in the securities business," one top producer said. "But I wish they loved movies the way they love to work a deal." The aim of the Kaufman-Korman team, critics say, is not so much to build and nurture a studio as to develop a movie library and quickly sell the company for a hefty profit.
Mr. Kaufman says simply: "We love movies as much as anyone. Our love, though, is in the support of filmmakers and not our own creative involvement."
To his Hollywood associates, Mr. Kaufman's businesslike style works for him. In an industry where people spill out their most personal thoughts to relative strangers, Mr. Kaufman is intensely private. It is not an overstatement to say that he hates talking about his personal life, partly, it seems, because of his wealth.
Born in Bayside, Queens, the son of a furrier, Mr. Kaufman graduated from Queens College in 1965, where he majored in economics, and then attended New York University Law School. (One classmate, still a friend, is Peter Guber, the chairman of Sony Pictures Entertainment.)
Mr. Kaufman taught criminal law at the University of California at Los Angeles in 1967-68, then joined the New York law firm Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett, where he specialized in corporate and securities law. He joined Columbia in 1974 as deputy general counsel, and two years later became the studio's general counsel. He held various senior jobs at Columbia, where he met and worked closely with Mr. Korman. The two then founded Tri-Star, where Mr. Kaufman was the chairman from 1983 until December 1987, when he became the president of its successor company, Columbia Pictures Entertainment. He resigned two years later when Sony acquired Columbia.
He has been married to Loretta Kaufman for 29 years, and the couple have two grown children. He declined to say where he lived on Long Island, and what he drove to work ("You know what New York is like"). Asked where he bought his conservative, obviously expensive suits, Mr. Kaufman paused for a long time as if the question were painfully personal. Grudgingly, after some prodding, he finally made the not-so-startling revelation: Barneys.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Victor A. Kaufman, left, chairman of Savoy, and Lewis J. Korman, the president, at their Manhattan office. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: SPEI (NASDAQ) (88%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SAVOY PICTURES ENTERTAINMENT INC HOME BOX OFFICE INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAVOY PICTURES ENTERTAINMENT INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; MOTION PICTURES MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LAWYERS (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); WRITERS (60%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (55%); 

PERSON: KAUFMAN, VICTOR A; WEINRAUB, BERNARD MIKE NICHOLS (78%); ROBERT DE NIRO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



757 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 30; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: The Myth of Free Trade

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "Drop Textile Tariffs, for GATT's Sake" (Viewpoints, Nov. 7),James Bovard perpetuates the damaging myths that free traders have trumpeted for decades. None of this rhetoric ever seems to consider the damage that the loss of manufacturing jobs is inflicting on the United States, while it uses gross distortions to support the position that free trade is always right and any hint of protectionism is always wrong. 
 Mr. Bovard contends that apparel producers are more heavily protected than any other American industry and that tariffs and quotas amount to an added tax of $500 on every American family and cost consumers as much as $40 billion at the retail level.
If textiles and apparel are so protected, why are 64 percent of such products sold in this country imported? Why have more than 500,000 jobs been lost in this industry since 1979? The 1992 textile and apparel trade deficit was $29.2 billion, which accounted for 35 percent of the total United States trade gap of $84.5 billion, and it is not improving. After record imports in June and July, August was the highest month on record for textile and apparel imports.
In every year since 1985 the average cost of imported clothing has either exceeded or equaled the average cost of American-made clothing, as documented by the Marketing Research Corporation of America. Furthermore, a research report for the Economic Policy Institute states that William Cline (cited by Mr. Bovard as the source for his figures) overstated the cost of protection in apparel fourfold by failing to take into account high and increasing retail market concentration. According to the policy institute's model, apparel retailers and importers, not consumers, would benefit most by the lifting of import restraints.
Mr. Bovard says the United States textile and apparel industry is not competitive, yet research shows that it takes 14 standard labor minutes to manufacture a shirt, compared with 19 minutes in Taiwan, 20 minutes in Hong Kong, 21 minutes in South Korea and 25 minutes in Bangladesh.
Low labor costs are the only competitive advantage that many of our trading partners can legitimately claim, and that is not a compelling reason when you consider the huge economic losses we suffer when we lose manufacturing jobs to low-wage foreign competition. Larger numbers of lower-paying service sector jobs do not balance the loss of more than three million manufacturing jobs in the United States since 1979.
We have seen what happened to the footwear industry when it was exposed to an onslaught of imports. Are we going to expose the 1.8 million workers in the United States fiber, textile, apparel and home-fashions industries to the same fate? We simply cannot afford to continue to let our valuable manufacturing jobs drain away, whether in textiles and apparel or any other industry. Any trade agreements that encourage and permit that to happen must be revamped or blocked.
 
JERRY IASON
New York, Nov. 12
 
The writer is the chairman of N. Erlanger, Blumgart & Company, a wholesale textiles concern in New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); HONG KONG (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); BANGLADESH (79%); 

COMPANY: RESEARCH CORP TECHNOLOGIES INC (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (54%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (54%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (99%); HONG KONG (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); BANGLADESH (79%); 

SUBJECT: TEXTILES; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET TEXTILES (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); APPAREL MFG (89%); TEXTILE MFG (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (74%); RETAILERS (74%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); FOOTWEAR (69%); 

PERSON: IASON, JERRY

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



758 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 145 words

HEADLINE: Manager's Profile

BYLINE: By Carole Gould

 BODY:

Tom Spalding
 
 Fund: Nuveen Municipal Value , $1.8 billion in assets. Manager since 1987 inception. (Sponsor: John Nuveen & Company, Chicago.)
 
 Born: July 31, 1951; Oakland, Calif. 

Education: A.B., economics; M.B.A., University of Michigan.
 
 Last Vacation: One week in August in northern Wisconsin with family.
 
 Fund Performance: Year through October: +7.1% (all closed-end municipal bond funds: +13.5%); five years: +9.2% (+9.3%)*
 
 Inflation View: <arrow up> (self-rating; <arrow up><arrow up><arrow up><arrow up><arrow up> = most bullish).
 
 Bond Pick: Denver Airports Revenue Bonds 2023, because "we feel the bond prices will increase when the project is completed in 1994."
 
 Current Strategy: "We manage for long-term total return by identifying relative value in the municipal market."
 
 *Source: Morningstar Inc.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: NUVEEN, JOHN, & CO MORNINGSTAR INC (69%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NUVEEN, JOHN, & CO UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); WISCONSIN, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); BONDS (92%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (88%); BOND FUNDS (88%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (88%); BOND MARKETS (87%); PRICE INCREASES (51%); 

PERSON: SPALDING, TOM

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



759 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 15; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: HOME CLINIC;
Gauging Weatherstripping's Economy and Durability

BYLINE: By JOHN WARDE

 BODY:
SHOPPING for weatherstripping can be confusing. First, it is important to realize that the presence or absence of weatherstripping will probably not greatly affect energy bills unless one lives in a small house having many large windows and doors.
But weatherstripping does stop drafts. A homeowner may be able to lower the thermostat, and windows may develop less inside fog or frost. Also, because weatherstripping is subject to wear and tear, most types eventually deteriorate. 
 Choosing a long-lasting type does not always guarantee superior sealing. Instead, make selections based on a combination of performance, durability, ease of replacement and price.
Adhesive-backed tape of solid or sponge rubber or thick closed-cell foam is a good overall choice. It seals well, is priced toward the low end of the scale, is easy to install and usually lasts five years or more if applied to clean surfaces.
To prepare a surface for adhesive-backed weatherstripping, scrub it thoroughly with a strong mixture of household detergent and water. Rinse the surface, wipe it dry and wipe it again with a cloth dipped in mineral spirits to remove grease or detergent film. Dry the surface again thoroughly before installing the weatherstripping.
The chief drawback of adhesive-backed weatherstripping is that it has to be installed indoors, where it may be visible. The adhesive does not hold up well outdoors. Also, avoid using foam tape to seal sliding surfaces. When subjected to such wear, the foam breaks down quickly. Avoid using inexpensive open-cell foam tape altogether. It crumbles readily and is less resistant to drafts than the other kinds.
Foam weatherstripping attached to thin wood strips is also available for supposedly easy mounting. Although nailing the strips in place against the sides of wood door or casement-window frames is reasonably easy, strips have to be carefully sawed to the correct length, which sometimes involves cutting their bottom ends at an angle to accommodate sloping sills. The strips are then painted or varnished for protection and to match existing woodwork.
Self-sticking tension-seal plastic stripping is also a good choice, especially for sliding surfaces. An advantage is that it fits between surfaces like a door and frame and cannot be readily seen. It seals well, is easy to apply, extremely durable and is about in the middle of the price range.
Some tension-seal stripping has a V-shaped cross-section. When installing it around doors or hinged windows, position the crease away from the stop molding, which is on the outside if the door or window opens in, and vice versa. Another type of tension-seal stripping forms a wide angle instead of a V. Position the side having the adhesive as you would the crease in the V-type.
Bronze tension-seal stripping, also called spring-metal stripping, is the most durable of all varieties and costs about twice as much as its plastic counterpart. Unfortunately, it seals less well than rubber or most foam and can be tedious, if not difficult, to install. Nailing the strips is required, using small tacks generally supplied with the material.
Periodically, the free edges of tension-seal weatherstripping have to be pried from the window or door frames. If not done, the weatherstripping eventually flattens, creating a gap between the surfaces that it is supposed to seal.
Tubular gaskets, either hollow or solid sponge rubber, both with lengthwise flanges, constitute a third weatherstripping variety. Solid tubular stripping repels drafts better than the hollow style and is more expensive, about the same price as spring metal. Both types are as durable or somewhat more so than the best foam or rubber tape. They are installed by stapling or tacking, but are not as difficult to attach as spring metal.
Tubular weatherstripping can be installed outdoors. Generally, it is best to fasten the material against the frame, rather than to the window or door. On double-hung windows, fasten the top and bottom stripping to the sashes. Stripping along the sides should be fastened to the frame.
To install tubular weatherstripping, close the window or door and position the weatherstripping snugly against the surfaces. Starting at one end, drive staples or tacks through the flange at two-inch intervals while stretching the tubing slightly so that it does not pucker.
Staples should be installed parallel to the flange's length, not perpendicular to it. Finish by trimming away any excess tubing.
Felt strips are a fourth variety. Felt has to be installed indoors. Although durable, it seals out drafts only reasonably well. Like tubing, it requires stapling or tacking to secure. On the plus side, felt is the least expensive weatherstripping available, often costing much less than rubber or foam tape.
Sturdy weatherstripping is required beneath doors. Door sweeps that attach near the bottom of doors on the inside are the easiest to install. A vinyl sweep with multiple lower edges for enhanced sealing and a metal backing strip at the top for extra strength is a good choice. The average cost is less than $10.
A sweep with self-adhesive backing is marginally easier to attach than the type that fastens with screws. But the screw type is less likely to come loose.

GRAPHIC: Diagram: Among varieties of weatherstripping available are adhesive-backed rubber or foam strips, metal tension-seal strips, tubular gaskets and felt seals. Attach door sweep to inside of door to seal gap above threshold. Slots in metal backing strip permit adjustment. (Edward Lipinski)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOME REPAIRS; WINDOWS ADHESIVES & SEALANTS (90%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (76%); WOOD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (68%); 

PERSON: WARDE, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



760 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: The Designs Behind the Surprises

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
BILL CLINTON has just completed maybe the most successful month of his Presidency, with victories ranging from trade to gun control to labor disputes. But just when his Administration seemed to be taking off, the President's deputy chief of staff and legislative affairs director quit from exhaustion and Mr. Clinton blew up at reporters from Rolling Stone Magazine for never getting "one damn bit of credit" from the "knee-jerk liberal press."
Such contradictory scenes have become a fixture of the Clinton Presidency, which is why pundits trying to make weekly judgments are constantly shifting between proclamations that he has finally "turned the corner" and denunciations that his White House is in irreparable "disarray." 
 But both these judgments -- he's up, he's down -- miss something essential about the Clinton Presidency. It is destined to be the White House equivalent of "Mr. Toad's Wild Ride," because that is what his contradictory personality, and these extraordinary times, demand. He may be the most empathetic President in history, easily brought to tears in public, and he is also an unusually hot-tempered President, who can easily reduce aides to tears in private. He is Rhodes Scholar and Razorback, an internationalist with a small-town touch. He is the detail man, the policy pointillist, who nonetheless loves to paint visionary landscapes. And he is the President who can jawbone with his staff in the Roosevelt Room for hours, seeking consensus on every issue, while at the same time so dominating his Cabinet that it often seems as if he is sitting in every chair.
A George Bush can turn a corner. A Bill Clinton will always be careening up, down, around, and loop the loop, because this is not a man, and this is not a moment, given to right angles.
Despite the now weekly Clinton caricature in the press that seizes on one element of his personality or agenda and uses it to define him as a whole, it is becoming clear that Mr. Clinton's complexities may be well suited for these times. In recent weeks, what seem to be contradictory or unrelated strands of his politics are beginning to weave together into an ideology that the President himself has yet to fully articulate but is clearly groping toward. There is something called "Clintonism."
It is an ideology that attempts to bridge such seemingly unconnected events as crime in the streets and the North American Free Trade Agreement. That is, it tries to make sense of a world growing increasingly large, distant and sterile in economic terms, while people desperately seek to counter that sterility and distance by building a sense of community and family closer to home.
"If you listen to what Clinton has been saying," remarked the Harvard University political theorist Michael Sandel, "it is that Nafta is important in a world that is no longer organized within national boundaries. We have to adjust to that world to remain competitive and create high-wage jobs. But there is one thing Nafta cannot provide, and that is a sense of belonging. Nafta has no flag you can salute, no national anthem you can sing, no real sense of community to which people can relate."
That makes it all the more important, if transnational institutions like Nafta are to succeed, that we build local communities with which people can identify, Mr. Sandel added. "Otherwise, we will find ourselves without any form of political community that expresses our shared identity, and knits us together in the families, schools and neighborhoods that democracy requires."
That is why Mr. Clinton, in the middle of the Nafta debate, went to Memphis to give a speech to a black church about the "great crisis of the spirit gripping America today." He said it is a crisis that can be countered only by nurturing the quality of life of communities, by providing jobs that give structure to daily life and by demanding responsibility from people for their neighborhoods -- all this as the nation integrates with economic frameworks that are distant and global.
That Mr. Clinton seemed to make great progress on his agenda in the past few weeks is as much a credit to him as a comment on his times. It is as though the country and Congress, in passing Nafta, in passing the Brady bill requiring a waiting period to buy handguns and in applauding Mr. Clinton's decision to stress trade with Asia and Latin America as much as with Europe, has resolved that the status quo has finally become intolerable. There are too many guns on the streets to continue treating gun control as if it were simply a question of individual rights. A protectionist economy simply cannot compete in a global village. America's traditional Eurocentrism simply makes no sense in a world in which the South China Sea has become the new economic main street.
Not surprisingly, making this emerging Clintonism real has required the building of new, cross-cutting political coalitions by the President, because the old two-party structures forged during the New Deal can no longer answer the challenges of the new world. Thus, Mr. Clinton said crime cannot be dealt with merely by putting more police on the streets, as conservatives have traditionally argued, and it cannot be dealt with solely by focusing on poverty or the rights of the accused, as liberals have insisted. He argued instead that the best antidote to crime was a combination of 100,000 new police officers, gun control and -- most importantly -- jobs, which can provide a structure and routine to the lives of families that have broken down.
One irony of Mr. Clinton's vision stressing Nafta and neighborhood is that it seems to leave an unclear role for the nation, and the President, in between. Mr. Clinton's recent speeches make it clear he is groping to redefine those roles. He is basing this redefinition on the argument that the combination of global economic forces, which make some Americans real winners and others real losers, and violence in the streets, which is sealing people into walled communities, are splitting the country -- income from income, race from race, neighborhood from neighborhood.
One response was his creation of a National Service corps, a new all-volunteer youth army stressing community service. The hope is that it will inspire a sense of national political community at a time when our sense of national identity is increasingly blurred and there is no external enemy to sharpen it. Another response has been to argue for a new notion of "national security" -- not security against change, but security for change. The role of national Government today, he has argued, is to help the nation face the demands of Nafta and neighborhood by providing personal security, job security and health security. Because without them, he says, the rich will never make the necessary sacrifices for the poor, the poor will never embrace communal responsibility and the middle class will never make the huge changes required for the nation to remain competitive.
While Mr. Clinton has laid out all the parts of Clintonism,from National Service to Nafta to health care, he himself has yet to draw them together in a unified ideology and theme for his Presidency. This is partly because he seems to be still pulling them together. The other reason, say friends, is that he is afraid to articulate his full diagnosis -- that the disintegrating forces at work on the society from above and below threaten the fabric of the nation -- out of fear that it will depress the country, like Jimmy Carter's famous "malaise" speech.
But without such a compelling diagnosis, Mr. Clinton is like a doctor who prescribes one drug for backaches, another for knee joints, another for headaches. Each prescription alone promises relief from a particular symptom. Yet without a full diagnosis of where the nation is and why it needs to take such medicines, his prescriptions can also seem confusing and lack authority, and it is not at all clear the public will swallow them.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Riding out the pundits' shifting weekly judgements: Clinton in the Oval Office. (White House Photo) (pg. 3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROLLING STONE MAGAZINE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); GUN CONTROL (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); LIBERAL MEDIA (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



761 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: IDEAS & TRENDS;
Seeking After Truth In Times of Scarcity

BYLINE: By NATALIE ANGIER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
WITH the anointing last week of Harold E. Varmus as director of the National Institutes of Health, the organization that is the breath and blood of biomedical research in America, many scientists dared to fantasize that a sunnier and more abundant era might finally be upon them.
Yet some researchers say that even with his radiant scientific credentials, his Nobel prize and his forceful and persistent personality, Dr. Varmus has scant hope of reviving the grand old days of government largess and unbounded freedom that made him and his peers in the upper scientific strata what they are today. 
 Indeed, Dr. Varmus may represent a dying breed of scientist: the university researcher able to command a large and easily renewed Federal grant that supports an army of graduate students, post-doctoral fellows and technicians, all devoted to the unearthing of the body's deepest truths.
"No one has a sure source of funding anymore, no matter who they are or how good they are," said Dr. Jeff Boyd, a researcher at the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, an N.I.H. division at Research Triangle Park, N.C. "We're all feeling more threatened in our ability to carry out our research."
Not only is the Government growing generally stingier, but Congress and the public alike are clamoring for greater accountability from basic researchers, stiffening their demands that whatever problems scientists choose to address at taxpayers' expense will clearly result in clinical payoffs or marketable products.
The recent squeeze in biomedical research is having the greatest impact on young scientists. Many are abandoning the uncertainties of university science, taking jobs in pharmaceutical or biotechnology firms.
But even those who remain in academia find themselves adopting a supple and entrepreneurial approach to getting their work done. Young investigators are learning to live with the notion that their careers are not likely to proceed in an unbroken march forward, but that there will be lean years and fat years, years when they have the resources to follow their noses and luxuriate in the joys of experimental research; and years when they cannot afford to buy their flasks or pay an animal keeper to clean out the mouse cages. They are adjusting their projects and expectations accordingly.
 
Doing It Yourself
 "There's a selective pressure now for scientists who can do experiments that start and stop," said Dr. Florence Haseltine, director of the Center for Population Research in Bethesda, who has been involved in many programs designed to help women, minorities and young scientists. "People aren't continuously funded. Those who are good at managing under constrictions are probably the people who are going to do the best."
Young scientists are also making do with smaller labs with fewer full-time technicians -- one of the biggest expenses -- and they are doing more of the hands-on experimental work themselves, rather than assigning it to students and underlings. "Junior researchers are not going to see the senior scientists with megalabs as role models anymore," said Dr. Haseltine.
Paradoxically, much of the current crunch in financing stems from biomedicine's triumphs in delving into the origin of cancer, the birth and death of cells, the cause of AIDS, and the like. These successes have seduced an ever-widening pool of people to join the field, and the population explosion has outstripped the capacity of the N.I.H. budget that supports research. Between a sharp increase in the number of doctorates awarded in the biomedical sciences, and a steady influx of foreign researchers to universities and laboratories in the United States, the total of biologists and medical scientists has almost tripled in the last 20 years. During the same period, the institutes' budget, on which all those scientists rely for research grants, has grown by maybe 50 percent to 75 percent when adjusted for inflation. In the 1970's, at least half of all grants submitted to the N.I.H. won support, while today only 10 to 15 percent do.
 
Honing Their Prose
 Such figures sound discouraging, but it turns out that many worthy projects do end up winning approval -- eventually. Young researchers say they are spending many long and painful hours writing and rewriting grants. That may not be such a bad thing. In mastering the craft of persuasive prose, the researchers concede, their thinking is sharpened and their scientific goals are clarified.
Dr. Kathy Foltz, a 30-year-old assistant professor of biology at the University of California at Santa Barbara, who studies how fertilization occurs by looking at sea urchin eggs, said her first application to the N.I.H. for money was turned down, but she now has hopes that her second recent attempt will succeed. "I get resentful when I have to write grants all the time," she said. "But I also realize that it forces me to focus my attention and to think about my science carefully."
And no matter how arcane and removed from the patients' bedside their projects may be, biologists are feeling pressured to emphasize the practical potential of their work. "You may be in science for the intellectual stimulation of it," said Dr. Boyd, "but when you talk about it, you stress how your work relates to cancer. Accountability is the big issue here." Traditionally, scientists have not liked talking about how or when their work might lead to cures. Many have preferred to take a loftier stance, describing the intellectual pleasures of puzzling-solving, of slowly and deftly uncoiling nature's whorls and spirals.
But that sort of purity has a smaller place in this decade of relentless pragmatism.
"In the current climate, it's okay to think about applied stuff," said Dr. Foltz. When writing grants, she said, "I put in the obligatory paragraphs about how my work may lead to new approaches to human contraception."
She said her parents are dairy farmers in Ohio who pay a lot of taxes, that she grew up with the children of steelworkers and coal miners. "I'm sensitive to the issue that it's taxpayers' dollars that let me do my work," she said. "I agree that I should be held accountable for how I spend their money."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR COMMUNITY BANKING INC (58%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (92%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (91%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH SCIENCES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (92%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (91%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH SCIENCES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FEDERAL AID (US); RESEARCH SCIENCE NEWS (91%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); TRENDS (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); BIOMEDICINE (90%); RODENTS (77%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (73%); NOBEL PRIZES (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (63%); AWARDS & PRIZES (56%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: ANGIER, NATALIE; VARMUS, HAROLD E (DR) JEFFERY H BOYD (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



762 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
China Chooses Not to Prod North Korea

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER

DATELINE: BEIJING

 BODY:
AS brothers in arms, China and North Korea have a long history of standing shoulder to shoulder against Western "hegemony" in Asia. Perhaps half a million Chinese soldiers died defending the right of Kim Il Sung, North Korea's longtime dictator, to commit one of the century's great military blunders in attacking South Korea on June 25, 1950.
Today, the world is anxiously waiting to see how a much different China, one desperately seeking an era of stability in which to lift its 1.2 billion citizens to prosperity, is going to help North Korea escape its most serious confrontation with the West since Harry Truman was forced to send a general named MacArthur onto the beach at Inchon. 
 There are many signs that China's leaders are torn over which course to take, whether to back the doddering, 81-year-old general in Pyongyang, thereby supporting his quest to become Asia's second nuclear power, or join a United Nations pressure campaign to stop him.
Either way, China could lose, and that is why few analysts here expect China's untested new President and Communist Party boss, Jiang Zemin, a fence-sitter all his career, to take a leading role in Korean diplomacy.
This month in Seattle, Mr. Jiang, in his first performance on the world stage as China's leader, clearly demurred when Pacific leaders looked to him to exert some influence on his North Korean comrades.
Instead, Mr. Jiang told Prime Minister Mirohiro Hosokawa of Japan in private that China has little influence these days over Kim Il Sung and, therefore, could not be counted on to change North Korea's ways.
This must have added to the disappointment of President Clinton, who has little to show for upgrading relations with China at some political risk this fall -- including meeting with Mr. Jiang in Seattle. Afterward, he returned to Washington to strike a shoulder-to-shoulder stand last week with South Korea's President, Kim Young Sam, but avoided the more bellicose vocabulary that his Administration has recently directed at North Korea. And Mr. Clinton held out an unexpected carrot.
If North Korea allows inspections of its nuclear installations and resumes its dialogue with the South, the United States would consider standing down from the annual "Team Spirit" war maneuvers it conducts with South Korea -- war maneuvers that North Korea, through its paranoic lens, views as a prelude to invasion.
Asian diplomats say Mr. Clinton's offer, including other incentives like aid and the possibility of normal relations, was not self-inspired. Japan, South Korea and China have all warned that painting the prickly North Korean dictator into a corner is counterproductive. Mr. Clinton last week said he got the message.
Asian leaders also felt that the American oratory was too far out in front of the politics. They say no Asian power, especially those most threatened by the prospect of a nuclear North Korea, is now ready to support United Nations sanctions for the simple reason that they won't yield any result except perhaps a war devastating to the region's vibrant economies.
Japan and South Korea have made it clear they eventually may go along with a United Nations campaign of pressure and sanctions, but neither feels the threat has "ripened," as one Japanese diplomat said. After a briefing from Defense Secretary Les Aspin in Tokyo last month, a Japanese official said, "We still are not persuaded that North Korea has a full nuclear capability or an effective means to carry a nuclear weapon."
Such statements raise the question of whether the Administration and its Asian allies agree on what constitutes a North Korean nuclear capability. If North Korea has extracted enough plutonium from its five-megawatt research reactor to assemble one or several crude, untested nuclear bombs -- but is still far from actually assembling a device -- is this a threat so severe as to warrant an immediate United States-led military assault aimed at leveling North Korea's well-dispersed nuclear complex? Presented with such a scenario, an Asian diplomat will warn of the enormous flow of Korean refugees to the Chinese border in a military conflict, or about how the peninsula's economy could be set back decades, or of heavy casualties.
Now, as diplomacy approaches the brink over North Korea, the key players seem focused on different schedules.
The United States remains riveted on the International Atomic Energy Agency's inability to inspect North Korea's nuclear labs or assure the Security Council that North Korean scientists have not yet tightened the last screw on their first nuclear bomb.
 
The Long View
 At a meeting next month, the atomic-energy agency may well conclude that, having been thwarted since the spring, it can no longer guarantee North Korea is in compliance as a signer of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. That could trigger an unwelcome escalation of the crisis.
China's leaders seem to take greater comfort in focusing on the long term in North Korea -- the prospect that the death of Kim Il Sung will bring an era of change for a country caught in what Secretary of State Warren Christopher calls a "time warp."
Implicit in China's strategy is that it might tolerate the development of a nuclear bomb until it could persuade a successor regime to return to non-nuclear status, as South Africa did under President F. W. de Klerk. A Western diplomat here said that beneath China's noncommital statements on the need to avoid pressure is the hope "that they can somehow manage the collapse of the Kim dynasty and bring about a transition to a Communist regime that is more like China or Vietnam, one that is open and interested in economic development, but which is still Communist and retains stability."
If Mr. Clinton succeeds in his new policy of broader diplomatic engagement with what seems a hopelessly isolated regime, he will have scored a major Asian policy success, as well as a blow for nuclear non-proliferation. But the North Korean problem may also demonstrate a new imperative about the new world order -- that commercial interests and stability outweigh all but the most advanced, the most "ripened," of security risks.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Seeking to avoid a confrontation with North Korea over its nuclear aspirations, China pleads that it no longer holds much influence over its long-time ally. North Korean President Kim Il Sung, center, and his son, Kim Jong Il, right, appeared at the dedication of a monument earlier this year. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); ASIA (94%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); INCHON, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (57%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTH KOREA; CHINA CHINA (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); ASIA (94%); JAPAN (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); INCHON, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (57%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-NORTH KOREA HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (87%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); 

PERSON: TYLER, PATRICK E; JIANG ZEMIN (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); KIM JONG IL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



763 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Won't Take Credit For These Jobs

BYLINE: By J. PEDER ZANE

 BODY:
LARRY OSWALT doesn't like "Bubba." He has even less use for Hillary Rodham Clinton. And Socks the Cat? Me-ouch! Yet, as far as he is concerned, Bill Clinton hasn't received nearly enough credit for some of the less-than-shining moments of his Presidency. The Memphis resident, after all, made a tidy sum when the President reneged on his middle-class tax cut and another when he retreated over homosexuals in the military. "Nannygate" was a shot in the arm, and the Haircut was a real boon.
Mr. Oswalt sells Bill Clinton doormats -- "wipe feet liberally." He is one of a growing legion of rankled right-wingers producing products that poke fun at the President. Of course, items lampooning Presidents are nothing new, but lately it seems that conservative magazines like the National Review are positively swollen with ads for anti-Clinton paraphernalia -- a confirmation, perhaps, that for those who believe the business of America is business, making a profit is the best revenge. 
 Among the novelties are Clinton condoms and toilet paper, voodoo dolls ("so you can stick it to him"), calendars that count down his term, "Slick Willie" golf balls ("good lie guaranteed") and T-shirts and bumper stickers saying things like "You Elected Him, Now I'm Stuck with the Bill."
"It may be the only growth industry in America," said Tony Savage, the National Review's classified-advertising director. He said most of his advertisers are "mom and pop entrepreneurs" who dip into savings to develop a single product, sell it for a few months and then recede to be replaced by others.
The 15 entrepreneurs interviewed for this article all said they had defining moments that transformed them from critics to critics with a product.
Nikki White of Waterford, Mich., said she and her husband, Chuck, "bugged out" in March when the President was promoting his deficit-reduction plan. "He was biting his lip, with a tear in his eye saying that it was our patriotic duty to pay more taxes," she said. "My husband looked at his pay stub, shook his head and said he must be one of the most patriotic people alive." Their response: a "Pop Goes the Weasel" Clinton doll.
Michael Dalton Johnson, a publisher of computer magazines from Carlsbad, Calif., said he has been "flabbergasted" by the success of his "Slick Times," a quarterly with stinging jokes and venomous fabrications about Mr. and Mrs. Clinton (cover price: $3.95). "We printed 10,000 copies of our first issue in March," he said. "We sold 120,000 copies of our most recent issue."
Although such products can be discounted as sour grapes, Ben Wattenberg, senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, said Mr. Clinton should take heed. "The most difficult thing for a President to recover from is being laughed at: remember Gerald Ford," he said. "I think Clinton is straddling that thin line where people who are now laughing about him will laugh at him. Of course, he is smart enough to turn this around."
Former Vice President Dan Quayle, who knows from nasty political humor, said the President should "just ignore" it. "These ad hominem attacks reflect a viciousness that has crept into American politics," he said. "The best thing he can do is build an economy that offers jobs and a foreign policy that provides security. It's hard to make fun of that."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Poking fun at the President is a booming business, fueled by a growing legion of rambunctious conservatives for whom making a profit is the best revenge. (Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (87%); TAX RELIEF (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); POLITICS (71%); TAX LAW (71%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (69%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (68%); GAYS & LESBIANS (56%); 

PERSON: ZANE, J PEDER; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); QUAYLE, DAN (VICE PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



764 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-21
 
ANXIETIES FOR RUSSIAN MILITARY
Dismembered and demoralized, the Russian military is the most unwieldy and troublesome legacy of the Soviet empire. 1
 
Russian troops and their families are disillusioned. 19 

SAME COMPANY, NEW JOB IN JAPAN
Putting white collar workers on production lines is one way some Japanese companies are preserving a tradition of lifetime employment. 1
 
CUBAN TELLS OF PLOT ON KENNEDY
A Cuban official said in a documentary that the assassination of President Kennedy was part of a conspiracy and that he was fired on by Cuban dissidents and gangsters. 14
 
FATE OF SOUTH AFRICA HOMELAND
Bophuthatswana may accept return to South Africa, its ruler says, but only on terms that leave the homeland intact and largely in control. 3
 
DEATH TOLL IN BURUNDI STRIFE
The death toll in ethnic violence in Burundi may surpass that of the killings in 1972, when 150,000 people died, a Burundian official said. 7
 
Three French children were charged with killing a homeless man. 11
 
Egypt is moving to stamp out the Islamic student organizations. 16
 
Washington refused to meet with an Iraqi official on the oil embargo. 16
 
Beijing has released two elderly Roman Catholic bishops. A20
 
National 24-44

PUSH TO REVAMP WELFARE
As part of its plan to revamp the welfare system, the Clinton Administration is considering giving subsidies to companies that hire or find jobs for welfare recipients. 1
 
PARENTS BACK IN HIGH SCHOOL
At a Chicago high school, parents who dropped out years ago return with their children and get the diplomas they regret not earning. 1
 
LONGER FILMS, PLAYS AND BOOKS
In the era of MTV, the nation's cultural attention span is supposed to be contracting. Yet Lucullan feasts have been laid out recently, and audiences are eating their way, slowly, through all 12 courses. 1
 
UPHEAVAL IN THE MILITARY
The story of the Dragon Battalion offers a window into the military's world of upheaval amid troop cuts. Soldiers and families voice concern for their careers, cherished institutions and camaraderie. 24
 
NEW AGENDA FOR MOTOR CITY
Detroit's Mayor-elect sets out to tackle the crime and unemployment that have ravaged the city, and to improve the city's image. 24
 
ABORTION OPPONENTS SIDE BY SIDE
In a new twist to the abortion battle, a group of ministers in South Carolina bought houses next door to the area's two clinics and to establish pregnancy counseling centers. 25
 
SAFE STREETS FOR STUDENTS
Adult volunteers in Philadelphia are on the lookout for drug dealers, armed teen-agers, muggers and bullies, as they try to provide a safe corridor for children walking to or from school. 24
 
VOLUNTEERING TO PAY FOR COLLEGE
Many colleges have programs that tie financial aid to volunteer activity. But not all educators support the concept because the financing is open to all, regardless of their parents' economic status. 31
 
A PUSH TO LEGALIZE PROSTITUTION
San Francisco officials are considering city-run brothels that would rent rooms to prostitutes, check their health and collect taxes on their earnings. 44
 
Heeding Mandela's appeal, colleges reexamine divestment policies. 33
 
Metro 45-59
 
WAITING FOR WAL-MART
For 161 years, the J. C. Rogerson Co. hardware store in Hudson, N.Y., has not changed much. But now John B. McEvoy, a partner, has decided to spruce up the place. The reason: Wal-Mart is coming. 1
 
DEMOCRATS DROPPING SUIT
 After three weeks of legal and political wrangling over whether Republicans tried to suppress the urban black vote, the New Jersey Democratic chairman said yesterday that his party plans to abandon its legal campaign to overturn Christine Todd Whitman's narrow victory. 45
 
PROMISES CUT OFF
He had turned his life around: he had become a young man of promise with a diploma and a job, and the young woman who had given him courage was soon to give birth to their child. Friday night, two men intent on the couples' jackets ended all that. 45
 
GENERATIONS OF DANGER
Almost as much as the drilling, the blasting, and the concrete pouring for which sandhogs are paid, danger is a part of their job, as was shown by the death of a worker in a shaft last week. It gives the men an almost mythic view of their work. 45
 
A Sinatra museum may be coming to Hoboken. 52 Edward J. Rollins has two reputations. 48
 
Neediest Cases 53
 
Obituaries 58
 
Marvin Feldman, former president of Fashion Institute of Technology.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); JAPAN (94%); BURUNDI (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); CUBA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); JAPAN (94%); BURUNDI (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); CUBA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (87%); DECRIMINALIZATION (85%); VOLUNTEERS (77%); ASSASSINATION (76%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (76%); CONSPIRACY (76%); HOMICIDE (74%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (74%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (72%); DISMISSALS (72%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (72%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (72%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%); MAYORS (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (67%); HOMELESSNESS (67%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (67%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (67%); RELIGION (67%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (66%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (65%); ABORTION (65%); FACTORY WORKERS (57%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (52%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (51%); 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



765 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: Japan Finds Ways to Save Tradition of Lifetime Jobs

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HIROSHIMA, Japan

 BODY:
With a degree from the prestigious Keio University, Hiroshi Matsuo was working his way up the Mazda Motor Corporation's personnel department when he got a new assignment.
After three days of training, he donned an apron and oil-stained work gloves, and began unloading auto parts and delivering them to the assembly line here. 
 Going from personnel to production might seem like a demotion, but Mr. Matsuo considers himself lucky. His transfer reflects the extraordinary lengths to which Japan's blue-chip companies will go in the depths of a recession to preserve their tradition of lifetime employment.
 
A Lengthening Slump
 Faced with a loss this year of up to $300 million -- and unwilling to dismiss white-collar workers -- Mazda is shifting 500 of them to the assembly line for three-month stints to take over jobs that had been performed by contract workers.
But with Japan's lengthening slump, doubts are rising about whether some of the country's biggest companies will be able to preserve such paternalistic practices.
"Most manufacturers are desperately trying to keep that pattern but some might not be able to follow through," said Minoru Makihara, the president of the Mitsubishi Corporation, the huge trading concern.
Analysts say the inability or unwillingness of companies to drastically cut their work forces impedes their efforts to restructure and improve profits. That could prolong the recession. American companies, including the Big Three auto makers, are gaining on their Japanese competitors in part because they have become more efficient with smaller work forces.
Peter Morgan, an economist at Merrill Lynch Japan, estimates that Japanese companies now have two million more workers than they need, or about 3 percent of the work force. If they were let go, the unemployment rate would climb to 5.6 percent, from its current level of 2.6 percent.
Naturally, the Government does not want to see unemployment surge and is putting pressure on companies to maintain their payrolls. Some corporate managers would like to eliminate jobs but nobody wants to be the first. When the Pioneer Electronic Corporation said earlier this year that it would compel 35 senior managers to retire, it attracted a storm of unfavorable publicity.
"Why should I protest?" said Mr. Matsuo, 28, who said his new job at first caused him numerous physical aches and pains but was free of the mental stress of office work. When he works the overnight shift every other week he also gets some extra pay. "When we consider Mazda's current situation, with an excess of office workers, perhaps this situation is necessary," he said.
 
System Praised
 Many Japanese praise the system of keeping workers on the payroll. Although Japan is in the midst of what is now being described as the worst economic slump since World War II, there is no civil unrest here, few bread lines and relatively few homeless people, although the number appears to have risen somewhat of late.
Essentially, Japanese companies take on the responsibility of caring for the unemployed, a job that the Government does in the United States through unemployment benefits. Japan's Government helps companies by paying two-thirds to three-quarters of the salaries of workers who are being "retrained" or told to stay home because there is nothing for them to do.
About 200 industries, including cars and computers, have qualified for such subsidies, and the Government has budgeted 75.3 billion yen, or about $700 million, for such payments this year, an amount that is about to be raised to almost $800 million. In September, the latest month for which figures are available, such subsidies helped pay the wages of about 132,000 workers who were temporarily laid off and 17,000 workers undergoing retraining.
Lifetime employment originated only in the 1950's in Japan as a way of quelling labor unrest by making the company seem like one big family. It also applied only to big companies.
As long as the Japanese companies were growing rapidly, it was not hard to guarantee jobs for life. For one thing, companies did not have a problem if excessive payrolls cut into profits. At most Japanese companies, the majority of stock is in the friendly hands of affiliated companies that apply little pressure for short-term gains.
Also, the benefit only applies to full-time Japanese male employees, not to women, part-timers and foreigners, who are often forced out of jobs to make room for the privileged. Mazda has a place on its assembly line for Mr. Matsuo because it has been eliminating 1,500 contract workers.
 
Job Losses Grow
 Moreover, while outright discharges are rare, some forms of "voluntary" retirement -- such as when an employee is shifted to a dead-end job or asked to retire for the company's good -- are tantamount to dismissals.
So even though lifetime employment continues, joblessness is beginning to grow. Numerous companies have announced plans to shed thousands of workers by attrition over the next few years. Recently, the Nippon Steel Company said it would shed 7,000 employees -- 40 percent of its white-collar workers and 15 percent of blue-collar laborers -- in three years, a cutback the company insists it can accomplish through attrition and by transferring workers to affiliates.
Companies have also cut back sharply on hiring new recruits. That means more young people will soon be on the unemployment rolls, although many may choose to continue their studies and therefore will not count as unemployed. For each 100 job seekers, there are now only 69 job openings, the lowest level since 1987.
Paul Summerville, the director of research at Lehman Brothers Japan, said that while the nation's official unemployment rate was 2.6 percent, the true rate was 4 percent, not counting the people on corporate payrolls with nothing to do. Many people who lose jobs are women who decide not to look for another job and are not counted in the official unemployment statistics.
Still, by American standards, the cutbacks here seem surprisingly mild. Japan's big steel companies, for instance, recently began closing for two days a month during which employees will still get 80 percent to 90 percent of their pay.
 
A 'Slight Toothache'
 Nobuaki Masuda, an assistant manager in accounting and finance for Sumitomo Metal Industries, spent the first of these days off on a recent Friday going to a golf driving range with his wife and to a lake with his two young sons. Because he lives in company housing outside Tokyo, "almost everyone in that apartment was off Friday," he recalled.
Despite what seems like two extra paid holidays a month, Mr. Masuda said he expected to lose almost $100 a month in income, a loss he compared with a "slight toothache" that can be lived with but not ignored.
Sumitomo Metal is not saying how much it will save. But the savings will probably be significant because two-thirds of the pay the workers get for the holidays are paid by the Government subsidy program.
Still, Mr. Masuda said, "I don't think it's the ultimate solution for the problems of the company." Sumitomo Metal is expected to report a loss of 9 billion yen, or more than $80 million, for the first half of its fiscal year.
Besides moving white-collar workers to the assembly line, Mazda is moving office workers to its sales and service divisions. It is closing a small assembly line and cutting its work force by 3,000 people, or about 10 pecent, in the next three years by attrition. Recently, following the example of the steel companies, Mazda said it would close the company for two days this month, with workers receiving 90 percent pay.
Mazda officials said the new measures should be sufficient. But securities analysts said they doubted that Mazda had come to grips with its problems.
Meanwhile, Mr. Matsuo, who delivers brake fluid tubes to the assembly line, said he was confident that lifetime employment would be preserved.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hiroshi Matsuo, once a Mazda executive, now works in an auto plant under Japan's tradition of lifetime employment. (Andrew Pollack/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 7261 (TSE) (93%); MBC (LSE) (68%); 8058 (TSE) (68%); 6773 (TSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); NAICS424710 PETROLEUM BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS (68%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (68%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (63%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (63%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (63%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CHUGOKU, JAPAN (67%); 

COMPANY: MAZDA MOTOR CORP (93%); MITSUBISHI CORP (68%); PIONEER CORP (63%); MERRILL LYNCH JAPAN SECURITIES CO LTD (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHUGOKU, JAPAN (67%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR); UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; WHITE COLLAR WORKERS EMPLOYMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (78%); WORKPLACE STRESS (78%); EMPLOYEE DEMOTIONS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); TRENDS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); HOMELESSNESS (62%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



766 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1601 words

HEADLINE: One Town's Stores Plot Survival As Wal-Mart Grows in Northeast

SERIES: When Wal-Mart Comes to Town -- First article of a series.

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HUDSON, N.Y.

 BODY:
The J. C. Rogerson Company hardware store hasn't changed much in the 161 years it has anchored the main street of this small city on the northeastern edge of the Catskills.
Nails and screws are still dispensed from rows of wooden drawers installed in the 19th century, and graffiti scrawled by employees who have long since died remain visible on the beams supporting the store's basement. 
 So why has John B. McEvoy, a store partner who has worked at Rogerson's for most of his 68 years, been seized by a sudden desire to spruce up the place, repainting its peeling front sign, installing brighter lighting and vowing to be trained on the Macintosh computer that his son bought a year ago for bookkeeping?
It's simple: Wal-Mart is coming.
Since July, the nation's largest retailer has been building a store, scheduled to open sometime in the spring, on a former dairy farm two miles away in the town of Greenport. And based on the experiences of mom-and-pop businesses that have faced up to Wal-Mart elsewhere, shopping will never be the same on Warren Street, Hudson's main thoroughfare and the downtown business district closest to the new store.
 
A Push Into Northeast
 For decades, the Arkansas-based company has been building an enormously profitable chain by putting up discount stores in small towns, initially in the West and Midwest. In many cases the stores have completely changed the character of those towns by offering new jobs and shopping opportunities but also by draining the vitality of their downtown strips.
In the last two years, the company has begun to establish a foothold in the Northeast. Seemingly overnight, it has opened 25 stores in New York, eight in New Jersey and one in Connecticut. The Wal-Mart in Greenport, a town in Columbia County midway between Albany and Poughkeepsie, is one of 17 additional stores that the company plans to open in the three states next year, for a total of 51.
Unlike the store owners in Greenfield, Mass., whose town residents recently voted to bar Wal-Mart from moving into Greenfield, the four dozen merchants and antique dealers on Warren Street are betting that they can thrive in Wal-Mart's shadow by capitalizing on the carloads of consumers who will be passing through Hudson to reach the new store from the New York State Thruway.
In this, the last Christmas shopping season without Wal-Mart, many shops are working aggressively to attract new customers to the cobblestone sidewalks of their 208-year-old city. They have banded together to raffle off a $1,000 gift certificate redeemable at any Warren Street establishment, and have rededicated themselves to offering friendly service, cleaning up their stores and expanding their wares.
 
Studying the Competition
 They are also doing their homework on this new competitor, photocopying newspaper articles for each other, arranging seminars with retail experts, taking field trips to study Wal-Mart stores firsthand, and jettisoning those products that are in direct competition with Wal-Mart.
The stakes are high. Still struggling with the lingering effects of the recession, to say nothing of the universal rise in the popularity of malls and mega-stores at the expense of Main Street, many of Hudson's merchants concede that Wal-Mart presents a formidable obstacle to their survival.
"I can see it being a purging," said Pamela Taylor-Farrell, president of the Society to Promote Our Unique Town, a longtime association of Hudson merchants. "The weakest, the ones that didn't plan -- we're going to lose them."
With a net income last year of $1.9 billion on $55.5 billion in revenues, Wal-Mart has a total of 1,993 stores and is represented in every state but Alaska and Vermont. A longtime darling of Wall Street, Wal-Mart's stock has fallen slightly this year, in part because of slowing sales in its warehouse club business. But analysts said the company's discount stores remain consistently profitable.
Greenport town officials are delighted at being selected as the home of a 121,267-square-foot Wal-Mart -- big enough to house two football fields side-by-side -- and are anticipating the sales-tax and property-tax revenues that will be generated by the store. Smaller Wal-Marts in other towns have routinely sold $20 million worth of goods a year.
Francis E. Keeler, a dairy farmer who has been Greenport's Town Supervisor for the last 10 years, said he is grateful that Wal-Mart will bring 250 new jobs to a county that lost hundreds when a match factory, two cement manufacturers and a company that made hydraulic presses shut down in recent years. And he is hopeful that Wal-Mart will serve as a magnet for other businesses. A developer already has filed plans in the town office to build a plaza, just north of Wal-Mart on Route 9, which will reportedly include Kmart, J.C. Penney and Wholesale Depot.
"It's traffic that's going to be bringing big dollars into the community," Mr. Keeler said.
While the arrival of Wal-Mart has engendered much anxiety in Hudson, an urban enclave of 8,000 people that Greenport surrounds like a doughnut, Jeff Bagnall does not count himself among the quavering. A retired Nassau County police captain, Mr. Bagnall, 45, moved here six years ago for a "change of life," and wound up opening Sweeps, a shop that sells and services vacuum cleaners.
A salesman whose style is equal parts car dealer and science teacher -- he uses gauges to demonstrate his vacuums' sucking power -- Mr. Bagnall has become certified, in recent months, to repair a host of machines and small appliances that Wal-Mart happens to stock, including such brands as Regina, Dirt Devil and Bissell.
"I'm certainly not dependent on Wal-Mart to bring me business," Mr. Bagnall said. "But because they're moving in, I intend to capitalize.
"If someone goes in there and buys a Sunbeam coffee pot and the carafe breaks -- Bingo!"
Like others on Warren Street, Mr. Bagnall has studied Wal-Mart's operations like a college student cramming for a final exam, learning that its impact will be far greater than that of Ames and Jamesway, two smaller discount department stores that have long served the Greenport area.
Brian Wansink, an assistant professor of marketing at the Amos Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College, said Wal-Mart transcends other discount merchandisers, in large part, because its stores offer more name brands, friendlier assistance and generally lower prices, and are stocked by a sophisticated distribution network that links each cash register to a regional warehouse. A Wal-Mart duplicates virtually every shopping option of a typical downtown -- a pharmacy, toy department and paint center are among dozens of sections that overlap with Warren Street businesses -- and places them, undivided by walls, under one roof.
 
Adapting to Meet Challenge
 Kenneth Stone, an economics professor at Iowa State University and a prominent lecturer on Wal-Mart, advises smaller merchants that to coexist with such a juggernaut, they must expand their hours, buy joint advertising with other main street businesses and strategically adapt their operations to stock those few items -- like sporting apparel and athletic shoes -- that Wal-Mart carries in lesser quantities, if at all.
Among the stores that are usually hit hardest by Wal-Mart, Mr. Stone said, are those that sell hardware, which does not bode well for the J. C. Rogerson Company.
But Mr. McEvoy, the partner who first worked at Rogerson's at age 13, when it was owned by his father and uncle, said he is confident that the store will continue to prosper, given its longtime commitment to service -- he identifies the voices of most customers on the phone before they say their names -- and its sprawling variety, including 300 kinds of bolts, 28 types of chains and 30 different hooks, all stored in seven floors of behind-the-scenes stockrooms.
"Wal-Mart, I'm sure, won't have these," Mr. McEvoy said, holding up an orange contraption made of steel that fastens a load to a truck.
Also in the line of fire is Airhead Balloons/Hudson Flower Market, a shop a few doors down from Rogerson's that, like Wal-Mart, sells balloons, gifts, cards and toys. Knowing it is nearly impossible to undercut Wal-Mart's prices, given its huge buying power, the shop's owner, Dara Laraway, said she has begun shifting her business to emphasize fresh flowers, fruit baskets and electric trains -- three items she has not observed in several scouting missions to other Wal-Mart stores.
"The first month will be pure hell," Ms. Laraway said of the store's opening. "Then I believe the public will come back."
To guard against an exodus of consumers, Ms. Taylor-Farrell, the president of the local business association, has served as a one-woman wake-up call, brashly upbraiding store owners for such lapses as parking their cars in choice spaces in front of their businesses and arranging seminars for them with business people who have jousted with Wal-Mart elsewhere.
"I don't want to be Henny Penny, running around saying the sky is falling," said Ms. Taylor-Farrell, standing amid the 19th-century brick facades of Warren Street. "That's not the case. Everyone can stay right where they are and grow, but we all have to learn."
Ultimately, of course, it is the consumer who will decide how Warren Street fares. And many here say they welcome Wal-Mart.
"The more the merrier," said Eleanor McIntyre, 61, a part-time bookkeeper at a local radio station. "You have to shop around today for your bargains. A little competition is good for everybody."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Wal-Mart, the nation's largest retailer, is to open a branch in Greenport, N.Y. Two miles away, John B. McEvoy, is meeting the challenge by sprucing up J. C. Rogerson Company, a 161-year old hardware store; Francis E. Keeler, Greenport's Town Supervisor for 10 years, walking in the unfinished Wal-Mart, which he foresees as a source of 250 new jobs in a county that lost hundreds when four companies shut down. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) (pg. 54)
 
Map shows the location of Hudson, New York. (pg. 54)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (95%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC WAL-MART STORES INC (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: WAL-MART STORES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HUDSON (NY); GREENPORT (NY); GREENFIELD (MASS) UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SURVEYS AND SERIES; DISCOUNT SELLING DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); HARDWARE STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); CITIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (73%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (60%); CHRISTMAS (60%); 

PERSON: STEINBERG, JACQUES

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



767 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 3692 words

HEADLINE: Russia's Military: A Shriveled and Volatile Legacy

SERIES: An Army Adrift -- First of six articles.

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Nov. 26

 BODY:
Dismembered and demoralized, unloved at home and no longer so feared in the West, the Russian armed forces are the most unwieldy and troublesome legacy of the Soviet empire.
Draft evasion is rampant, and if the current call-up goes as badly as some fear, officers might actually outnumber enlisted men. Young officers are quitting in droves, leaving behind a top-heavy and hollow force. By some accounts, there are more generals now on the Russian General Staff than there were in the Soviet days, even though the Russian Army is less than 40 percent of what the Soviet force was. 
 Officers, reduced from the elite caste of an empire to an impoverished, disunited and often homeless mass, have become less the guardians of than a menace to the sovereignty of Russia and its 14 new neighbors. By many accounts, military support for President Boris N. Yeltsin against the militant legislature in October was far from unified or certain.
 
New Military Doctrine
 In Moscow, a new "military doctrine" was finally produced, grandly declaring that the Russian Army no longer considers any nation or bloc to be its foe and that its new mission will be to react quickly to local conflicts.
But interviews with Russian officers, enlisted men and civilian specialists indicate that economic and political forces, rather than policy, are shaping the future of the force.
A shrinking military budget barely suffices to sustain the troops, leaving precious little for fuel, maintenance or the future. More than 180,000 officers, most of them withdrawn from Eastern Europe and the Baltic states, are without housing. Warships are sold for scrap metal, the MIG design bureau sells rides in state-of-the-art MIG-29's for $8,000 each, and soldiers sell their weapons or serve as mercenaries in regional wars. It is common to see soldiers in fatigues openly selling fuel from army tankers.
 
Like 'a Defeated Army'
 "A tremendous military machine, second to none, has all of a sudden found itself in the position of a defeated army," said Sergei M. Rogov, a military specialist at the Institute of the U.S.A. and Canada, a Moscow research organization.
History offered no precedent for so abrupt a collapse of an empire, virtually under its own weight. The Third Reich fell in war, the Ottoman Empire slowly degenerated, Britain gradually withdrew from its global empire, but the Soviet Union simply crumpled as its ideology ceased to hold and the cost of the ponderous instruments of security finally overwhelmed its economy. Perhaps the closest demobilization in recent times was when the United States reduced its World War II force of 11.8 million troops so that by the Korean War, only 1.5 million troops were in uniform. But the American force reduction was one of jubilation; the one taking place here is accompanied by multiple miseries.
Paradoxically, it was in making their empire virtually invulnerable that the Soviets brought about its collapse. Too mighty to tempt any enemy into armed attack, the military also proved too large for the Soviet Union to sustain.
"I cannot think of any parallel to this kind of collapse," said Richard Pipes, a professor of Russian history at Harvard University. "Great empires usually wear down or are defeated in war, but this kind of implosion is unprecedented. But then the whole Soviet experiment was unprecedented."
The North Atlantic alliance, after four decades of grandiose spending and constant anxiety about the Soviet military buildup, no longer rates Moscow's nonnuclear forces even as a threat. But the former members of the Warsaw Pact have not lost their fear of the Russian forces to their east that occupied them at the end of World War II and have been forced to leave only in the last few years.
For their part, many senior Russian officers, humiliated by forced withdrawal from Afghanistan -- where a Soviet-installed Government was ultimately defeated -- and from Eastern Europe, do not hide their vexation at America's treatment of former Soviet allies like Iraq or its conduct as a self-appointed sheriff in Africa or Central America.
The unexpected depth of resistance in the military to Japan's demand for the return of the Kurile Islands reflected a feeling that the time had come to draw the line against concessions to former adversaries.
At home, torn by the breakup of the Soviet Union into forces with conflicting missions and loyalties, many officers deplore the collapse of the superpower they served and do not accept its dismantling as final. The hammer and sickle still adorn the army's seal just as the empire mentality previals.
"You can forgive Yeltsin our pauper's pay, the destroyed health of our wives and children, our eviction from warm houses virtually into open fields," said a senior officer recently withdrawn from the Baltics. "But we cannot forgive that lands conquered by our fathers and grandfathers, and our people living on them, have been given away for less than a pinch of tobacco."
In many regions, Russian troops have taken things into their own hands. With or without Moscow's blessing, they have taken sides in ethnic wars, in Azerbaijan, Armenia, Georgia, Moldova and Tajikistan, usually to prevent the regions' spinning further away from Moscow or to protect the interests of some 25 million Russians who have suddenly become foreigners in spinoff states.
"There is no real civilian control over the military today," Mr. Rogov said. "The end of 1991 saw the collapse and withering away of the Soviet state, and there is still no real Government in Russia: bureaucrats do what they like, without fear. In the military itself, you have a democracy of the generals."
Citing the protection of local Russian populations, senior commanders have defied their Government and have delayed the withdrawal of troops from Latvia and Estonia. A bitter tug-of-war rages between Russia and Ukraine over the Black Sea Fleet, the Crimean peninsula and the nuclear missiles stationed in Ukraine.
 
The Test
Parliament Attack Exposes Rifts

But nothing has demonstrated the ambivalent place of the military in Russia quite as starkly as the storming of the Parliament center on Oct. 4. The crunch of tank treads on Moscow streets -- the same tanks that balked at taking action in August 1991 -- was a brutal reminder of the military's ability to decide the balance of power in Moscow.
The "events of October" also showed the generals to be far from unified in their loyalties or views. Their initial reaction when Mr. Yeltsin cracked down on Parliament was to shut off the Defense Ministry's outside telephone lines and to declare neutrality.
In the immediate aftermath, the dominant reaction was relief -- that casualties had been limited, that the troops had obeyed. Distributing medals and promotions, Defense Minister Pavel S. Grachev praised the soldiers for "saving Russia from a tragedy that could have led to civil war."
But since then many reports have emerged of vacillation in the military and of heated midnight debates on the eve of the attack. Most startling was a recent interview in which Mr. Yeltsin openly accused General Grachev of wavering.
"My Defense Minister couldn't make up his mind," the President said. "There was a time of uncertainty when the troops did not arrive. Apparently he had been given too much responsibility, and he doubted whether the soldiers would follow his orders."
That statement added to questions that already had been raised about General Grachev's future. A rough, plain-speaking airborne commander and veteran of Afghanistan, the 44-year-old general was propelled into the Defense Ministry on the strength of refusing to attack the same Parliament center during the abortive Communist putsch in August 1991.
More broadly, the image of an army both capable of crushing a Parliament and of questioning commands was one likely to haunt politicians as long as Russia's politics remain in turmoil.
Lieut. Gen. Aleksandr I. Lebed, the commander of the 14th Army in Moldova, who in his outspokenness and license has become a symbol of the army's uncertain role, was blunt in his criticism of drawing the army into the fray.
"I believe that a grandiose crime has been committed," he said. "You could do anything, but not drag the army into this affair. Can you imagine the situation of the soldier who comes home today to Tula or Ryazan, and old women spit in his face? It all happened before, in 1917, when the nation split into White and Red. History teaches us nothing."
But that history taught precisely that a huge army suddenly stripped of mission and political guidance, distrusted by its people and denied sustenance, would inevitably be drawn into politics.
"The army should not be in politics, of course," said Dmitri A. Volkogonov, a retired general, military historian and adviser to Mr. Yeltsin. "But it is always an instrument of state, and if there is an interest to the state, it must declare its position."
In its first two tests, in August 1991 and in October, the army ultimately rallied to Mr. Yeltsin. But with Russia's political structures likely to be weak and chaotic for many years to come, the military -- and the other powerful institutions left in the lurch by the collapse of the Soviet Union, the K.G.B. and the state bureaucracy -- is certain to remain a huge presence in politics and a tempting ally for political intriguers.
It was noteworthy that on the eve of his crackdown on Parliament, Mr. Yeltsin almost doubled officers' pay and promoted a large number of generals and that immediately after the affair he lifted some educational deferments for the draft. And he has given in to military pressures by opposing membership of Eastern European countries in the North Atlantic alliance.
But many an officer acknowledged that there was something beyond money and rank he would like to recover: respect.
"It would be good if the image of the army changed now," mused Lieut. Col. Vladimir I. Goncharov, striding proudly among troops of the Tula Airborne Division, members of a showcase unit who had been brought into Moscow for the assault on Parliament and who were camped on the old Tushinsky airfield.
"It's been covered with black paint," he said of the army's image. "We're the oppressor, a drain on the economy. Now maybe they'll realize how many times we've stopped bloodletting. We demonstrated what we can do for the Government. Now it's for the Government and the President to stop taking our epaulets for granted."
 
The Collapse
A Proud Heritage Is Cast Aside
 Only a few years earlier, the tanks that shelled Parliament were among 70,000 that enforced Soviet rule on whole nations of Europe and Asia, and their officers were the standard-bearers of an empire.
The officer corps was a proud and pampered caste. More than half of those who entered military academies were typically sons and grandsons of military men, drawn by tradition, prestige, security and, by Soviet standards, good pay. Entry into military academies, especially elite ones like the Supreme Soviet Academy in Moscow or the airborne academy in Ryazan, was competitive.
Their heritage, actively nourished by the Soviets, stretched centuries back to grand czarist armies and audacious Cossack horsemen who had conquered Swedes, Poles, Germans and Turks, who swept across Siberia to the Far East, who had subdued the Caucasus and Central Asia and who drove Napoleon back to Paris and Hitler back to Berlin. The names of great commanders -- Aleksandr Nevsky, Aleksandr Suvorov, Mikhail Kutuzov, Georgi Zhukov -- rang with glory.
The military became the proudest creation of the Soviet state, an awesome muscle around which the Kremlin built its economy and its policy. It was the biggest military machine in history -- 5 million men under arms at its peak in 1988, according to the Institute of Strategic Studies in London. It had warships and submarines stalking the seven seas, manned spaceships permanently in orbit, enough nuclear missiles to pulverize the planet several times over.
Now that great force has shrunk to about 1.5 million, though estimates range from 1.2 million to 2 million. About 770,000 troops have been nationalized by other republics, but the rest have left the military. The remaining force is perceived in the West as no longer a mortal threat, but because it still has a large nuclear arsenal, there is always the potential for trouble in years ahead.
At home its prestige has plummeted, battered by its association with the Soviet dictatorship, by the debacle in Afghanistan, by the collapse of Soviet values, by revelations of brutal hazing, squalor and corruption. Its funds have been slashed, its discipline is in tatters, and its mission is vague.
The dismal state of morale was described in a recent issue of the magazine Nedelya by Yuri Deryugin, head of the Association of Military Sociologists. The number of deaths in the military was up, and the cause, he said, was often concealed behind diagnoses such as "severe cardiac insufficiency." In fact, practically every fourth death was a suicide.
Barracks crime was on the rise. In 10 months last year alone, Mr. Deryugin wrote, the army reported 16,000 crimes. Barracks hazing had been joined by barracks racketeering and an illicit traffic in arms and ammunition.
Seventy percent of officers did not believe that their units were capable of carrying out their missions, Mr. Deryugin found, and 76 percent of cadets said the main reason for quitting the military was the "rejection by the public of the military profession."
The greater openness in the press has also revealed many seamy aspects to the military that predated Communism's collapse, but were concealed from the public. The most widely publicized has been the brutal hazing of new recruits by older ones. A group called Soldiers' Mothers' Union says 6,000 conscripts died in 1992, including four naval conscripts who died of starvation and maltreatment on Russki Island off Vladivostok, home of the Pacific Fleet.
 
The Cutbacks
Draft Evasion Is Epidemic
 Military Commissariat No. 1 in Moscow's Gagarin District is supposed to draft 1,500 young men into the military this fall. The commander, Col. Mikhail M. Smirnov, candidly said he expected that he would not round up more than 1,000. Of these about a quarter will probably fail the physical exam, he said, a growing number because of alcohol or drug abuse or head injuries from fights.
"Thanks to the press and television, there's a negative image of the army that doesn't reflect reality," Colonel Smirnov loyally declared. "The youths are enormously scared. We've had mothers' committees; we've had demonstrations. When you restore order, they say, we'll give you our sons. I tell them that 28 youths were murdered in this district last year, and only one draftee from here died in the army, and that was an accident."
In the dimly lit halls, while the young men went through the physical, some of their mothers sat and waited, ready to challenge the doctors.
A young man named Aleksandr with shoulder-long hair emerged from the physical. He was drafted after he failed an exam at Moscow State University, he said, but he was sure that he would find a way out.
"If allergies don't work, then I'll be crazy," he said. "I have a psychiatrist friend who'll prepare me, and a surgeon I know makes scars on the wrists. Most of my friends got out that way. There have never been any military in my family, and I'm not about to break the tradition."
The General Staff's eagerness to increase the draft contrasts curiously with the Defense Ministry's stated intention to reduce the armed forces, and many critics and parents have argued that funneling in new draftees will simply forestall serious reductions in the bloated officer corps.
Valeria Nobodvorskaya, a champion of radical reform, argued in Moscow Pravda that young men would be doing their country more good by avoiding military service: "Refusing the draft, you would perform a useful service to the fatherland."
For their part, the generals say the military is 910,000 men under strength and sorely unbalanced. The problem will be compounded this fall when 580,000 draftees are discharged and far fewer inducted. Until Mr. Yeltsin lifted deferments for trade schools, the military expected to induct only 13 percent of 1.5 million draft-age men. In the past, military service for draft-age men was almost universal.
Even then, the experience of last spring's draft suggests that many young men will simply not show up. A recent poll showed that 80 percent of draft-age men do not want to serve in the army.
The chief Military Commissar for Moscow, Vladimir A. Bespalov, who is responsible for the draft, made a report to the Moscow city government in mid-November in which he said Moscow had met only 11 percent of its draft quota in the last two years.
By one estimate, the Russian Army by year's end could be a force of 630,000 officers and only 544,000 enlisted soldiers, although the force is structured differently from the American military, with officers performing some jobs that enlisted men do in the United States. Efforts to shift to better-paid volunteers who sign up under contract -- have met some success, and about 100,000 soldiers are now in service that way. But the Government does not have the funds to expand contract service now.
The shortage of enlisted men has already compelled officers to perform lowly chores, further adding to their discontent.
But the greatest source of unhappiness among officers is their eroding social benefits, and specifically the shortage of housing for officers returning from Eastern Europe or the Baltic states, where service had been most comfortable. Since 1989, 595,000 members of the armed forces have been pulled back into Russia, and an estimated 180,000 of these lack proper housing.
Paradoxically, the shortage of housing is also the major obstacle to reducing the army.
"By law we are to provide every retiring officer with housing," said Andrei Kokoshin, First Deputy Defense Minister and the highest ranking civilian in Russia's military establishment. "But we do not have this money. This is why we keep thousands and thousands of officers, because they have nowhere to go. They have neither work nor housing outside the military bases."
 
The Money
Trying to Convert Military Economy
 In the heyday of the Soviet Army, money was hardly a consideration. Throughout the cold war, Moscow's grand strategy was a replay of the closing days of World War II: huge tank armies racing across the German plains while vast thickets of nuclear missiles insured that the United States would never survive a nuclear war.
To support the strategy, Moscow channeled more than half of its industry, science and talent into a ravenous military industry, even as it drained away its wealth and ravaged its environment.
Dismantling that machine now poses probably Russia's greatest economic challenge.
Mikhail Maley, who quit as state adviser on conversion in protest over the lack of financing, says that as many as 7,000 enterprises in Russia alone were involved in some military work or other. Converting them to civilian production, he estimates, would take at least 15 years and $150 billion.
In the interim, the military has turned to arms exports to try to make ends meet, which has been neither successful for Russia nor satisfactory to the rest of the world.
Reports have only begun to emerge of the terrible damage wrought by the military on the land. In Russia alone, the military had 50,000 square miles of land, the area of New York State.
But even in the chilliest days of the cold war, there was a distinct gap between the Soviet Army's menacing image and reality.
The American military emphasized Russia's power to justify its own demands for spending. But former Pentagon officials now acknowledge that the Soviet military threat, formidable though it was, was not as great as many specialists believed.
Many of the Soviet Union's 180 army divisions were only partly staffed. Even in Eastern Europe, where the cream of the Russian force was based, commanders routinely exaggerated the readiness of their units.
"They lived a lie," a former American military officer said. "We probably had a better idea of their ability to go into combat than they did."
The fissures became evident even before Communism collapsed. The Afghanistan adventure badly undermined the image and self-confidence of the army. Coming to power in 1985, Mikhail S. Gorbachev began to curtail the Soviet military and its global reach.
Then in 1991 the Soviet Union collapsed. Suddenly the ideology that the officers had been taught to believe was discarded, and the Communist Party to which every officer above the rank of captain belonged was disbanded. Thousands of Russian troops suddenly found themselves in foreign and sometimes hostile states.
Above all, the huge military machine was suddenly in pieces. Huge chunks of the Soviet military -- troops, weapons, installations -- were nationalized by non-Russian republics.
On Nov. 2, President Yeltsin's Security Council, his main policy-planning committee for internal and external security, finally agreed on a new "military doctrine."
Not surprisingly, it proved to be less a blueprint for the future than a reflection of existing problems and realities.
The document also confirmed that Russia would not renew the Soviet pledge not to use nuclear weapons first. Russia seemed to want to remind potential aggressors, including the Chinese, that it still had 6,200 strategic nuclear warheads.
For conventional forces, the doctrine confirmed Russia's increased emphasis on a smaller army with highly mobile airborne and helicopter assault units, able to respond quickly to regional conflicts.
All these grand concepts and hopes, however, require money. "We have long-range plans, but the economic conditions are not conducive to realistic planners," Mr. Kokoshin, the Deputy Defense Minister, said.
NEXT: Reshaping the Russian military.

GRAPHIC: Photos: New conscripts lining up in Moscow this month to join an army with no clear mission, and little respect. (Reuters) (pg. 1); Some of the hundreds of decommissioned Soviet ships and submarines decaying at Russki Island without finances to salvage parts; Defense Minister Pavel S. Grachev, left, praised soldiers for "saving Russia from a tragedy that could have led to civil war." With him last year were General Konstantin I. Kobets, center, and the Armed Forces Commander, Marshal Yevgeny Shaposhnikov. (Photographs by Agence France-Presse) (pg. 18); Draft evasion in Russia is rampant, with young officers also quitting in droves. The balance of the force is getting top-heavy, with more generals than in Soviet days. In Moscow, cadets trained at an academy. (Klaus Reisinger/Black Star) (pg. 19)
 
Graph: "Too Many Officers"
 With the Russian Army unable to provide housing to send officers back to civilian life, and with many conscripts avoiding service, the force has become top-heavy with officers. Graphs shows ratios of officers to enlisted troops for the U.S. Army, the Former Soviet Army, and the present Russian Army. (Source: U.S. Government officials) (pg. 18)
 
Table: "Shifting Motives"
 The Russian military questioned 1,000 cadets in 1990 and again in 1993 on their motives for entering the service. The poll shows a marked decline in the most traditional kinds of motivation. (Source: Russian military) (pg. 18)
 
Maps: "1988: Soviet Troop Deployment" shows strategic positioning of the Soviet Army at that time; "1993: Russian Troop Deployment" shows strategic positioning of the Russian Army now. (pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RUSSIA RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

SUBJECT: SURVEYS AND SERIES; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; DRAFT AND RECRUITMENT (MILITARY) ARMED FORCES (92%); ARMIES (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); BUDGETS (70%); KOREAN WAR (70%); NAVAL VESSELS (68%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); 

PERSON: SCHMEMANN, SERGE

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



768 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1399 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON TO WEIGH PAYMENTS TO SPUR HIRING OF THE POOR

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 27

 BODY:
As part of its plan to revamp the welfare system, the Clinton Administration is considering giving new Federal subsidies to companies that hire or find jobs for welfare recipients.
One option is to have the Government pay employers directly, subsidizing the wages of welfare recipients. Another is for the Government to hire placement companies that would receive a fee for each person who obtained a job. 
 Previous efforts to use corporate subsidies have generally failed, and the discussion remains in a preliminary stage. But a confidential working paper circulated among Administration officials early last month proposed giving corporations up to $5,000 for each welfare recipient they hire.
 
Menu of Options
 The options are under consideration by a 32-member working group of Federal officials appointed by President Clinton to help overhaul the welfare system. The subsidy proposal is among a dizzying array of choices the group is trying to refine before presenting Mr. Clinton with a menu of options in the next few weeks.
The issues range from what kind of computer system might improve the collection of child support payments to whether Mr. Clinton should embark on a national crusade against teen-age pregnancy. Mr. Clinton, who prides himself on his grasp of welfare issues, is expected to immerse himself in many of the details.
Mr. Clinton campaigned on a pledge to "end welfare as we know it," by imposing a two-year limit on benefits. After that, he said, welfare recipients will have to work or perform community service.
 
How to Find the Jobs
 But he has not yet answered a paramount question: Where will the jobs come from? The discussion of subsidies gives new clues to the possible answer.
A record five million families now receive Aid to Families with Dependent Children, the main cash welfare program. A disproportionate number of them are headed by single women with few skills who live in areas of high unemployment.
Some welfare experts have argued that the only way to enforce a strict work requirement is for the Government to create a large number of public jobs or part-time community service positions.
But members of the group working on the President's proposal have called a large public jobs plan costly and politically unpopular, especially among unionized public employees who fear losing jobs.
"The most important thing is to build bridges to the private sector," said one member of the working group, speaking on the condition of anonymity. "We view public sector jobs only as a last resort."
The subsidies have been tried in experiments that date back as far as Lyndon B. Johnson, and some remain in effect. But they have largely been unsuccessful. Working group members are debating whether the subsidies need to be expanded, or simply promoted more aggressively.
The potential problems with subsidies have been flagged in a background paper prepared for the working group. One problem, according to the confidential document, is that subsidies can "stigmatize" welfare recipients seeking jobs and actually "hurt their long-term employment prospects."
Another potential problem is that subsidies "could be a windfall to employers for hiring the exact same people they were going to hire anyway." A third problem, the paper said, is that the policy "could simply result in the displacement of equally disadvantaged persons."
Administration officials acknowledge these problems and say the subsidies are only one potential part of a multipronged strategy. It would also include training programs, child care benefits and exhortations to social workers to change what working group members call "the culture of the welfare office" from one that writes checks to one that places people in jobs.
Nonetheless, the talk of subsidies has prompted some skepticism from Congress. "I hope they're not assuming that a lot of people will find jobs with that," said a welfare expert on Capitol Hill who called the subsidy efforts "one of the most outstanding failures of modern welfare policy."
Members of the working group concede they will have to create some public jobs or community service positions for people unable to find private work. But it is unclear how many of those positions they will propose or what they would pay.
Presidents Richard M. Nixon and Jimmy Carter also tried to overhaul welfare policy, only to bog down in the political swamp surrounding race, class and even sexual morality.
Now welfare rolls, which were stable for more than a decade, have grown by 25 percent in the last three years. The cost of the A.F.D.C. program has risen to about $23 billion a year, split by the states and Federal Government, and related expenses of food stamps and Medicaid for welfare families adds about $40 billion more.
Congressional Republicans have already put forward their own time-limit plan, and are threatening to accuse Mr. Clinton of backpedaling from his campaign promises if his is less stringent.
 
Tension Among Experts
 Members of the working group are looking for ways to impose a time limit without damaging the 14 million people who receive A.F.D.C., two-thirds of whom are children. At times, that tension has played out as a polite, though real, disagreement between the three co-leaders of the working group.
Bruce Reed, a White House domestic policy aide who weathered the campaign with Mr. Clinton, is said to be arguing for the toughest set of work requirements, with few exemptions and strict penalties.
The two other co-leaders, David T. Ellwood and Mary Jo Bane, are both assistant secretaries at the Department of Health and Human Services who once taught at Harvard. They have been quicker to voice concerns about preserving, or expanding, the social safety net.
Mr. Reed, for instance, said in a recent interview that the Administration might place a time limit not only on welfare but also on the community- service program that people enter after leaving the welfare rolls. But Mr. Ellwood has called such an idea "extremely unlikely."
Mr. Ellwood, meanwhile, is pushing to establish a child-support insurance program. This would have the Government make child support payments itself if it failed to collect the money from absent parents.
Such a program, he has said, would insure that poor children get the money they are owed, and it would give the Government a new incentive to track down fathers who fail to make payments.
Mr. Reed has not commented publicly on the idea. But his colleagues say he views it as a costly new entitlement program that might even encourage more families to break up.
"There are clearly different perspectives that are being brought to bear," Mr. Ellwood said. "But in contrast to earlier welfare reform groups, I've been struck by how much consensus and cooperation there's been."
 
Programs Already in Place
 Current law already provides tax credits and wage subsidies to employers who hire welfare recipients, but the subsidies are limited. Employers can get the wage subsidies only if they create jobs, for instance, not if they fill a job that becomes vacant.
Some members of the working group want to erase that restriction, but that would increase the chance of displacing other low-income workers.
Under a separate law, the Targeted Jobs Tax Credit, employers who hire welfare recipients can reduce their tax bill by up to $2,400 a year. But one famous study of the program found that welfare recipients who offered employers the tax breaks actually had a harder time finding jobs.
One of the other job-placement models the Administration is examining is America Works, a private New York City corporation that receives a state payment of up to $5,300 for every welfare recipient it places in a job. Some working group members want to see this strategy expanded.
Peter Cove, the company's founder, said the method succeeds in part by staying in close touch with recipients during their first few months of work. That is when child care crises or other problems often arise, he said, prompting people to quit.
Mr. Cove argues that expanded economic incentives might work, but only if accompanied by a similar kind of intensive case management.
"In general there is a feeling on the part of the private sector that if you're giving me an incentive to hire this person, you're probably giving me a problem," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET EMPLOYMENT (91%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); FAMILY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (72%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (67%); 

PERSON: DEPARLE, JASON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



769 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: In Detroit's Despair, Mayor Sees Hope

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Nov. 27

 BODY:
Dennis Wayne Archer glanced out the window of his 40th-floor law office and suggested that conventional thinking about one of America's most troubled cities was wrong.
"Detroit is going to be a world-class city," he declared. But he then acknowledged that reaching that goal, after he becomes Detroit's Mayor, would not be easy. 
 White flight and the decline of the automobile industry as an employer have drained a third of the city's population and 40 percent of its jobs since the early 1970's.
But Mr. Archer, who will become the city's first new Mayor in 20 years on Jan. 1, his 52d birthday, has a lifetime of experience in overcoming long odds.
 
Up From Poverty
 He worked his way up from a boyhood of rural poverty in Cassopolis, Mich., so desperate that he said he sometimes went to bed at night with only sassafras tea in his stomach. Now, Mr. Archer said in an interview Friday, he believes that "our No. 1 asset is our people."
Mr. Archer, a State Supreme Court Justice until three years ago, won 57 percent of the vote on Nov. 3, defeating Sharon McPhail, an assistant county prosecutor who was backed by the outgoing five-term Mayor, Coleman A. Young.
On Friday, after his usual daily seven-mile run through the streets, Mr. Archer pledged over two onion-laden chili hot dogs to change the city's negative image and "demonstrate some very positive solutions" for the crime and unemployment that have ravaged Detroit.
 
Pledge to End Cronyism
 Mr. Archer said he would change the way the city does business by ending cronyism, and he promised a better relationship between Detroit, which now has barely a million people, and its far more affluent suburbs, home to more than three million people.
While Mr. Young, now 75 and ailing, gave pride to black residents as the first black Mayor here, relations between the city, now nearly 80 percent black, and the suburbs, 95 percent white, have become increasingly polarized.
Mr. Archer said that among other things he hoped to merge the city and suburban bus systems, possibly as a step toward some sort of metropolitan mass transit system. This could help with economic development, he said, because while most of the new jobs in this region are in the suburbs, many potential workers who live in the city have no means of getting to them.
 
'Background of Poverty'
 Mr. Archer said that Detroit's economic problems are grim. Nearly a third of all city residents, he said, live in "a background of poverty," including nearly half of all children. He estimated that unemployment was as high as "23 to 24 percent of the labor force, with many more underemployed."
Mr. Archer said that to reduce poverty and end economic decline, the city must attract businesses that can provide jobs. And that will partly depend on measures to combat crime, which Mr. Archer said was "the No. 1 problem confronting the city."
He said he planned to put "276 to 380 police now behind desks back on the street, in the neighborhoods, walking the beat."
 
Police Presence Needed
 "Our main problem is that we do not provide a police presence in the neighborhoods," he explained, even though the central part of the city is patrolled "so thoroughly that it is, in fact, one of the safest downtowns in America."
Another of Mr. Archer's anti-crime priorities is the installation of metal detectors in schools to keep guns out. "Education is particularly important to me, and school has to be safe," said the Mayor-elect, who met his wife, Judge Trudy Archer of District Court, when both were elementary school teachers.
Detroit's major police union endorsed Mr. Archer, but police officials have mostly been silent on his crime-fighting plans. The Mayor-elect said he had not yet decided whether to reappoint Chief Stanley Knox.
 
Plagued by Scandal
 The 2,700-member force has been plagued by scandal. Mr. Knox's predecessor, William Hart, was sent to jail last year in a fraud case. Last month, two white police officers were convicted of murder in the fatal beating of a black motorist, Malice Green.
Along with increasing the police presence in neighborhoods, Mr. Archer said he hopes to make them more habitable by encouraging the development of more local retailing. He said he wants to lure large supermarkets and chain stores, as well as increase the number of small, neighborhood strip, mall-type complexes. He said it pained him that Detroit residents now spend more money in the suburbs than in the city.
"I think the city of Detroit is ripe for development, and if a person in Omaha ever had a dream of opening a hardware store somewhere, this is the place and this is the time," Mr. Archer said. The new Mayor said the city owned enough vacant land "to build several developments and a golf course with a lake."
 
Supported by Business
 Mr. Archer, whose campaign was heavily supported by business, said he has been gratified by offers of help since the election. "If only half the pledges come true, we'll be in pretty good shape," he said, noting that he already knew of one company planning to move into the city.
Detroit's mayor has only 150 municipal jobs he can fill directly, but Mr. Archer said he wanted to recruit the best people he could. He indicated that he would especially welcome inquiries from workers in the outgoing administrations of Gov. Jim Florio in New Jersey and Gov. L. Douglas Wilder in Virginia.
"They would find an exciting challenge," he said. "To be part of Detroit's turnaround will be a unique opportunity for anybody, one I wouldn't think anybody could turn down."
And, taking note of the retirement this year of Mayor Tom Bradley of Los Angeles and the recent defeat of Mayor David N. Dinkins of New York, Mr. Archer pointed out that Detroit becomes "the largest city in the United States with an African-American Mayor."
Mr. Archer, illustrating what he hopes will become a contagious optimism, said that his sister-in-law, Beth DunCombe, a lawyer who does not live in Detroit, had been looking at some property in the city. The day after Mr. Archer's election, the seller notified Ms. DunCombe that the price was going up.
"They said they thought property values were going to rise," Mr. Archer said. "I think that's a pretty hopeful sign."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dennis Wayne Archer, Mayor-elect of Detroit. (The Detroit News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (95%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;DETROIT (MICH) UNITED STATES (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (95%); DETROIT, MI, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: MAYORS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); SUBURBS (88%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); TRENDS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); INTERVIEWS (67%); CHILDREN (67%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (66%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (65%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (50%); 

PERSON: ARCHER, DENNIS NORM COLEMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



770 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 17; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: U.S. DIPLOMAT SEES HIS RELEASE SOON

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: SANA, Yemen, Nov. 27

 BODY:
The United States Embassy received a message today from a kidnapped American diplomat saying he was being well treated by the desert tribesmen who abducted him, the police said.
The diplomat, Haynes Mahoney, also told the embassy and his family that he expected to be freed in a day or two, police officials said. 
 The officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, would not say how the message was conveyed, and embassy officials declined to comment.
Mr. Mahoney, who headed the United States Information Service in Yemen, was abducted Thursday night by five gunmen who intercepted his car in Sana, a block away from a hotel where he had attended a reception.
 
First Diplomat Kidnapped
 He was the first diplomat to be kidnapped by tribesmen in conflict with the Government in the last two years. Dozens of foreigners have been abducted but freed unharmed.
The Interior Ministry acknowledged on Friday that the tribe holding Mr. Mahoney had made "demands of the Government," but did not identify the tribe. The ministry said security forces had located the tribe's hideout in a region about 40 miles northeast of Sana, the capital.
The kidnapping took place at a time of high political tension between President Ali Abdullah Saleh and Vice President Ali Salem al-Baidh, the formerleader of South Yemen.
Yemen and Southern Yemen were unified three years ago. Mr. Baidh has complained about the pace of integration, the exclusion of his supporters from influential Government posts and corruption that has undermined the economy of Yemen, which lies at the southern tip of the Arabian Peninsula.
Since unification, violence has afflicted this country of about 14 million people. In December, bombings in two hotels in Aden, the former southern capital, killed three people and narrowly missed American troops who were housed nearby as part of United Nations operations in Somalia.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Exile Becomes Mediator
 DAMASCUS, Syria, Nov. 27 (Reuters) -- A former President of Southern Yemen said today that he was ending seven years of exile after Yemeni leaders sought his mediation in one of the most serious political crisises since Yemen and Southern Yemen became united in 1990.
"If this crisis remains unsolved, then this could lead to a civil war," the former President, Ali Nasser Mohammed, said in an interview. "I was contacted two days ago by President Ali Abdullah Saleh, who requested me officially to play the role of a mediator."
Mr. Mohammed said leaders of the Yemen Socialist Party of Vice President Ali Salem al-Baidh welcomed the idea in principle.
A dispute between President Saleh's General People's Congress and the Socialist Party over political and economic programs came to the open when Vice President Baidh retreated to his stronghold in Aden, paralyzing the central Government.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: YEMEN (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); SYRIA (79%); SOMALIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE; UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (USIA) UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (84%); UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE; UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (USIA) UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (84%); UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YEMEN YEMEN (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); SYRIA (79%); SOMALIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-YEMEN KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (91%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (91%); POLITICS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); BOMBINGS (63%); 

PERSON: MAHONEY, HAYNES R 3D

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



771 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Won't Discuss Embargo Terms With Iraq

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 27

 BODY:
The United States has refused to discuss its terms for lifting the oil embargo against Iraq directly with Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz during his current visit here, although representatives of the other 14 Security Council members have met informally with him, a senior Administration official said today.
The official said there was no reason for the United States to meet with Mr. Aziz because he "already knows exactly where we stand." The official added that the United States would not consider lifting the ban on Iraqi oil sales until "we have a proven track record" of Iraqi compliance with the long-term monitoring of its military industries and Baghdad has complied with the Security Council's other disarmament demands. 
 Diplomats say that the United States believes the combination of a tight economic embargo and virtual political isolation is finally forcing President Saddam Hussein into full compliance with the Security Council's disarmament plan for Iraq, and that it does not want to do anything that might appear to soften that pressure.
 
Message for North Korea
 But officials also point out that the Clinton Administration wants to avoid any gesture that North Korea might interpret as a weakening of its resolve to halt the spread of nuclear weapons at a time when it is pressing that country to end its covert nuclear program.
During their meetings with Mr. Aziz,most other Security Council members have told him they will be guided mainly by the findings of the special commission set up to oversee Iraq's disarmament in deciding when Baghdad has fully met the council's demands, officials say.
Once the commission certifies that Iraq has given up its weapons of mass destruction and is allowing arms inspectors to monitor its key industries to insure it does not make the weapons again, the Security Council may lift the embargo, although it will still control what goods Iraq is allowed to import until it is satisfied with "the policies and practices" of the Baghdad Government.
Following Iraq's decision on Friday to accept this long-term industrial monitoring, Mr. Aziz and Rolf Ekeus of Sweden, the head of the special commission, plan to draft a public statement setting out what Iraq must still do to be in full compliance.
 
Missing Iraqi Records
 A big difficulty facing the special commission is that Iraq says it has burned many of its records, including accounts of research into chemical and biological weapons.
While inspectors have found some records bearing on Iraq's efforts to produce highly enriched uranium, the Iraqi Government also claims it has destroyed most of the blueprints for the nuclear bomb it hoped to manufacture.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); 

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (75%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (74%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (70%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL; AZIZ, TARIQ (DEPUTY PRIME MIN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



772 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: Service Scholarships Face Uncertain Future

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CINCINNATI, Nov. 27

 BODY:
On a recent night at the Homeward Bound Runaway Shelter in Covington, Ky., Bill Sargent made dinner, supervised cleanup and shepherded a dozen teen-agers to a session on how to keep a budget. Later, he took tennis balls and bowling pins out of a gym bag and began juggling them. A few youths huddled around a video game, while others also began tossing balls into the air and clamoring for Mr. Sargent's approval and attention.
Neither he nor his college think of it as a direct exchange, but as a service fellow at Xavier University here, Mr. Sargent must work at least 10 hours a week to receive a full scholarship worth more than $16,000 a year. 
 While President Clinton's National Service Program, which Congress approved in September, will create an opportunity for students to finance their educations through community service, many colleges around the country have long had programs that tie financial aid to volunteer activity.
Not all educators support this concept, though, because such financing is open to all regardless of their parents' economic status. The educators see it as offering scarce scholarship money to students who might not need it.
Xavier has one of the most sweeping service scholarship programs. "I don't know of anything comparable," said the Rev. James E. Hoff, president of Xavier.
Now in its fifth year, the service fellow program has 18 participants. Father Hoff called the program "an integral part of our mission as a Catholic, Jesuit university" in educating an undergraduate population of about 3,900 for service to others.
At Hampshire College in Amherst, Mass., community service has been part of the academic program since the college opened in 1970. Its president, Gregory S. Prince Jr., said colleges and universities around the country should use Mr. Clinton's program to involve their students directly in community service.
But some organizations, including the United Negro College Fund, say that "a national service scholarship available to anyone, including Lee Iacocca's kid, means less funds are available to help a coal miner's daughter go to college," said Sandra Gregg, the fund's communications director.
Ms. Gregg said that the United Negro College Fund had difficulty supporting Federal financing of a national service program while programs like the Pell grants, which help nearly five million low and middle-income students, continue to receive less than the authorized financing.
That the national service program has been cast by the Clinton Administration and others as a form of financial aid is unfortunate, said David Merkowitz, director of public affairs for the American Council on Education, a nonprofit association of public and private colleges.
 
'Really Rather Meager'
 "As a financial aid program, national service will not and cannot be very important," he said. "The amount of money it will provide as either incentive or reward for its participants -- $4,750 for one year of service or $9,500 for two years -- is really rather meager compared to the need that's out there and to the total amount of money that is used by the Federal Government for financial aid."
Total spending for the national service grants would be $1.5 billion over three years, while the Pell grant program receives $6.3 billion a year.
Administrators at Xavier say that their program has been successful because its mission is clearly defined. To qualify for the service fellowship, which is the university's top scholarship, students must be in the top 10 percent of their high school class, have high admissions test scores and show a commitment to service.
Mr. Sargent, a senior who is a chemistry major, is required to work 10 hours a week as a service fellow, but says he often puts in from 20 to 25 hours at the runaway shelter. "Sometimes I'd rather come here on a Friday night than go out partying with my friends," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (73%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: XAVIER UNIVERSITY (84%); XAVIER UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: XAVIER UNIVERSITY (84%); XAVIER UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); KENTUCKY, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (73%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FINANCES; VOLUNTEERS; NATIONAL SERVICE SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (67%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (65%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (64%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



773 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: COLLEGES REVERSE DIVESTMENT PLANS

 BODY:
For many college students of the 1980's, boycotting corporations like Coca-Cola, I.B.M., Ford and others with subsidiary interests in South Africa was taking a stand against apartheid, and the groundswell led many colleges and universities to divest themselves of stock in companies with ties to South Africa.
Since the late 1970's, 155 colleges have sold $5 billion in such stocks, out of portfolios totaling $300 billion, according to the Africa Fund, a nonprofit, anti-apartheid group based in New York. 
 Now, in the wake of Nelson Mandela's recent call for American reinvestment and the country's new constitution ending white rule, several colleges have reversed their divestment policies, and others have said they will do so soon.
 
'Very Responsible Course'
 At Howard University, the nation's largest historically black college, a committee composed of students, trustees and faculty and staff members has been meeting weekly for several months on the reinvestment issue. Howard's investment portfolio in 1978 included $8 million in companies with ties to South Africa, the Africa Fund said.
"What has happened here has been a little bit piecemeal," said James Fletcher, Howard's chief financial officer. "But we hope to set a very responsible course and hopefully come up with something that can be a model for other universities and nonprofit organizations."
Many university officials say they are being cautious about reinvesting.
"We were concerned that we not do this in a way that was incomprehensible," said William D. Adams, secretary of Wesleyan University, which recently decided to rescind its divestment policy.
Students have generally responded with approval, Mr. Adams said. "I haven't heard of any dissatisfaction, although there's concern and worry about what the ultimate shape of the government and society will be in South Africa," he said.
Angela Troth, a student at Connecticut College and a representative to a committee that is seeking a campus consensus before making a recommendation on reinvestment, noted that South Africa still faced many racial divisions. An estimated 10,000 people, mostly blacks, have died in political violence in South Africa since February 1990, and elections for a multiracial government are five months away.
 
'Investigate the Issue'
 "We really don't know what's going to happen in April, and the situation over there is pretty unstable," Ms. Troth said, referring to the election scheduled for April 27. "We want to investigate the issue and make sure that what we are doing is morally correct."
No comprehensive study of the number of colleges considering a reversal of divestment has been conducted, but officials at several large universities say they see reinvestment as both inevitable and imminent. Companies with ties to South Africa include some of the most profitable corporations.
Richard Knight, a spokesman for the Africa Fund, said universities should use the investments to try to improve the economic conditions of blacks in South Africa.
"I think it would be a shame if reinvestment came to simply mean that colleges will now feel free to invest in shares of companies that do business in South Africa," Mr. Knight said. "It really does nothing for South Africa for shares of I.B.M. to go up a little bit."
"What is really needed," he added, "is investment in South Africa that develops the economy and provides opportunities for those people who have been historically disenfranchised."
 
Keeping Eye on Companies
 Talk of colleges reinvesting began nearly two years ago, after the South African Government met with the African National Congress and other black organizations to begin negotiating the transition to a multiracial government.
A study last year by the Investor Responsibility Research Center, a Washington-based organization that studies public policy issues that affect corporate investors, found that fewer than half of the 50 wealthiest universities had formally begun to discuss reinvestment. But the move toward reinvesting picked up momentum after Mr. Mandela's speech to the United Nations in September, in which he called for an end to his country's economic isolation.
The Rev. Leon H. Sullivan, an American civil rights leader whose statement of principles in 1977 became the benchmark by which responsible corporate investment in South Africa was measured, said that while collegiate divestment was crucial to the anti-apartheid movement in the 80's, reinvestment may be even more important in the 90's.
"Even with apartheid coming to an end, the vestiges of apartheid will remain for years to come," Mr. Sullivan said. "We have to keep our eye and hand on companies that are going to do business in South Africa. Because otherwise, in time you will not have legal apartheid anymore, but you will have economic apartheid."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%); 

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (96%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (58%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (83%); AFRICA ACTION (83%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOWARD UNIVERSITY (83%); AFRICA ACTION (83%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH AFRICA SOUTH AFRICA (96%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; STOCKS AND BONDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES DIVESTITURES (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); BOYCOTTS (89%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); BONDS (71%); ELECTIONS (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); EXECUTIVES (51%); 

PERSON: MANDELA, NELSON NELSON ROLIHLAHLA MANDELA (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



774 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: Reporter's Notebook;
Will Blast Jury Drown In a Flood of Minutiae?

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
In a trial where minutiae have often seemed to reign supreme, almost a full morning of the World Trade Center bombing trial last week was devoted to a close examination of a minor traffic accident in New Jersey that took place a month before the trade center explosion and involved two suspects in the case.
One was Mohammed A. Salameh, the lead defendant, and the other Ramzi Ahmed Yousef, who left the country the day of the explosion and whose whereabouts are unknown. 
 The point of the testimony seemed to be that since Mr. Salameh and Mr. Yousef were in the same car, they must have been doing things together. (It had already been established that the two men were roommates in an apartment in Jersey City.) Witnesses also threw the net over a third man indicted in the case, Mahmud Abouhalima, who, according to a nurse, picked up Mr. Yousef when he was discharged from the hospital after recovering from injuries he suffered in the accident.
Getting the association among the three men into the record was of obvious importance to the prosecution, which has been spinning a web of circumstantial evidence around the four men on trial, trying to convince the jury that a myriad of small details can lead only to the conclusion that the defendants conspired to blow up the trade center.
Yet the prosecutors seem to be engaging in a certain evidentiary overkill, which raises the question of whether the prosecution is introducing too much undifferentiated detail into their reconstruction of the plot.
The main witness in the accident was a New Jersey police officer, Fred Weinmann, who was on the stand for an hour. Government prosecutors asked him to describe the accident in great detail, the direction the car was going, how the driver ran into trouble, the names of the streets that crossed at that intersection. They even put an aerial photograph of the area in front of him so he could put a colored sticker on the site of the accident.
Given the fact that Mr. Salameh is not on trial for reckless driving, it was difficult to see what purpose the sticker on the map served. And, since nobody in the United States Attorney's office is willing to talk about the case to inquiring reporters, it is not possible to find out whether there is more method to the tedium.
Is the tedious meticulousness of the prosecution, which by the end of the eighth week of testimony had called 110 witnesses and had dozens still to go, helping or harming its case?
Certainly, a number of important pieces of the puzzle have dropped into place. The prosecution has shown that three of the defendants, Mr. Salameh, Mr. Abouhalima and Nidal A. Ayyad, knew one another. It has shown some of them opening bank accounts together, renting storage lockers together and ordering chemicals suspiciously like the chemicals often used in improvised explosives.
Mr. Salameh has been established as the renter of a Ford Econoline van whose twisted parts were pulled from the trade center wreckage and that, investigators say, carried the bomb that on Feb. 26 killed six people and blew a hole five stories deep beneath the twin towers in lower Manhattan.
Still, seemingly worried that some important points might be lost in the flood of detail, the presiding judge in the case, Kevin T. Duffy, has warned the four prosecutors that their presentation is unfolding too slowly.
"It's one thing to bore the jury," Judge Duffy intoned at the end of the court session last Monday, "but when you're boring the judge, you're in deep trouble."
Attention to Detail
It came out just before the Thanksgiving break that Mr. Salameh was in a second accident, less than a month after the first, but that information, while certainly suggesting that you would not want Mr. Salameh as your taxi driver, seemed also to have only a vague connection with the case.
The second accident was revealed in the prosecution's questioning of Sarah O'Brien, the manager of travel services of the Allied-Signal Corporation. Ms. O'Brien testified about three occasions, Feb. 15 and 23 and March 9, on which she arranged rental cars for Mr. Ayyad, an Allied-Signal chemical engineer.
Again, it seemed as if the jurors might be able to decide the case without knowing some information Ms. O'Brien read, like the rental contract numbers and the license plate numbers of the cars rented, or the times the cars were picked up and returned.
Again, even if some of the detail seemed unnecessary, the point of the testimony seemed to be to establish connections -- this time the fact that Mr. Ayyad seems to have rented cars for use by Mr. Salameh.
Another interpretation was also possible, however. Mr. Salameh's defense lawyer, Robert E. Precht, asked Ms. O'Brien if the normal car rental company, knowing of his atrocious driving record, would rent again to Mr. Salameh. Mr. Precht's point seemed to be that his client was such a bad driver that no reasonable terrorists would have entrusted him with any significant task involving the operation of a motor vehicle -- such as renting a van.
Sound Problems
In September when the jury was still being selected, Judge Duffy warned: "I have a bad habit of mumbling." It was not an idle statement.
There are microphones all over the courtroom, and most of the testimony is amplified enough to be audible to courtroom observers, or at least 80 percent of it is. Everything else, especially dialogues between the judge and the lawyers, is mostly inaudible.
This is in part because the sound system is simply not very good. It is also because some of the trial participants, especially the judge, do not bother to speak into the microphone. And the courtroom itself has the acoustics of a railroad station waiting room, amplifying extraneous noises like the rustling of papers or the coughing of an observer but suppressing the human voice.
But the sound problems seem to be worsened by the fact that the courtroom has a higher percentage of mumblers than would be found in the public at large. Once there was even a bit of dialogue between the judge and the lead prosecutor, J. Gilmore Childers, over who mumbled more.
"You're mumbling again," the judge told Mr. Childers.
"I hope it's not contagious," Mr. Childers replied.
"Where you're concerned, it's an epidemic," rejoined the judge.
None of this exchange was audible to the courtroom observers, since each side's accusations of mumbling were mumbled by the accuser. That portion of the trial record, fortunately for posterity, is available in the official transcript of the trial, for those willing to search it out.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TERRORISM; TRIALS; BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) EVIDENCE (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (89%); WITNESSES (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); CONSPIRACY (78%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); EXPLOSIVES (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); TERRORISM (73%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, RICHARD

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



775 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 58; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: Marian Logan, 73, A Civil Rights Aide And Cabaret Singer

BYLINE: By RICHARD D. LYONS

 BODY:
Marian Bruce Logan, a civil rights advocate, former New York City Commissioner of Human Rights and a cabaret singer in her youth, died on Thursday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Medical Center. She was 73.
The cause was emphysema, her son, Warren Arthur Logan, said. 
 Mrs. Logan was an associate of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and a campaign aide for several political figures, including Nelson A. Rockefeller, Robert F. Kennedy and Robert F. Wagner.
Mayor Abraham D. Beame appointed Mrs. Logan to head the Commission on Human Rights in 1977. During her two-year tenure she worked to stop the practice of redlining, by which banks and savings and loan institutions refuse to make mortgage loans to residents of certain areas.
 
Efforts on West Side
 Along with her husband, Dr. Arthur C. Logan, a surgeon, she was involved in efforts to stabilize the West Side as an integrated community during urban-renewal efforts there.
Mrs. Logan was a socially prominent fund-raiser who generated financial backing for both national and local civil-rights issues and causes, particularly those of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference.
Mrs. Logan was at one time the only Northern board member of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference. She also raised money for the Congress of Racial Equality and the Urban League.
In 1971 the Citizens Union presented Dr. and Mrs. Logan with awards for outstanding public service for their prominence in campaigning for civil rights and better public health.
During her career in show business she sang using the stage name Marian Bruce. In the 1940's and 1950's she starred in the first all-black show to be presented in a Miami Beach nightclub. She also sang in Europe.
Mrs. Logan's husband died previously. She is survived by her son, who lives in Manhattan, and a sister, Esther Harris of Philadelphia.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marian Bruce Logan. (The New York Times, 1977)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITIZENS UNION BANCORP (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (77%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); CIVIL RIGHTS (94%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); SAVINGS & LOANS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE (57%); 

PERSON: LOGAN, MARIAN BRUCE; LYONS, RICHARD D MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



776 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 53; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: From Drugs and Homelessness Back to Self-Respect: One Man's Round Trip

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

 BODY:
When Christopher Phillips first became homeless, he spent his days riding the No. 2 subway line from end to end and his nights sleeping fitfully in the Clark Street Station in Brooklyn.
At first, he tried to doze sitting up, he said, so people would think he was waiting for a train. But the tactic was as much for his own state of mind. "I didn't think of myself as homeless at first," Mr. Phillips said recently at a Queens Y.M.C.A., where a modest room recently became his home after nearly two years on the streets, when crack cocaine controlled his life. 
 "I just started riding up and down all day because I didn't have anything else to do," said Mr. Phillips, who is 46 years old.
He told himself that he could always return to the Bronx apartment of his ex-girlfriend's grandmother, where he had slept for several months. But in more sober moments, he knew that she wouldn't have him back.
 
A $200-a-Day Habit
 Mr. Phillips had lost his job of 10 years as head of security at a Food Plaza grocery store in Manhattan because of crack addiction. To support his $200-a-day habit, he began to steal, mostly from the backs of trucks as they were unloaded at delicatessens and supermarkets, a racket he had stopped dozens of times as a security guard.
"I would steal anything," he said, lacing his fingers over his face as his voice broke. "Anything I could get my hands on and resell: cases of fruit juice, diapers, infant milk. None of it was food for me; it all just meant money for crack."
From 1991 to early 1992, Mr. Phillips was a textbook example of how a person can become homeless in New York City, where 86,000 individuals passed through public shelters last year as a result of unemployment, illness or drug use. More than 5,600 families were housed in city shelters this year, the highest number ever, officials said.
Mr. Phillips is one of the fortunate few who have managed to beat the odds. With a dogged determination to salvage his life, and with a boost from the Community Service Society of New York, one of seven charities helped by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, he now has a job, a roof over his head and new hope.
 
Help for Thousands
 Today, the Neediest Cases Fund begins its 82d annual appeal for donations to help people like Mr. Phillips and thousands of others. While economic pressures may be easing in other parts of the country, their effects are still being felt in New York City, increasing the demand for privately run human services as donations to charities fail to keep pace with demand.
"The seven charities dependent on the Neediest Cases Fund are counting more on our campaign this year than in any time since the Depression," said Arthur Gelb, president of The New York Times Foundation, which administers the fund. "The lingering effect of the recession in the Northeast is extending the need for assistance to the ranks of the lower middle class, where more and more families are requiring relief from charities faced with a dramatic drop in contributions."
During last year's campaign, nearly 14,000 donors from around the world helped raise $4,469,034.47, the second-highest total ever. But the figure represented a drop of more than 12 percent from the previous year's contributions.
The idea for the campaign was born during a Christmas Day encounter in 1911 between Adolph S. Ochs, then the publisher of The New York Times, and a destitute man, an orphan from Denmark, who asked him for money to find shelter for the night. Mr. Ochs gave the man money for shelter and clothes. Several days later, he was given a job in the newspaper's circulation department.
The encounter inspired Mr. Ochs to have a reporter write about the city's 100 neediest cases the next year. The publisher saw the campaign as a way to encourage good will throughout the city and to improve understanding of the plight of the destitute. The first appeal, which lasted for nine days, collected $3,630.88 that was distributed to three charities.
 
Direct Aid to Charities
 In the ensuing years, the campaign ceased to focus on just 100 cases, as poverty became too widespread to reduce to so few examples. Dozens of other newspapers in the United States and abroad developed similar campaigns.
This year's drive will run through Feb. 28. As in the past, The Times will pay for all overhead expenses so that the contributions can be given directly to the seven charities.
In Mr. Phillips's case, support from the Neediest Cases Fund helped him to help himself when he finally decided to fight his addiction.
"I felt like I had reached the end of my life," he said. "I felt awful talking to people with dirty tennis shoes and ripped pants, smelling bad. I couldn't look anybody in the eye. Once you're taking drugs, nobody respects you, especially you."
Although he successfully completed a drug treatment program in upstate New York, Mr. Phillips returned to the city with no money, no place to stay and no job. For several weeks he was precariously close to slipping back down the distance he had climbed.
Having never before been unemployed, he knew nothing about the public assistance system. When he went to look for a job -- as a hospital orderly, a bicycle messenger, a porter -- he was always asked where he lived. "I'd have to tell them I lived in a shelter," he said. "I knew I wouldn't get the job. Without the job, no place to live."
With help from the Community Service Society, he was able to get $215 from the city to find housing, without the usual 45-day wait. He was able to get a room in the Y.M.C.A. The Society also helped him get help from an employment service. And when he finally found a job, on his own, with a bottling company on Long Island, the Society bought him the pair of black work boots that allowed him to start with no delay.
 
Regaining Self-Respect
 Mr. Phillips said the most important thing the Society helped him regain was self-respect. "I was thinking no one cared. No one's reaching out to help me, but they did," he said. "Now I have money and I have a place to lay my body and I'm proud of that."
By early next year, he said, he expects to move into an apartment of his own. For now, he is content to take each new step slowly. "I don't want to hang my hat higher than I can reach it just yet," he said, smiling.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "I felt like I had reached the end of my life," said Christopher Phillips, at a Y.M.C.A. in Queens where he is aided by the Neediest Cases Fund. (Steve Berman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND HOMELESSNESS (90%); COCAINE (89%); CHARITIES (87%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (78%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (68%); DISMISSALS (66%); INFANT FORMULA (63%); ANIMAL WELFARE (61%); CHARITABLE GIVING (60%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, RANDY; PHILLIPS, CHRISTOPHER

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



777 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 1; Page 58; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: Marvin Feldman, Retired Head Of Fashion Institute, Dead at 66

BYLINE: By RICHARD D. LYONS

 BODY:
Marvin Feldman, who was president of the Fashion Institute of Technology for 21 years during which its enrollment and academic scope increased dramatically, died on Friday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 66 and had lived in retirement in Newport, R.I.
The cause of death was cancer, said Loretta Lawrence Keane, the school's director of college relations. 
 Mr. Feldman headed the institute from 1971 until his retirement last year and was the longest-serving president of the school, which is in Manhattan's garment district. During his tenure the college's enrollment rose to 12,000 from 5,000, the selection of courses went up greatly and the number of buildings went to eight from two.
The major fields of study now include interior design, museum studies, fashion design, toy design and photography.
Under his direction, the institute, which is affiliated with the State University of New York system, began awarding bachelor's and master's degrees, as well as the associate degree.
 
Advocate of Aid Programs
 F.I.T. also set up the Advanced Apparel Manufacturing Technology Demonstration Facility, which includes a large collection of computer-driven equipment, and, in 1983, a Small Business Center that provides services and support for entrepreneurs.
Two months ago the school renamed its Administration and Technology Center the Marvin Feldman Center.
"Marvin Feldman's vitality and wisdom were the primary reasons behind the success of F.I.T.," said Peter G. Scotese, the chairman of the school's board of trustees.
Over the years Mr. Feldman was a vocal advocate for Federal aid for programs that would help both vocational training and small business.
Early in his career Mr. Feldman was a secondary school educator and administrator in California, and from 1964 to 1969 he was an officer of the Ford Foundation's Division of International Education and Research. He served in a variety of capacities in Washington in the Office of Education and the Office of Economic Opportunity.
Before his retirement, Mr. Feldman had been a longtime resident of Montclair, N.J. He is survived by his wife, Dorothy Feldman of Newport, and two sons, Brian and Michael.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marvin Feldman. (The New York Times, 1985)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); 

CITY: NEWPORT, RI, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK SYSTEMS EXCHANGE CORP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); APPAREL MFG (70%); FOUNDATIONS (68%); INTERIOR DECORATING (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); TOYS & GAMES (68%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (66%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (51%); 

PERSON: FELDMAN, MARVIN; LYONS, RICHARD D ANN LIVERMORE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



778 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Clinton on Crime

 BODY:
Spotting a White House political offensive is a lot like spotting a tidal wave. All you have to do is look offshore and watch for a big bump. By that standard, it takes no special genius to see that President Clinton and his staff have fastened on crime.
It is an impulse to be saluted, especially since Mr. Clinton does not seem drawn to the simplistic -- and sometimes demagogic -- approach embodied in Nixon-Reagan-Bush rhetoric. Their main theme was that the nation could stamp out crime by chasing and punishing criminals more relentlessly. But several decades of experience have proved beyond reasonable doubt that a purely punitive approach can, at best, hold the line. To decrease crime requires a mixture of law enforcement, social and economic remedies. 
 Even so, we have to start somewhere, and the Presidential pulpit is the logical place. In that regard, Mr. Clinton's speeches in Memphis on Nov. 13 and in Los Angeles on Nov. 21 were interesting exercises. The themes of personal responsibility and family stability he enunciated will serve as important public-relations wrapping for any full-scale political offensive.
By seizing the responsibility theme, Mr. Clinton hopes to protect himself from Republican assault as an old-style Democratic liberal. But by invoking the legacies of Martin Luther King Jr. and Cesar Chavez, he hopes to distance himself from those who deliver racially loaded bootstrap lectures to impoverished inner-city minorities.
It will be a tactical coup if Mr. Clinton can pull it off and a heavy blow to Republican hopes in next year's Congressional elections and in 1996. The danger for the White House is that it may get so caught up in political gaming that it loses touch with Mr. Clinton's impulse to attack the underlying causes of the national murder epidemic: poverty, ignorance, addiction and unrestricted availability of firearms.
The family pathologies that Mr. Clinton diagnosed do not persist when income and education levels go up. That is the lesson from every impoverished population in American history. Conversely, populations sentenced to poverty and ignorance fulfill every prophecy of doom directed at them.
That is what Mr. Clinton was saying in the most important, if less quote-worthy passages of his crime speeches. "We cannot repair the troubled wounds of this country simply by making ourselves safer on the streets," he said in Los Angeles. "We must also give our young people more to say yes to. Not only faith and family, but work. Work is required to organize society."
There is another interim requirement while the long-term remedies of education, economic opportunity and family discipline are applied. The President and Congress must be tough and smart enough to reduce the firepower on American streets by regulating the availability of handguns. The long stalemate over the Brady bill, just ended, shows how far they are from that task.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (75%); 

CITY: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (75%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; EDITORIALS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (86%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GUN CONTROL (74%); POOR POPULATION (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); SENTENCING (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (52%); HISTORY (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



779 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 13; Page 6; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: MIDTOWN;
Proposal Would Return 'Clang! Clang! Clang!' to 42d

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

 BODY:
Some say it will provide quieter, cleaner transportation. Others call it the nostalgia trip of a few visionaries.
Decades after making its last trip in New York City, the trolley car is resurfacing -- or at least the idea of it. Mayor Dinkins, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan and various civic groups like the Parks Council have expressed support for the return of the trolley along 42d Street. 
 The city has been studying a proposal to restore the trolley on a 2.2 mile route along the southern side of 42d Street from the United Nations to 12th Avenue and south to Port Imperial Ferry at 39th Street, across from the Javits Convention Center. Westbound automobile traffic would move on the north side of 42d Street while eastbound traffic would be routed along 40th Street. Trolleys with up to 250 passengers (compared with 75 for a bus) would draw power from a wire over the track. The $75 million project would be financed and operated by private investors and fares would be comparable to bus fares.
Tomorrow the 42d Street Development Corporation, a private nonprofit group, and the City Department of Transportation, will make a full public presentation of the plans at 7 P.M. at Playwrights Horizons Theater 416 West 42d Street.
The trolley project could be completed by the end of 1996, said Frederic Papert, president of the development corporation. But the process might not be so smooth. Community board leaders and elected officials have expressed serious doubts about it. They see massive traffic tieups at intersections and along 40th Street and increased waiting and loading times.
A joint trolley task force for community boards 4, 5 and 6 is urging the city to go back to the drawing board. "What we want to know is whether the city can afford to disrupt midtown traffic and devote significant resources to give us less than we have now," said Peter Obletz, a director of the task force.
Supporters say trolleys would be quieter, faster, more economical and more energy-efficient than current crosstown bus service.
"We hope it will happen because it would reduce traffic noise and be visually attractive," said Daniel Biederman, executive director of the Bryant Park Restoration Corporation.
While people say the trolley revival, first proposed 15 years ago, is being taken more seriously than before, most are unwilling to predict whether it will become a reality. Neither Borough President Ruth W. Messinger nor Mayor-elect Rudolph W. Giuliani has taken a position on the service. MARVINE HOWE

GRAPHIC: Drawing: A rendering of the proposed 42d Street trolley shows it as part of a revitalized Hudson River waterfront.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BRYANT PARK GRILL (52%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; FORTY-SECOND STREET (NYC) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; TROLLEY CARS CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (89%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (89%); MAYORS (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (77%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); FERRIES (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); THEATER & DRAMA (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); WRITERS (51%); 

PERSON: HOWE, MARVINE RUDY GIULIANI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1993



780 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 13; Page 10; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 339 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: WILLIAMSBURG/DOWNTOWN - UPDATE;
Rabbi Quits Housing Plan

BYLINE: By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY

 BODY:
A Williamsburg rabbi has pulled out of a project to rehabilitate an apartment building that would have been shared by Hasidic and Hispanic residents, saying he could not trust his Hispanic partners.
The move comes nearly two months after 200 Hispanic squatters took over a new housing project out of fear that the majority of the apartments would go to Hasidim. The event highlighted the anger between the two groups, as they continue to grow at about the same rate and clash over housing. 
 The rabbi, David Niederman, director of the United Jewish Organizations of Williamsburg, said he would reconsider if leaders of the group he was working with, the Southside Housing Development Fund Corporation, or Los Sures, would denounce the Oct. 1 protest. But if not, he plans to work with other Hispanic organizations to build housing, he said.
"What went on there was pure anti-Semitism," Rabbi Niederman said last week of the protest. "We have rights to housing just as much as they do. If Los Sures denounces this protest, then I will know that I have a partner. The way things stand now, I don't know if they would alert me if they saw someone running at my back with a knife."
David Pagan, administrator of Los Sures, said that the project was still alive as far as he was concerned. Only one worker from his office participated in the protest and she did not represent his organization, Mr. Pagan said. Therefore, he said he felt no need to denounce the event.
After a year's work, Rabbi Niederman and Mr. Pagan came up with a plan to redevelop a six-story, red-brick building with 21 apartments at 907 Driggs Avenue in the heart of the Hasidic community. Work was scheduled to start in the spring.
On Oct. 1, the squatters, organized by groups including the Southside Fair Housing Committee (not affiliated with Mr. Pagan's organization), took over the 150-unit complex at South 10th and Berry Streets. They left the next day after city officials promised them the right to monitor the selection of tenants. L.H.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rabbi David Niederman (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; WILLIAMSBURG (NYC) UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PUBLIC HOUSING; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; JEWS; HASIDISM; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION RELIGION (92%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); RIOTS (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); CITIES (61%); CITY GOVERNMENT (61%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (54%); 

PERSON: NIEDERMAN, DAVID (RABBI); HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1993



781 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 13; Page 4; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: MAKING IT WORK

 BODY:

Appetite for Burritos Is Spreading in Manhattan
 First there were hamburgers, then salad-bar salads, then sushi. Now, burritos. Fast Mexican takeout is cropping up all over. Capitalizing on the city's taste for cheap rice and beans and sloppy guacamole is the California Burrito Company. 
 The company opened its flagship store at 456 Hudson Street, near Morton Street, in the West Village in October 1992, and has since opened four more in Manhattan. In the next two months, it plans to set up a store in the World Financial Center and another in the West Village (right near a competitor, Benny's Burritos on Greenwich Avenue).
"We are going to build these seven stores firmly, and then we're going to open even more," said Victor Semper, a partner in the company.
 
A Theatrical Approach To Finding a Job
 You've tried mass mailings of your resume. You've made 459 cold calls. Perhaps what you need is someone to sing to you.
Dorothy Leeds, who writes books on career issues, will give an unusual job-hunting workshop tomorrow, "How to Overcome Telephone Phobia Without the Help of a Shrink," for people out of work.
Miss Leeds uses her Theater for Learning -- part business-training service, part theater -- to inspire and entertain people who have been frustrated in job searches. Her three-hour seminar includes discussions, training sessions, a mini-melodrama called "The Case of the Unloved Employer" and a few songs.
"I think adults need a sense of drama and creativity in their learning process," Miss Leeds said. "Job-seekers really need to be psyched up. I do a lot of singing to get them out of their negative thinking."
Tomorrow's workshop will be held at the New York Society for Ethical Culture, 2 West 64th Street in Manhattan at 6 P.M.; the fee is $19.
 
Teatime for the Trendy: A Specialty Shop in SoHo
 New York now has a giant tea emporium. On Friday, Miriam Novalle, a hot-beverage lover and entrepreneur, opened T, a 6,000-square-foot showroom for teas, teapots, tea accessories and everything else related to potable infusions. The basement-level store is at Prince and Mercer Streets, down a few steps under the Guggenheim Museum SoHo.
In January, the store plans to begin serving tea twice a day in a salon setting. The space was once a speakeasy but has been empty for years, said Michelle Joslin, an assistant to Ms. Novalle.
 
Health and Beauty From the Same Source
 A Manhattan-based vitamin shop now has a city-specific line of beauty products. The Vitamin Shoppe, with 10 stores, will introduce its h-treatment line of skin care products in time for Christmas.
City shoppers will be able to pick up lemon cleansing gels and herbal clarifiers, and a lipo-vite complex or two. "The h-line provides treatment from the inside out, which is something that New Yorkers really need," said Helen Howard, a co-owner of the chain. "We live in a polluted environment and are under a great deal of stress, both of which weaken the skin structure. The h-line offers vitamins and botanicals to help the skin look beautiful and glowing."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VSI (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: VITAMIN SHOPPE INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (77%); FOOD SUPPLEMENT STORES (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (70%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (62%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (62%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1993



782 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 13; Page 6; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: UPPER WEST SIDE;
Crowded School Plans to Grow, Vertically

BYLINE: By EMILY M. BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
Trinity School, a private day school on West 92d Street, is suffering a problem common in the city's public schools: overcrowding. But because the school occupies the bottom three floors of a 29-story apartment building, it is trying an unusual solution that has stirred protests: expanding into the tenants' community room and fourth-floor recreation area.
"We are busting at the seams," said Blaine Fogg, president of the school's board of trustees. "We have 930 kids this year in a building designed for 600. Our building is old, and we use every nook and cranny of it." 
 But the plan has infuriated many of the residents in the 200 apartments on the upper 25 floors.
"We are ready to concede that many buildings don't have these facilities, but we don't think that's a reason for them to be taken away from us," said James A. Paul, the vice president of the tenants' association.
Although the tenants have not been able to pay for a lawyer, they have enlisted the support of several elected Manhattan officials. They have asked for help from Community Board 7, which wrote a letter to Trinity School asking for further information.
And the tenants have pursued more active forms of protest. They picketed the school in October and have taped a television show about their concerns, which runs twice a week on public-access cable.
The school sponsored the building, which opened in 1970, between Amsterdam and Columbus Avenues, under the Mitchell-Lama housing laws, so any change must go through a long approval process. To take over the fourth floor, the school must request a change in the urban renewal plan for the area, which governs space use.
The school's lawyers have already submitted a preliminary plan to the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development, and intend to file a final plan with the City Planning Commission next month. The plan will then be reviewed by the community board and other agencies.
The tenants say they use the community room for meetings, or rent it out for private parties. Tenants once had access to a terrace, where children played while older people sat on benches. But the school closed the terrace was closed two years ago because of fears that people might fall from it, said Mr. Fogg, who described the space as underused.
But Christine Spencer, president of the tenants' association, who has lived in the building since it opened, said she used to see plenty of people there.
"How can we use it if they lock it up?" Ms. Spencer asked. "They keep it locked so they can continue to say it's underutilized. Then they'll say, 'If the tenants don't use it, why shouldn't the school take it?' "
The expansion would also cost tenants their laundry room. The school would pay for a new laundry room in the basement, Mr. Fogg said, but tenants say that would be less safe and would not have as much ventilation. The school also would allow tenants to meet in a vacant classroom, Mr. Fogg said, but they would probably not be able to use it for parties.
The proposal is only one part of a master plan for expansion that Trinity School has drawn up. But most of the proposals will cost much more than the $100,000 estimated for renovating the floor, and the school does not have the money, Mr. Fogg said. EMILY M. BERNSTEIN

GRAPHIC: Photo: Christine Spencer and James A. Paul are leading tenants' opposition to plans by Trinity School on West 92d to expand onto the fourth floor of the high-rise. (Carrie Boretz for the New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: TRINITY SCHOOL (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: TRINITY SCHOOL (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; HOUSING; PRIVATE SCHOOLS PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (71%); APPROVALS (70%); LAND USE PLANNING (70%); LAWYERS (68%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, EMILY M

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1993



783 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 13; Page 3; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: MAKING IT WORK;
Angel of the Airwaves

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
IT IS around 2:30 A.M., and yet another livery-cab driver is calling WNYE-FM. "This is B-24 from Black Pearl," he says, giving his car number and the name of one of Bedford-Stuyvesant's biggest car services. Sirens, coughing exhausts, a dog's barking and other sounds of the night thump and bang in the background.
"Are you watching your back?" asks Al Angeloro. 
 "Always," the driver answers.
In the jangled, jazzy clutter of New York City's wee hours, Mr. Angeloro sometimes seems to be one of the drivers' few friends. Sitting in a dreary basement in downtown Brooklyn, he dishes out the pulsating, electrified music of Africa and the Caribbean to those who crave it. In some crazy sense, he is whistling past the graveyard for drivers fearing instant death; so far this year, 40 have been killed, 2,000 robbed.
These drivers -- like most of the show's audience of computer programmers, car-wash attendants, emergency-room nurses and all the other soldiers in New York's army of the night -- come from far, far away. Most are recent immigrants, often illegal, and work 60 or more hours a week.
In recent months, Mr. Angeloro has been offering the drivers more than a good beat that's easy to dance to. He has been inviting Capt. Richard Savage, the head of the Police Department's task force on taxi crime, to go on the air and give safety tips. Stay off less-traveled streets, the captain advises. Avoid some address where the security is known to be lax.
Mr. Angeloro's special relationship with his listeners means a lot to Captain Savage, particularly since it helps ease fears of the police harbored by people from Haiti and other dictatorships.
"He's certainly someone who cares about his cabdrivers," Captain Savage said. "He calls them his drivers."
The show, "New York International," is broadcast daily from 1 A.M. to 6:30 A.M. Since WNYE (91.5 FM) is owned by the Board of Education, there are no commercials. There is just song after song after song, occasionally punctuated by a comment.
Listeners include insomniacs and sophisticates eager to progress beyond Paul Simon's latest third-world enthusiasm. But the drivers are central. It is they -- and their passengers -- whom Mr. Angeloro greets immediately upon coming on the air.
"If you're listening for the first time in a taxi, welcome to New York," he says. "If you're listening in a taxi and the driver is courteous and the car is clean, our tipping policy is 25 percent."
But words are few. The music begins with "Pygmy music from northeast Cameroon going into Zaire," Although calls come in constantly, he puts few on the air. "People want to dance," he explains. "This is almost like a jukebox."
Off the air, unbeknownst to listeners engrossed in the latest from Kanda Bongo Man, he is talking to a cabbie from Zaire who is at 146th Street and Eighth Avenue. They banter about business for awhile, and Mr. Angeloro promises to play a song by Diblo Dibala, a singer from Zaire.
The show is based on the conviction that nobody listens to the words anymore. From Cuban charanga music to Zairean soukous to Martinique's zouk to Haitian voodoo rock, it is the endless beat of the wildly playful melodies that matters.
This eclecticism is what Mr. Angeloro insists makes the show unusual, although more and more of this music is available on other stations. For instance, he says Spanish stations, many of which he admires, play only Spanish-language salsa, rather than the emerging African salsa.
What is unarguable is that this world beat music is geared to the changing mosaic of New York. "New York is becoming an African-Caribbean city," the disk jockey said. "Brooklyn is the Caribbean."
Mr. Angeloro was born and grew up in Bensonhurst, the son of working-class parents. Radio was his fascination. As a youth, he would huddle under his covers late into the night listening to voices he still adores. There was Long John Nebel, who staged seances on the moon and interviewed Martians. There was Daddy Sears out of Memphis, the disk jockey who discovered Little Richard.
Most important were the black disk jockeys on WNJR out of Newark. He was swept away with the new sounds they launched into the crackling night, and it was Bo Diddley and all the rest of the great black rock-and-rollers who shaped his musical tastes the most.
"Radio is the theater of the mind," he said, remembering the worlds he has visited throughout the medium. His current musical obsession is but another step on this quest.
He made a detour in 1966, going to Brooklyn Law School to avoid the draft. But after a short stint with Legal Aid, he called a local jazz station and landed a job reporting and reading news. Wearing many different hats, he has been on the air without a stop since 1973.
Some stations for which he has worked have closed; some have gone all-sports or country; one turned to an exclusively Christian format. Although Mr. Angeloro developed his third-world format on a three-hour show on WBAI, he came to see that station as "a left-wing cult" because many people at the station supported Cuba's Communist revolution. He sees the revolution as bankrupt, not least because it gets in the way of the country's great music.
"If you've got any kind of brain, that's not how you see the world," he said.
Mr. Angeloro is paid nothing. In nearly three years at WNYE, he has made ends meet by working part time as an administrative law judge for the state Human Rights Commission, putting in a couple of days a week counseling drug addicts, and collecting a bit of unemployment.
The free-form nature of the show continues past sun-up. Nothing is planned. Callers' requests are sometimes played instantaneously, and balance is achieved by keeping a chart of what has been played. Most radio stations, by contrast, are completely programmed in advance, Mr. Angeloro said.
The night veers toward early morning. With street sounds audible in the background, a driver from the Ivory Coast calls to ask for a song by Kofi Olomides, an eerily romantic rocker from Zaire. Somebody else wants Zin, a hot Haitian band. Mr. Angeloro dishes out a treat, a cut from an unreleased concert tape given to him by Baaba Maal, the superstar of Senegal.
The disk jockey sits in his rectangular underground bunker, sips strong coffee, and snatches a page or two of "The Hobbit," which he is rereading with delight. He recalls his favorite listener compliment.
"You no prejudice," an African voice said several months ago. "You play anything."
 
 
 
Dial Tones: Seeking Baaba Maal
 Hearing the sort of African-Caribbean music that some call World Beat is catch-as-catch can, even in New York. Tunes pop up on jazz and rock stations, particularly when a famous artist is in town. Here are four shows that offer more regular doses:
 
WNYE-FM (91.5) "New York International," from 1 A.M. to 6:30 A.M. every morning.
 
WKCR-FM (89.9) The "African Show," from 9:30 PM to 11:30 PM Sunday.
 
WNYC-AM (820) & FM (93.2) "Afropop," National Public Radio, broadcast simultaneously on both stations from midnight Thursdays to 1 A.M. Friday.
 
WNWK-FM (105.9) Less predictable. Presents a variety of ethnic programming at different times.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Al Angeloro takes to the air in the wee hours on WNYE-FM, playing a mix of music geared toward the changing mosaic of New York, including Cuban charanga music, Zairean soukous, Martinique's zouk and Haitian voodoo rock. (Steve Hart for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (52%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); HAITI (92%); CAMEROON (79%); AFRICA (56%); MARTINIQUE (56%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: WNYE (RADIO STATION) (NYC) NEW YORK INTERNATIONAL COMMERCE GROUP INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: WNYE (RADIO STATION) (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); HAITI (92%); CAMEROON (79%); AFRICA (56%); MARTINIQUE (56%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (56%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: RADIO; TAXICABS AND TAXICAB DRIVERS; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS MUSIC (88%); GRATUITIES & TIPS (78%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (78%); POLICE FORCES (75%); ARMED FORCES (66%); IMMIGRATION (66%); 

PERSON: SAVAGE, RICHARD (CAPT); ANGELORO, AL; MARTIN, DOUGLAS MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1993



784 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 13; Page 4; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.;
The Going-Out-of-Business Business

BYLINE: BY THOMAS J. LUECK

 BODY:
THE very act of going out of business, or trying not to, has become big business in New York's rough and tumble economy. Lawyers, collection agents, auctioneers, liquidators -- they have always flourished here, but for the last three years they have been working overtime.
Consider David J. Doyaga, a bankruptcy lawyer who works at least 10 hours a day, seven days a week. 
 "I feel like a mortician in wartime," he said.
On any given day, Mr. Doyaga has more than 200 clients -- real-estate investors gone bust, small merchants mired in debt, people who have simply lost their jobs -- being guided through the dreary legal thicket of bankruptcy.
"In the early part of this recession, most of my clients were poor," said Mr. Doyaga, whose 23d-floor office looks out over downtown Brooklyn's court buildings. "Now I'm seeing architects and doctors. Last week, there were two lawyers, and that begins to unnerve me."
Mr. Doyaga is among a small cadre of lawyers and business consultants for whom financial failure has become a growth industry. No one knows how many firms and advisers have been buoyed by the boom in business failures. But a boom it has been, with an eightfold increase between 1989 and last year, and a wide spectrum of businesses, from multinational corporations to corner bodegas, being pulled down.
This year, amid widespread evidence that the slump has bottomed out, the rate is running slightly behind last year's. Dun & Bradstreet, the financial-analysis corporation, said there were 2,659 business failures in New York City in the first nine months of this year, down by 11 percent from the 3,035 in the first nine months of 1992.
Still, "there are all kinds of companies out there that are just hanging on by their fingernails," said Stanley B. Frieze, a Manhattan business consultant.
Mr. Doyaga said the greatest demand for his services comes from real-estate investors and developers; among small business owners, most of his clients are merchants dealing with luxury items like furs and jewelry.
His clientele fits the larger profile: Dun & Bradstreet records show that in 1990, when bankruptcies tripled, the hardest-hit New York businesses were real-estate brokerages and financial-advisory firms, followed by stores, small construction firms and manufacturers.
In a situation typical of his clients, Mr. Doyaga described the problems of one Brooklyn entrepreneur who had invested in laundromats, which failed for reasons that illustrate the depth of New York City's economic decline.
The entrepreneur had expected to profit from serving "drop-off" customers instead of those who took the time to use coin-operated washing machines themselves. But a dwindling number of people can afford to have someone else wash their clothes.
By the time the entrepreneur was ready to consider bankruptcy protection, Mr. Doyaga said, he was already being buffeted by financial and legal problems. Collection agents were calling, his lenders were threatening to seize his laundry equipment, and his landlords had gone to court to evict him.
"This was a case when he should have come to me much sooner," said Mr. Doyaga, whose fee ranges from $1,000 for a simple personal bankruptcy case to more than $25,000 for one involving a small business. Personal bankruptcies are normally filed under Chapter 7 of the Federal bankruptcy code and involve liquidation of personal assets, while small business cases, filed under Chapter 11, are more complicated and require the court to approve plans under which troubled businesses can continue to operate.
For anyone trying to salvage a small business through bankruptcy proceedings, the cost in aggravation and fatigue may be as high as the legal fees. After a Chapter 11 filing, a business owner and his lawyer must attend separate meetings with creditors and a judge every 45 days, sometimes for periods exceeding a year. Required monthly financial reports can be more detailed and complicated than tax forms.
And while struggling through the legal obstacle course, merchants often find that some of their most important suppliers -- the deli's bagel maker, the builder's plumber -- either refuse to continue doing business with them or require cash in advance for their services.
In the hope that bankruptcy can be avoided, many business owners have turned to consultants like Mr. Frieze. A senior vice president of Carl Marks Associates, a financial-services company based on the East Side of Manhattan, Mr. Frieze is often hired by company owners who have been ordered to seek outside help by lenders.
Mr. Frieze is a "turnaround specialist," a financial Mr. Fixit. If straightening out a company's books, closing down unprofitable operations or even dismissing employees will avert insolvency, he promises to find out.
Since the economic slump began, he said, he has advised 60 companies, often spending months working with their books and managers, and sometimes even taking over day-to-day management himself.
"I like to think of myself as a company doctor," said Mr. Frieze, who charges $1,200 to $2,400 a day. His obligation, he said, is to provide a detached, unflattering financial assessment of his clients' companies. "I often have to bring the news people don't want to hear, but I will never mislead."
Both Mr. Frieze and Mr. Doyaga speak of the emotional strain of trying to help business owners for whom little can be done. Feelings run so deep that many of Mr. Doyaga's former clients cross the street rather than greet him on the sidewalk.
"People think they can cling to their businesses, that things will turn up, that somehow they will survive," he said, "but by the time they come to see me their finances are really a mess."
Mr. Frieze agreed. "There are a lot of situations where the patient has already died, and you simply have to say so, to pull the cord."

GRAPHIC: Photo: David J. Doyaga, a bankruptcy lawyer, has more than 200 clients on any given day. He works 10 hours a day, seven days a week. "I feel like a mortician in wartime." (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)
 
Chart indicating business failures in NYC by borough over last four years. (Source: The Dun and Bradstreet Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKRUPTCIES; SMALL BUSINESS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE LAWYERS (91%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (90%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); RETAILERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RECESSION (78%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (75%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (75%); LAYOFFS (72%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (71%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); TRENDS (66%); LUXURY GOODS (61%); DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (60%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: DOYAGA, DAVID J

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1993



785 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1506 words

HEADLINE: Art Lovers, Take Your Seats. Now, Stay There for Hours.

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
Life is short. Art is long. Actually, these days, very long. And getting longer all the time.
Tony Kushner's "Perestroika," which opened last week on Broadway, runs at operatic length: three and a half hours. And it's only half of a theatrical diptych, seven hours over all. "The Kentucky Cycle," also on Broadway and also in two parts, runs six hours. And this year's revival (Broadway needs at least one each season) is "Abe Lincoln in Illinois," which runs three and a half hours. So much for abstracts and brief chronicles. 
 Opera lovers, in peak physical condition after several seasons of Wagner's "Ring" cycle at the Met -- the gold standard of length, with its four operas adding up to nearly 20 hours of Teutonic struggle -- look forward to December, when Berlioz's rarely performed masterwork "Les Troyens," all five hours of it, opens at the Met.
Want to take in a movie? It used to be a 90-minute proposition. The holiday lineup includes "Carlito's Way," (2 hours 21 minutes), "Mrs. Doubtfire" (2 hours 5 minutes), "A Perfect World" (2 hours 17 minutes) and, coming up next month, "Schindler's List" (just over 3 hours). Art-film devotees can buy a jumbo tub of popcorn and settle in for Robert Altman's misleadingly titled "Short Cuts" (3 hours 9 minutes) or perhaps "Gettysburg," which, at 4 hours, seems nearly as long as the actual battle.
 
A Daunting Winner
 It is somehow symptomatic that the most visible winner at this year's National Book Awards was Gore Vidal's essay collection "United States." It runs more than 1,300 pages and weighs slightly more than a brick. It was so daunting in aspect that neat piles of Mr. Vidal's book, free for the taking at the awards ceremony at the Plaza Hotel, remained undisturbed.
A three-hour movie, a thousand-page book or a six-hour play, like the bumblebee, should not be able to fly. In the television era, particularly its MTV phase, the nation's cultural attention span is supposed to be contracting at warp speed. The conventional wisdom has it that audiences barely have the time or patience to work their way through the narrative on a bubble-gum wrapper.
Yet even as economic forces conspire to turn life's movable feast into a succession of fast-food gulps, Lucullan feasts have been laid out upon the cultural table, and audiences are eating their way, slowly, through all 12 courses.
 
And the Meaning Is . . .
 It is not clear whether this phenomenon is supply-driven or demand-driven. Are writers and producers lodging a protest against the incredible shrinking power of television? Or have they sensed a latent demand for length and complexity in the benumbed mass of zombies who constitute the ideal television audience?
One thing seems fairly certain: some issues of power and status are bubbling beneath the surface. Big art suggests a big artist tackling big themes. It also establishes something like a master-slave relationship with an audience. It was revealing when Mr. Kushner, speaking of "Angels in America," said in an interview, "I like it that people are appalled and amused by the size of this work, that it claims so much space."
The example of film is instructive. Most critics agree that the turning point was "Dances With Wolves," Kevin Costner's 1990 epic. The film proved to Hollywood that longer could be better at the box office. Against all odds, the film made big money. It also lit the fire of envy in every director in town. Suddenly three hours became the new base line from which to negotiate one's status.
With a certain inevitability, Oliver Stone's "J.F.K." came in at 188 minutes -- eight minutes longer than "Dances With Wolves." Then Spike Lee, in a see-'em-and-raise-'em move, decided that "Malcolm X" required precisely 199 minutes to achieve artistically perfect form.
Mr. Costner may have the last laugh. When "Dances" was shown on television two weeks ago, 40 minutes of outtakes were added to create a two-part drama as endless as the Dakota prairie. To top that, Mr. Stone may have to add two more conspiracies to "J.F.K."
 
Intermission? Forget It
 The members of Hollywood's three-hour club look like miniaturists compared with their counterparts in the theater. Last year, Ariane Mnouchkine created a sensation with "Les Atrides," a romp through the House of Atreus that lasted about 10 hours. Presented in four installments, it was the intellectual equivalent of an iron-man competition. Each play was given without intermission, and audience members, once seated, could not leave the theater, perhaps to even out the balance between the suffering on the stage and in the seats.
"Les Atrides," a sellout for its two-week run, brought back fond memories of marathons past at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, where in the early 1970's hardened audiences sat through 12 hours of Robert Wilson's "Life and Times of Joseph Stalin." Some audience members, comparing notes afterward, found themselves describing episodes in the plot that others did not recall. The explanation was that after about six hours, they had lapsed into a kind of trance and were recalling private hallucinations.
"Les Atrides" and, before it, Peter Brook's nine-hour "Mahabharata," can be explained away as the excesses of the European avant-garde. But the theater of cruelty seems to be gaining ground on Broadway, perhaps as a kind of penance for "Cats."
 
The Book as Paperweight
 Books have also been putting on serious weight. Novels range from slim to bloated, but it's worth noting that three years ago the publishing industry was abuzz over Harold Brodkey's "Runaway Soul" and Norman Mailer's "Harlot's Ghost," weighing in at 835 pages and 1,328 pages, respectively. And this year, Knopf put a serious stack of chips on a 1,300-page novel by Vikram Seth, "A Suitable Boy."
For the novel, 1,000 pages represents carbo-load. For biography, it is nothing special; anything less suggests a certain lack of seriousness.
Some literary critics have argued that biographies got big when the novel got small. The lean cuisine of minimalism did not satisfy the American appetite for epic narratives. Hungry readers took their business elsewhere. Biography offered the old-fashioned consolations of a gripping narrative, a central character engaged in a mighty struggle with events, the clash of passion, mind and will.
There are other theories. "There is a problem with writers, and it's called the word processor," said David Rosenthal, executive editor at Random House. "All those things that you just might have excised previously because it was too much of a pain to rewrite you can now keep in. That last footnote you wanted to add but didn't because it would mess up the page? Now you can add 4,000 footnotes to the page."
Publishers also find that as book prices climb, size has a beneficial effect on what the industry calls perceived value. When customers shell out $30 for a book, they want to feel some heft under their arm when they walk out the door.
The principle extends to film and theater as well. No one left "La Belle Noiseuse" (four hours) complaining that he didn't get enough film for his $7.50. No one is likely to stagger out of "Les Troyens" at midnight saying, "Please, sir, can I have some more?"
Video packagers, acutely aware that more is more, make a point of releasing cassettes with material not seen during theatrical release. These "director's cut" versions imply primeval struggle between the untrammeled vision of the director, who inevitably thinks big, and the cruel demands of the Hollywood machine, which leaves spools of genius on the cutting-room floor.
 
Computers' Legacy
 The argument that cultural consumers have less time and that television has shortened attention spans, conceals a fallacy. In some respects, television and the new forms of cultural interaction arising on computer bulletin boards represent the ultimate in sustained attention. Viewers follow soap opera plots for years.
On computer bulletin boards, users log on around the clock, sending messages back and forth, submitting works of fiction for comment, belaboring points, building philosophic systems, and in general behaving as though they had all the time in the world. Length is no problem. Cyberspace, as they say, is infinite. Computers, the ultimate time savers, have turned out to be the most efficient time wasters since the invention of whittling.
How long can this go on? As audiences approach the three-hour mark at "Abe Lincoln in Illinois," they might recall that Abe's most memorable piece of work was a 272-word address. And operagoers who are cramping in the final hours of "Les Troyens" may wish to sample Darius Milhaud's "Deliverance of Theseus," with a running time of seven and a half minutes (no intermission).
On the other hand, assuming a $50 ticket, Milhaud delivers a unit price of $6.66 a minute. The rate for "Parsifal" is about 15 cents a minute, a bargain of truly Wagnerian proportions. More culture for much less money. Who could resist?

CORRECTION-DATE: December 1, 1993, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about the increasing lengths of movies, plays, operas and books misidentified the publisher of Vikram Seth's 1,300-page novel, "A Suitable Boy." The publisher is HarperCollins, not Alfred A. Knopf.

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (pg. 34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: DANCES WITH WOLVES (MOVIE)

TICKER: PWRD (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: PERFECT WORLD CO LTD (55%); PERFECT WORLD CO LTD (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; MOTION PICTURES; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; THEATER OPERA (90%); FILM (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (86%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); LITERATURE (67%); WRITERS (67%); THEATER (57%); 

PERSON: GRIMES, WILLIAM TONY KUSHNER (74%); ROBERT B ALTMAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



786 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Mutual Funds;
'Rights Offerings' at Wrong Time?

BYLINE: By Carole Gould

 BODY:
THE rage among closed-end funds to raise capital has intensified.
Using "rights offerings," in which investors are invited to buy additional shares at discounted prices, 31 funds have raised money through mid-November this year and three more are in the process. That will be more than twice the 16 offerings that came to market last year and more than eight times as many as in 1991. 
 In addition, the types of funds considered suitable for rights offerings have increased. Equity funds were first to adopt this largely British technique about five years ago, and bond funds joined in two years ago, accounting this year for nearly a quarter of the deals so far. Now municipal bond funds are caught up in the craze: the first muni rights offerings were announced earlier this month by John Nuveen & Company for two of its funds.
But the demand for capital from bond fund managers at a time when investing in the bond market has its perils -- with interest rates at their lowest in many years and prices at their highest -- raises a serious question for shareholders: what's in it for them?
In some cases, rights offerings are justified. Raising capital makes sense for small funds, which can use economies of scale to lower expenses. Or managers might use new money to take advantage of an unusual opportunity, as the managers of the First Australia Prime Income Fund did recently in anticipating a drop in Australian interest rates.
These reasons, however, don't apply to most of 1993's eight bond fund offerings, which were made by large funds during inopportune times in the United States bond market. The low interest rates create a dangerous situation for bond buyers. As the economy improves, rates are expected to rise, but as they do, bond prices fall, so today's bond fund share owners are particularly susceptible to capital depreciation.
Indeed, fund managers whose bonds are being called complain that they must reinvest the proceeds at today's low rates. A fund that raised a big chunk of capital through a rights offering today would have little choice but to invest in the same tough market.
"Given the proliferation of bond funds, the last thing you'd expect to see today is rights offerings," said Thomas J. Herzfeld, a closed-end fund analyst and trader in Miami. Noting that management fees are paid as a percentage of assets, he added: "It's just another technique for raising capital from which to draw management fees."
Moreover, recent experience has shown that rights offerings, which usually last about a month, nearly always put downward pressure on funds' share prices resulting from the "dilution" of the fund's net asset value as the number of outstanding shares increases at a lower price for each share.
When the Prospect Street High Income Fund, a leveraged junk fund, began its offering in July, shares traded at a 10 percent premium; that disappeared by August. After recovering and settling at 3 percent in mid-October, the premium plunged to a discount of nearly 9 percent in mid-November as a second rights offering proceeded.
Similarly, when three funds run by Alliance Capital Management -- ACM Government Securities, ACM Government Spectrum and ACM Government Income -- raised $200 million in August, their share prices fell during the offering period from premiums to discounts between 6 and 8 percent during the offerings.
So why try to raise money now?
"We felt that the funds had performed extremely well since inception and saw an opportunity to give shareholders an additional investment, if they were so inclined, without going out and buying a new fund," said Dave Dievler, chairman of the ACM funds.
And despite today's market, the ACM funds were surprisingly able to raise dividends, to roughly 9.5 percent, in October. Mr. Dievler insisted the funds' strategy had not changed, though investors should note that the bigger dividends come courtesy of a 20 percent position in junk bonds -- specifically Brady bonds created from Latin American loans in a program under former Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady.
But perhaps investors are becoming skeptical -- Alliance raised only 35 to 40 percent of the money it would have if all rights had been exercised.
As for Nuveen, its two offerings, expected to being in early January, apply to the Premium Income Municipal Bond and Municipal Value funds. They were chosen because they are "our two oldest and largest funds, with solid records of performance," said Tom Spalding, who manages Municipal Value.
Both funds have relatively short durations, about five years, partly because they are older funds. Duration measures how bond prices respond to shifts in interest rates, taking into account maturity, call protection and other factors. The shorter the duration, the less sensitive a fund is to rate changes. Proceeds of the Nuveen offerings will be used to buy new, longer-term issues, increasing duration -- and, therefore, risk.
As for yield, "we don't expect the offering will have a major impact on the dividend," Mr. Spalding said, although he acknowledged that we "don't know what the market will be like when the money comes in in 1994."
Share prices of the Nuveen funds have dropped more than 6 percent since the rights offerings were announced.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 5, 1993, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A chart with the Mutual Funds column last Sunday rendered the 1991, 1992 and 1993 figures for rights offerings by closed-end funds incorrectly. A corrected version appears today on page 37.

GRAPHIC: Graph showing rights offering by closed-end funds. (Source: Thomas J. Hertzfeld Advisors)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PHY (NYSE) (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: PROSPECT STREET HIGH INCOME PORTFOLIO INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; FINANCES, PERSONAL MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); BOND FUNDS (90%); BONDS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



787 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 5; Page 10; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1897 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S DOING IN;
Los Angeles

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD; ROBERT REINHOLD is chief of the Los Angeles bureau
of The Times.

 BODY:
No major American city in recent times has suffered quite the body blow to its tourism industry that Los Angeles did after last year's devastating riots. Those events changed the world perception of Los Angeles from one of a dreamy land of towering palms, movie stars and sunny escape to one of urban apocalypse, with violent street gangs and drive-by shootings. If both notions were exaggerated, the result was that visitors avoided Southern California, and especially its intimidating core, Los Angeles.
 The latest blow was the wildfires, and then mudslides, that afflicted the region in October and November. Despite the horrific television images, though, few visitors will notice the damage except in parts of Malibu, Laguna Beach and suburbs remote from most tourist attractions. Indeed, a year and a half after the riots, visitors are returning. With the peaceful reaction to verdicts in both the retrial of four white police officers who beat a black man and the trial of two young black men accused of brutalizing a white truck driver, Los Angeles has regained a measure of self-confidence. 
In fact, with the recent reopening of the Central Library, the start of subway service and the Nov. 17 opening of a vastly expanded convention center, Los Angeles is experiencing something of a renaissance.
 The visitor need not fear it any more than any other major American city. You might even consider visiting the riot-scarred South-Central area, for it offers glimpses into the vital African-American and Hispanic cultures that have flowered in Los Angeles. The city today is above all a place of diversity, where one can sample scores of cultures from every continent, all in uneasy coexistence.
 
Events
 A metaphor for the city's rebirth is the reopening of the landmark 1926 Egyptian-style Central Library, gutted by two arson fires in 1986. The library, at 630 West Fifth Street, (213) 228-7000, has been celebrating with many events, including "Shades of L.A.," an exhibition of the city's ethnic diversity, with 5,000 photographs.
 The Los Angeles Philharmonic is marking its 75th anniversary, with a variety of guest conductors in December. Among them is Bobby McFerrin, the jazz vocalist, who will conduct his amusing concerts on Dec. 17 and 18 at 8 P.M. At the Music Center, 135 North Grand Avenue, (213) 850-2000; tickets $6 to $50.
 Appropriately enough, Andrew Lloyd Webber's Broadway-bound new musical, "Sunset Boulevard," is to have its American premiere in Los Angeles on Dec. 9, starring Glenn Close. It's now in previews at the Shubert Theater, 2020 Avenue of the Stars, (800) 447-7400 or (310) 201-1555. Tickets are $20 to $65.
 The Santa Monica Heritage Museum, 2612 Main Street, Santa Monica, (310) 392-8537, is presenting a surfing exhibition until Feb. 27 called "Cowabunga! The Santa Monica Bay Surfing Experience." Admission $2, children under 12 free.
 Los Angeles's enormous Mexican community holds its annual Christmas festival, Las Posadas, with music, food, pinatas and a candlelight procession re-enacting the story of Mary and Joseph seeking shelter. At Olvera Street downtown, Dec. 16 to 24, starting 7 P.M. Free; (213) 628-4349.
 After the Rose Parade, the floats are on display on Sierra Madre Boulevard between Paloma Street and Sierra Madre Villa Avenue in Pasadena from 1:30 to 4 P.M. on Jan. 1 and from 9 A.M. to 4 P.M. on Jan. 2. Admission is $1; (818) 449-7673.
 The Huntington Library, 1151 Oxford Road in San Marino, (818) 405-2141, has opened "The Last Best Hope of Earth: Abraham Lincoln and the Promise of America," a collection of Lincoln documents, photographs and possessions. Open till Aug. 30, Tuesday to Friday, 1 to 4:30 P.M., Saturday and Sunday, 10:30 A.M. to 4:30 P.M. Free admission, but $5 donation is suggested ($3 for children).
 Excavations of three 1,700-year-old burial chambers in Peru have produced gold, silver and other artifacts of the pre-Incan Moche civilization. "The Royal Tombs of Sipan" exhibit is at the Fowler Museum of Cultural History, the University of California at Los Angeles, north campus, to Jan. 2. Open daily noon to 5 P.M., Monday and Thursday to 8. Admission $5, free Monday evening; children under 5 free; (310) 206-9161.
 
What to See
 As Reyner Banham, the British author, observed of the city two decades ago, "mobility outweighs monumentality." To see this fantastic mix of freeways and buildings, take a helicopter over the basin with Heli U.S.A. Day and night tours start at $119 a passenger; a deluxe tour lands on a downtown skyscraper for dinner in a rooftop restaurant, for $299 with the meal; (310) 553-4354.
 For a less expensive view, climb the Hollywood Hills. One good walk is up Runyon Canyon in Hollywood. Park at the end of North Fuller Avenue and follow the fire road around to the left to the bench at the top for a spectacular view from the Pacific to downtown. Below is the estate of the late Errol Flynn, which burned in a wildfire years ago.
 This year marks the city's re-entry into mass transit. A modern five-station subway, decorated with art such as murals by Joyce Kozloff, a New York artist, crosses downtown. For a pleasant car-free outing, board at the Spanish-mission style Union Station and change at Metro Center for the Blue Line, a surface light rail line to Long Beach 30 miles away. Fare is 25 cents for the subway and $1.10 for the Blue Line each way.
 For all its troubles, South-Central Los Angeles is one of the nation's main centers of African-American culture, art and music. Degnan Avenue near Leimert Park features galleries and restaurants. Valerie Holton of Black L.A. Tours, (213) 750-9267, arranges custom tours that visit such sites as the Dunbar Hotel, where entertainers like Louis Armstrong and Lena Horne stayed when barred from posher Hollywood hotels, major black churches, nightclubs and the California African-American Museum in Exposition Park. Prices range from $20 to $90 a person.
 With its huge influx of Asians, Los Angeles has become a leading center of Buddhism in America. Colorful temples welcome visitors. One is Wat Thai in North Hollywood, where Thai monks in saffron robes pad about in sandals. Enter the painted pagoda-like main building between 8 A.M. and 7 P.M., take off your shoes and listen to chants. At 8225 Coldwater Canyon Avenue; (818) 785-9552.
 For a fuller description of the city's rich ethnic attractions get copies of the new "Cultural Kaleidoscope" guides published by the Visitors Bureau. So far there are Afro-American and Asian and Pacific Islander editions, with a Hispanic edition expected this fall. Send $2 for each guide to the bureau at 633 West Fifth Street, Los Angeles, Calif. 90071.
 For children, a sure-fire hit is La Brea Tar Pits, where the bones of thousands of mammoths, saber-tooth tigers and other prehistoric animals have been excavated. The tar is still bubbling and active excavations can be viewed free. On the same grounds, the George C. Page Museum offers fascinating exhibits of the finds, at 5801 Wilshire Boulevard; (213) 936-2230. Admission is $5, $1 for children 5 to 12, under 5's free. Hours are 10 A.M. to 5 P.M., Wednesday to Sunday.
 For a more comprehensive calendar of cultural, sports and neighborhood events, call the Visitors Bureau events line at (213) 689-8822.
 
Where to Stay
 The new Hotel Inter-Continental offers good access to the Museum of Contemporary Art, the Music Center, Grand Central Market and other downtown attractions. The 439-room hotel at 251 South Olive Street is offering an introductory special of $119 for a double until the end of the year; (213) 617-3300 or (800) 327-0200.
 The new Shutters on the Beach, 1 Pico Boulevard, Santa Monica, mimics Southern California cottages of the 20's, with 186 rooms and 12 suites. Rates start at $220 for a double; (310) 458-0030 or (800) 637-7200.
 A more moderate beach choice is Barnaby's, the 124-room Victorian-style hotel at 3501 Sepulveda Boulevard in Manhattan Beach. Rates range from $98 to $159 for a double; (310) 545-8466 or (800) 552-5285.
 In Pasadena the 350-room Doubletree Hotel at 191 North Los Robles Avenue, is in the Plaza Las Fuentas, six acres of pedestrian walkways, fountains, gardens and shops, close to the walkable Old Town. Doubles are $170 standard, $89 at weekends; (818) 792-2727 or (800) 528-0444.
 Budget: The five-room Salisbury House is a restored 1909 craftsman house turned bed-and-breakfast at 2273 West 20th Street in the historic West Adams district, where tours of old homes are held over Thanksgiving and Christmas. Rates are $75 to $100 for a double with breakfast; (213) 737-7817 or (800) 373-1778.
 The Spanish-style Figueroa Hotel, at 939 South Figueroa Street, is popular among Europeans and Japanese. The 285 rooms range from $78 to $135 for a double; (213) 627-8971 or (800) 421-9092.
 Luxury: The Sunset Marquis Hotel and Villas, 1200 North Alta Loma Road, West Hollywood, is a favorite among the movie and music industry crowd, with 106 suites and 12 villas set among pools, fish ponds and exotic birds. Rates from $215 for the suites to $450 and up for the villas; $499 buys a "star for a day" package, including a private villa for two, a butler, a limousine ride to Rodeo Drive and a poolside cabana; (310) 657-1333 or (800) 858-9758.
 
Where to Eat
 The latest rage in the Asian-influenced California kitchen is Zenzero, in a glamorous Southern California setting with sidewalk patio at 1535 Ocean Avenue, Santa Monica, (310) 451-4455.
 The menu features such items as wok-seared sea scallops with Japanese tomato salsa and Chinese air-dried duck with fruit chutney. Dinner for two with wine and dessert runs about $100.
Possibly the best Mexican restaurant in town is La Serenata de Garibaldi at 1842 East First Street, (213) 265-2887.
 It offers such unusual items as lean pork in green tomatillo sauce, with a more elaborate menu at dinner. Lunch for two about $40, dinner about $65.
 In South-Central, a local favorite is Marla's Jazz Supper Club, owned by the actress Marla Gibbs. American and soul food dishes followed by entertainment, 2323 West Martin Luther King Boulevard; (213) 294-8430. Open Friday and Saturday this year; open nightly starting next year. Dinner $12.95 a person at 7 P.M.; show at 9 an extra $15 a person.
 For authentic Thai cuisine, try the L.A. Food Court, upstairs at 5321 Hollywood Boulevard; (213) 993-9000. Along the vast dining room are about six restaurants offering more than 300 dishes. Lunch or dinner for two can run as little as $20; no alcohol.
 A good choice for families is the Daily Grill, offering such basic fare as meatloaf and chicken pot pie. It is one of the few good restaurants with a real children's menu, including peanut butter and jelly sandwiches at $1.75. Dinner for two adults is about $45. The grill has five locations, the most central at 100 North La Cienega Boulevard; (310) 659-3100.
 The 18-year-old Shibucho restaurant still has a loyal Japanese following for its excellent sushi even though the neighborhood near 3114 West Beverly Boulevard is now mostly Hispanic. It serves strictly sushi in a wood-paneled Tokyo-like dining room. Shibucho is a rarity among Los Angeles restaurants, staying open for dinner until 3 A.M. every day except Sunday and holidays, when it closes at 11; (213) 626-1184.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 28, 1993, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
The What's Doing column on Nov. 28, about Los Angeles, misstated the telephone number for the Shibucho restaurant on Beverly Boulevard. It is (213) 387-8498. (The number given was for a restaurant of the same name, though not related, on South Alameda Street.)


GRAPHIC: Chart: "Vital Statistics" lists travel information and statistics on Los Angeles. (Sources: Runzheimer International, Los Angeles Convention and Visitors Bureau, The Times Books World Weather Guide)
Photos: Santa Monica Place, a shopping mall in Santa Monica. (Tony Esparza for The New York Times); A potential customer, center, discusses the merits of an African hat with two local merchants on Degnan Avenue. (Tony Robinson for The New York Times)
Map of Los Angeles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: WHAT'S DOING IN...(TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS RIOTS (91%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); EXHIBITIONS (87%); MUSICAL THEATER (84%); TOURISM (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); GANGS (76%); FIRES (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); MEN (72%); SHOOTINGS (71%); LIBRARIES (71%); HISTORY (70%); ARSON (70%); ETHNIC GROUPS (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (65%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (65%); JAZZ & BLUES (65%); MUSIC (65%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (64%); ANNIVERSARIES (61%); 

PERSON: REINHOLD, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1994



788 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 33; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Off a Historic Road, Decorators Show Off Historic Houses

BYLINE: By LISA PULITZER

 BODY:
UNTil 1958, Shelter Rock Road was a two-lane roadway in North Hills that provided access to some of the most prestigious "Gold Coast" addresses.
The road was home to William Singer of the Singer Sewing Machine Company; Walter Marshall, the president of Western Union; Irene and Vernon Castle, the dance couple of the 1920's who brought the tango and Castle Walk to America, and to the publisher Ralph Pulitzer. 
The nations first motor parkway, the Vanderbilt Motor Parkway, crossed Shelter Rock Road. And William K. Vanderbilt built a golf course, The Linx, on the road. It was a re-creation of St. Andrews, the famous course in Scotland. Only those personally invited by Mr. Vanderbilt himself could play on the course.
Over the years, a former Miss America, Jinx Falkenberg; a former Yankees owner, Dan Topping; the president of CBS, William S. Paley, and the movie director Lewis Haywood and his wife, the actress Maureen O'Sullivan -- mother of Mia Farrow -- built their lavish homes on the tree-lined roadway.
Many of the mansions have been replaced by split-level homes, their land sold off to build condominium projects or donated to the county. But some remain intact -- like the Whitney estate, built by William Payne Whitney, the former publisher of The New York Herald Tribune.
The industrialist J. Peter Grace also made his home on Shelter Rock Road. His expansive Palladian Estate was built in 1906 for William Singer, and later named Gracefield by the Grace family.
Mr. Grace sold the estate to a developer in the 1980's. The property is now called Gracewood. The neo-classic mansion will be used as a clubhouse for the owners of homes that will be built on the 80-acres of remaining property.
This month, Gracewood, with its crystal chandeliers and gothic arches, and neighboring Jemstone, are open for a Designer's Showcase and Holiday Boutique Show.
Three-tenths of a mile down the road from the Gracewood estate, at Jemstone, a 65-year-old English manor, 20 interior designers are showcasing their talents.
Jemstone is the former estate of Elsie and Joseph Martino of Dutch Boy Paint. Mr. Martino, the son of a Long Island shoemaker, amassed his fortune with his idea to make paint more luminous by adding titanium to it. He eventually became the chairman of the board and president of Dutch Boy Paints. Mr. Martino, died six years ago.
His Tudor-style country estate, circa 1928, now owned by his two children, is situated directly across the street from a historic cave-like rock, once used as shelter by the Indians. The rock was deposited there during the Glacial Period.
Visitors can wanderthrough period salons and bedrooms swathed with lace and silk, and through tiled kitchens and breakfast pantries, to pick up decorating ideas for their own homes.
"The concepts are here," said Arlene Travis, a producer of the showcase. For instance, she said, in the dining room Anne and Karyn Tarasoff combined dinner plates, glassware and candlesticks of various shapes and sizes to give the look of a Victorian-style dinner table. Monogrammed men's handkerchiefs bordered with Belgian lace were substituted for ordinary dinner napkins.
"People can keep these ideas in mind," Mrs. Travis said. "And when they are traveling, or visiting an antique shop, and see one candlestick that has been marked down because it is no longer part of a pair, they will have an idea of how to use it."
Many of the rooms have hand-painted designs on the walls, and artists have painted faux rugs on the floors of the hallways and breakfast room.
Kevin Mayo and Ralph DeLucci created a farmhouse-style kitchen, using a chicken motif down to the last touch, the dishtowels. The men commissioned an artist to paint a French chicken coop on white tiles they used to cover one wall. The mural was fired to make the design permanent.
"I grew up on a farm," Mr. Mayo said. "And I used chairs that did not match around the kitchen table to enhance the farm-style flavor."
"It's a really fun room," said Eleanor Andrews, a visitor from Massapequa. Mrs. Andrews and her friends, Alice Weber of North Carolina, and Rollande Johnston, also of Massapequa, said they came to Jemstone to get ideas for their own homes.
"The showcase is very unusual this year," said Mrs. Johnston, who has visited a number of the Designer Showcases over the years. "They gave us a lot of wonderful ideas we can really use."
The producer of the showcase, Mrs. Travis, and her partner, Carole Aronson, are private fund-raisers, and have been putting on Designer Showcases in mansions around Long Island for 22 years.
Mrs. Travis and Mrs. Aronson of Mansions and Millionaires, the sponsors of the showcase, said they usually chose larger homes for their Decorator Showcases. But this year, at the request of Mr. Martino's daughter, Mrs. Charles Burger, they decided to try a smaller home.
"Part of what a showcase should do for everybody is give them an appreciation of the finer things," said Mrs. Travis. "We don't have an audience of millionaires coming through the showcase. We have an audience that is mixed. Right now, we are in a recession and people are watching their dollars. We decided to try a tiny house and see how it is handled by the designers, and people love it."
The Decorator's Showcase and Holiday Boutique will be open through Dec. 12. Both events will benefit the Friends of Long Island's Heritage. Admission to Jemstone is $15, Gracewood $5 and both houses $18.
The hours for both houses are Monday through Friday, 10:30 A.M. to 4 P.M. On Thursday evenings the houses will also be open from 6 P.M. to 9 P.M. Saturday and Sunday the hours are 11 A.M. to 5 P.M. For more information call 365-7112 or 365-2211.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Visitors in the dining room, above, at Gracewood. Bedroom, top at right, at Jemstone, right, a 65-year-old English manor. The two mansions are open to the public for the Designer's Showcase and Holiday Boutique Show. (Photographs by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WU (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5064 ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES (72%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SCOTLAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (59%); 

COMPANY: GRACEWOOD ESTATE (NORTH HILLS, NY); JEMSTONE ESTATE (NORTH HILLS, NY) SINGER SEWING MACHINE CO (72%); WESTERN UNION CO (58%); NEW YORK YANKEES (56%); NEW YORK YANKEES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GRACEWOOD ESTATE (NORTH HILLS, NY); JEMSTONE ESTATE (NORTH HILLS, NY) NEW YORK YANKEES (56%); NEW YORK YANKEES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SCOTLAND (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (59%); 

SUBJECT: MANSIONS; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; SHOWS (EXHIBITS) HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); CHILDREN (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (73%); GOLF (70%); CONDOMINIUMS (70%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (67%); INTERIOR DECORATING (57%); FILM DIRECTORS (53%); 

PERSON: PULITZER, LISA BETH MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



789 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 6; Column 6; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: Businesses Find New Sources Of Credit

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
WHEN the Cannondale Corporation was looking for a $30 million line of credit this year to expand its Redding-based bicycle manufacturing business, it didn't go to a bank. Instead, the company's financial consultant, Michael R. Carter, managing director of Carter & Company in Fairfield, arranged for the loan from Barclay's Business Credit in Glastonbury, a commercial credit arm of the England-based Barclay's Bank.
"Commercial credit companies have been gaining market share here in Connecticut dramatically since 1989," Mr. Carter said, "when the credit crunch really started." 
 Many businesses, large and small, are turning to sources of credit other than banks, because bankers say they no longer have as much money to lend as they did a few years ago, and because the money available from banks is under stricter regulatory controls.
Mr. Carter estimates that 50 to 75 percent of his clients have tried a bank first for credit, "but they get their head handed to them, and then they walk over here."
 
$10 Million in Sales
 The director of research for the Connecticut Business and Industry Association, Peter M. Gioia, recently conducted a series of seminars on credit for business people throughout the state, and heard the repeated lament that banks are not writing many loans. "If you're a business with $10 million in annual sales, the banks will talk to you," Mr. Gioia said. "But if you've got $500,000 a year in sales, it's difficult to get the financial support that you need."
Although the state's Department of Banking does not keep statistics, the department, banking associations and finance professionals all agree that as banks attempt to recover from the real estate loan disasters of the late 1980's and early 1990's, non-traditional lenders are steadily gaining market share. In addition, nearly 30 banks have failed or been taken over in the last few years, which means fewer banks are writing loans, further limiting the market.
The president of the Connecticut Bankers Association, Gerald M. Noonan, said it was not solely the banks' fault that they have become more restrictive in lending. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which has been bailing out failed banks by the hundreds, has made it much more difficult for banks to write loans, while commercial credit companies are unregulated.
 
Impact of Regulations
 "When's the F.D.I.C. been in to examine their books? What are they paying for deposit insurance? How many C.R.A. projects are they doing?" Mr. Noonan asked. (The Community Reinvestment Act is a law requiring banks to invest in communities where they receive deposits.)
"With all that regulation, sometimes it's just easier not to write a loan," Mr. Noonan said. "A lot of those close calls are being lost. No one wants to write a loan and have to take over the business a year from now."
Mr. Noonan said that while his association does not keep figures specific to Connecticut, what is happening in the state mirrors a nationwide trend. Over the last 20 years, banks' share of the financial service market has slipped to about 26 percent from more than 40 percent, he said.
Some financial experts believe that unless the trend turns around soon, banks could lose their share of the commercial credit market, as companies get used to doing business with nontraditional lending institutions.
 
'Snarfing Up the Business'
 A professor of finance at the University of Connecticut in Storrs, Lewis Mandell, said there were "firms that are far more service-oriented that are out there snarfing up the business, and they aren't tied up with passbooks and depositors and the other things a bank has to deal with. The commercial credit companies can focus only on their loan customers."
Dr. Mandell said commercial credit companies can do asset-based lending in which the size of the loan depends on the company's accounts receivables. "Somebody has to be looking at the receivables all the time, and making sure the loan is secure," he said. "That's a lot of paper shuffling, and banks just aren't set up to do it."
Banks are becoming very general financial-service businesses, unable to compete with specialized services like commercial credit companies. For instance, Dr. Mandell pointed out, Bank of America is on the verge of selling off its credit card division, a business it pioneered, because it does not have the specialized data processing services needed to manage it.
 
Increasing Frustration
 Dr. Mandell said in the last couple of months, he has seen indications that banks are starting to get back into the commercial credit arena. But it may be too late, because businesses are becoming increasingly frustrated with the tight money situation at most banks, he said. "If you're going to make your customers mad, and your customers survive, it's going to be a long time before they come back to you," Dr. Mandell said. "Why in the world would they want to come back to the bank that said 'No'?"
The vice president and chief financial officer for Cornucopia Natural Foods in Killingly, Steven H. Townsend, said that when he arranged for a $13 million line of credit this year, he ended his long-term relationship with a bank and went with a commercial credit company. "We had an offer of credit from the bank but not at the level we required," he said.
Mr. Townsend said while the bank would give him a loan based on the company's 16-year history, the credit company came in and looked at his accounts receivable, business plan and other factors. "They do their homework ahead of time, get comfortable with the company's risks and management, and then they're ready to do the deal," he said. "You'd never get that with a bank."
 
'You Never Say Never'
 Mr. Townsend said that if he has to arrange financing any time in the near future, he would go directly to a commercial lender, even before he investigates a bank. "You never say never," he said. "But if existing attitudes don't change, I can't see us ever going back to a bank for financing."
The president of a business brokerage firm called Venture Resource Group Inc. in Waterbury, Ronald R. Zemper, said that when it came to selling a business, banks were often not involved at all. "In order to effect a transfer of a business these days, the seller has to end up being the financing source," he said. "There's not a lot of banks writing loans to buy a business these days. The best you can hope for is partial financing, maybe to use as a down payment, if you put up the equipment as collateral."
Mr. Gioia said he had heard numerous anecdotes about how tough it is to coax credit from a bank during his recent seminars, and he agreed that the damage is considerable. "It's going to be something that's a continual challenge to the banks, to repair and re-cultivate these relationships," he said.
Some credit companies have started to give Connecticut more consideration because of the lending void left by troubled banks.
 
State Still in 'Tough Times'
 Barclay's, for instance, "is starting to pay more attention to Connecticut because of what's going on in the marketplace," said the company's senior vice president, William E. Swindells. Businesses that are good credit risks are still having trouble getting money from banks, which gives Barclay's an opportunity, he said. "Credit is probably tighter in Connecticut than in the rest of the northeast," he said. "Connecticut is still going through its tough times."
Mr. Carter, who arranged the loan for Cannondale through Barclay's, said commercial credit companies offer some other advantages for businesses. The Cannondale loan, for instance, took less than 30 days to process. "That would never, ever have happened with a bank," Mr. Carter said. "They're just not set up to move that fast." Commercial credit is often more flexible with terms and conditions, he said, and commercial loan officers will work nights and weekends to work out a deal, something many banks are just starting to do.
Dr. Mandell said some commercial credit companies may have stepped up their lending activity because they sense the worst of the state's economic problems are over. "A degree of what we might call business Darwinism has taken place," he said. "The companies that were weak have already gone under, and the companies that are left are lean and mean and good credit risks."
And some financial experts note that no matter how much business credit companies grab during the banks' troubled period, there will be room for the banks to rebound when they get back to normal.
"There are alternate sources of funds out there, but they're not putting out enough to make up for the more normal sources of funds," said Alvin J. Epstein, the managing director of Fowler, Goedecka, Ellis & O'Connor Co. of Westport, which services a $500 million loan portfolio. "The venture capital companies are out there, but they can't come anywhere near what the banks used to do."
Mr. Epstein said he was sure that banks would come back strong in the commercial credit markets eventually, but in the meantime "I don't know where small companies are going to get the money they need to grow."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (90%); BARC (LSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (90%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (81%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); ENGLAND (72%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

CITY: LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (56%); 

COMPANY: CANNONDALE CORP (91%); BARCLAYS PLC (90%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (81%); CONNECTICUT BUSINESS & INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT BUSINESS & INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (91%); ENGLAND (72%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (56%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (89%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANKING LAW (77%); MARKET SHARE (75%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); REAL ESTATE (72%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



790 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: West Indians In Pursuit of the American Dream

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

DATELINE: MOUNT VERNON

 BODY:
WHEN Monica Watson began her long shopping list a week ago for the 60 guests expected for Thanksgiving dinner, she included more than just the traditional turkey and trimmings. The menu for the holiday this year was also to include delicacies like curried mutton and Jamaican spice cake -- favorite dishes from the land of her childhood.
Mrs. Watson, 49, said she was proud to be the hostess to a large and extended family of relatives from her native Jamaica who have settled in the United States. And this year, she said, the holiday dinner would be served in the grand dining room of the home she and her husband, Vernon, 51, recently purchased -- a sprawling 13-room, turn-of-the-century house on North Columbus Avenue here. 
 Mrs. Watson is the treasurer of the 100-member All Islands Association in Mount Vernon, a social and fund-raising organization, and she manages real estate properties in addition to her studies. Her husband is a truck driver who transports automobiles. They are among 7,432 Mount Vernon residents whose roots reach into the West Indies.
 
From the Bronx to Westchester
 In all of Westchester, there are 19,965 West Indians, accounting for 2.5 percent of the county's population, according to the 1990 census.
The Watsons were married in Jamaica. They left the parish of St. Mary (near Ocho Rios) in Jamaica, where each had grown up, 25 years ago and settled first in the Bronx, raising a family and integrating into a new culture. They worked hard to achieve their vision of the American dream, and they have three children, Gregory 24, Vanessa, 22, and Tarsha, 16.
"Like most other West Indians, we are mainstreamers," Mrs. Watson said. "When in Rome, we do as the Romans, because the best way of living happily in a new culture is to integrate."
Although there are mementos from the past throughout the house, and broad-leafed crotons -- tropical plants -- grace the sun porch, Mrs. Watson has decorated her home in a style that reflects more of the family's current eclectic life than its heritage. The furniture is of French design; the rugs are Persian, and the books in the library are from Mrs. Watson's studies at the College of New Rochelle, where she is taking psychology courses toward a bachelor's degree.
 
A Blending of Old and New
 In the kitchen, where the family was organizing the Thanksgiving menu, the refrigerator held the usual supermarket provisions, although there were also jars of Jamaican home-cooked peppers, called Scotch Banning, which Mrs. Watson uses to flavor fish and other dishes.
"It is a blending of the old and the new life," she said of both the new home and the food she would serve for the holidays. "My father, a Baptist minister, taught his children the value and dignity of hard work, and I have put those parts of my past to use in this country."
Although Haitians, Jamaicans and other immigrants from the islands have settled throughout Westchester -- in Yonkers, White Plains, New Rochelle, Greenburgh and Ossining -- by far the largest concentration of people from the West Indies is in Mount Vernon, a city that Mayor Ronald A. Blackwood calls a "successful mosaic" of many cultures.
The Mayor, himself an immigrant from Jamaica, said that most West Indians come to the United States "for the same reason anyone leaves another country for this one -- to better their quality of life, to improve themselves, to change."
Like the Watsons, Beris Henry, a restaurateur and caterer, also immigrated from St. Mary Parish in Jamaica. Since 1979, he has worked throughout Westchester as a chef and has attended restaurant management school. He opened his own business in 1988 -- B & C Restaurant and Caterers -- on busy South Sixth Street here, where he serves Jamaican specialties like curried goat, brown stew chicken and steamed fish to customers, including Mayor Blackwood, from many different cultures.
"We are a private people," said the 39-year-old Mr. Henry, a former amateur cricket player from a country where that sport is the rage. "And we are also very proud and ambitious. We know what we want from life."
 
Currency Devaluation a Factor
 West Indians are generally defined as people of African descent from the English, French and Dutch-speaking Caribbean Islands as well as from Belize in Central America and Guyana in South America.
About 34 percent of all immigrants to the United States who settle in New York State come from the West Indies, said Dr. J. A. George Irish, executive director of the Caribbean Research Center of Medgar Evers College in Brooklyn. More than two million people of West Indian descent live in the state, with most of them in Brooklyn, Queens, Manhattan and the Bronx.
Since 1965, when immigration laws were eased for people from the Caribbean, many have come to this country to study. Their numbers have grown especially strong in recent years, as West Indian countries have seen a devaluation of their currencies and residents there have had difficulty maintaining their standard of living.
Dr. Irish said that the economic difficulties at home have led to a newer wave of emigration, particularly among working people and farmers, and he estimated that more than 800,000 West Indians now live in or close to New York City.
 
Racial Hostility Cited
 Once in this country, many of the men seek jobs in the construction industry, although such jobs have become scarce since the recession. Female immigrants typically seek employment as domestic workers or as nursing assistants.
As Mrs. Watson described it, "We start off with bottom-of-the-ladder jobs and work our way up."
One of the biggest problems for West Indian immigrants, Dr. Irish said, has been an ongoing climate of racial hostility. "We dare not close our eyes to the fact that color makes a difference, and that is something white European immigrants do not experience," he said.
That was also the case for Mrs. Watson's generation, she said. "It was a shock for us coming to this country from a culture where the differences were not about black or white but about class," she said.
Because of racial issues, Dr. Watson said he believed it was important for West Indians to align themselves with other American blacks. "There is no way Caribbeans can isolate themselves from African-Americans politically or socially because we are fighting the same racism and the same need for a place to survive and prosper," he said.
 
Youth Organization Planned
 Mayor Blackwood, who has lived in the United States for nearly 40 years, said he is seeing a new and disturbing trend among younger West Indians moving to this country: their growing involvement in crime.
"It used to be that a judge never saw a Jamaican come before the court, and that is not so anymore," the Mayor said. "It is like 'Come and join the American land and the American way' means all kinds of things nowadays, like gangs and drugs -- things we never heard of years ago."
Mr. Henry, the restaurateur, said he is planning to start a local Caribbean association for West Indian youths in Mount Vernon.
"I'm not a politically oriented person," he said, "but as a people, we need togetherness. Those of us who are established here need to be role models for the next generation, to help them find their way."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Monica Watson and her daughter Tarsha with Dr. Thoulton Surgeon at the First Presbyterian Church in Mount Vernon. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAMAICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (94%); HAITI (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: WEST INDIES METAL PRODUCTS LTD (85%); WEST INDIES GLASS CO LTD (85%); WEST INDIES OIL CO LTD (85%); WEST INDIES NUTRITIONAL CORP (85%); WEST INDIES CORP (85%); WEST INDIES CANDY CO (85%); WEST INDIES SYNTHETICS LTD (85%); WEST INDIES PUBLISHING LTD (85%); WEST INDIES PULP & PAPER LTD (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES; CARIBBEAN AREA; HAITI; JAMAICA (WEST INDIES); MOUNT VERNON (NY); WEST INDIES JAMAICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (94%); HAITI (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; SURVEYS AND SERIES THANKSGIVING (90%); FAMILY (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (77%); CHILDREN (76%); FUNDRAISING (73%); COUNTIES (71%); CENSUS (68%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (67%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (65%); IMMIGRATION (59%); INTERIOR DECORATING (57%); POPULATION SIZE (56%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



791 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 28, 1993

SECTION: Section 7; Page 19; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Art to Snuggle Under

BYLINE: By Patricia T. O'Conner; Patricia T. O'Conner, an editor at the Book Review, is a quilter and a textile collector.

 BODY:

THE AMERICAN QUILT
A History of Cloth and Comfort 1750-1950.
By Roderick Kiracofe
with Mary Elizabeth Johnson.
Illustrated. 290 pp. New York:
Clarkson Potter Publishers. $60. 
 THERE was a time when Americans came into the world swaddled in quilts and left it the same way, wrapped in a favorite old quilt or "comfort" and laid into a rough board coffin, tucked in for all eternity. When Americans moved west, quilts went with them, padding the floors and insulating the sides of covered wagons, lining the walls of sod huts or log cabins. Quilts went to war, and at least one -- mailed home to Limestone County, Ala., to the grieving mother who made it -- became the tattered and stained memorial to a soldier's final hours.
The enduring romance of the quilt, its legitimacy as an art form and its importance in American domestic life have been the subjects of many excellent books in the last 20 years. ("Quilts in America," by Patsy Orlofsky and Myron Orlofsky, and "Amish: The Art of the Quilt," with text by Robert Hughes and commentary by Julie Silber, are two of the best.) And a surge in academic interest has led social historians as well as scholars in art history, textile design and preservation, women's studies, black history and other fields to break new ground in dozens of specialty areas. Research by Cuesta Benberry and by Gladys-Marie Fry into slave quilts and African-American needlework traditions is an example of this lively emerging scholarship.
Now "The American Quilt: A History of Cloth and Comfort 1750-1950," by Roderick Kiracofe with Mary Elizabeth Johnson, offers a profusely illustrated survey that ingeniously weaves the threads of America's social, political, economic and industrial history into the evolution of the quilt-making arts. Several cherished myths, dear to our hearts, are deflated along the way.
"Quilted" clothing (made of a top and a backing fabric, stitched together with padding in between) goes back thousands of years, to the ancient Egyptians. Quilted bed coverings in Europe, the authors say, can be traced to 16th- and 17th-century Portuguese and English traders who brought from East India padded coverlets or "whole cloth" quilts of muslin or chintz. These expensive imports were luxury goods, rare items in the 17th-century English household. But the Industrial Revolution was to a large extent a revolution in the production of textiles, and the pieces of cloth that were stitched by the fireside came to represent sweeping changes in the larger world. By the late 18th century, with the mechanization of the English textile industry and French innovations in dyes, mass-produced, colorfast printed cottons became widely available. England's biggest export market was America, which in turn supplied raw materials for the English mills.
So important was this trade -- vast quantities of indigo and thousands of tons of raw ginned cotton a year going in one direction, millions of yards of printed cotton fabrics in the other -- that it continued right through the War of Independence. It was these finished goods, first from English mills and later from American ones, that went into American quilts, not homespun or even home-woven material.
In fascinating detail, "The American Quilt" explains how the technological advances of the 19th century stimulated artistic innovation. Fierce competition to perfect dyes widened the color palette (the inventor who succeeded in synthesizing indigo in 1880 was later awarded a Nobel Prize); this color explosion, along with the sewing machine, which was in general use by the 1860's, inspired the outpouring of the pieced block designs that are emblematic of American patchwork.
Meanwhile, political and social reform found its way into quilts. Church sewing circles and needlework societies devoted to abolition, temperance and woman suffrage expressed their political sentiments in their stitchery ("May the points of our needles prick the slave owner's conscience" was a popular motto) and sold quilts to raise money for their causes. The women of the South, according to the authors, made and sold quilts to help pay for three Confederate gunboats during the Civil War (the Charleston, the Fredericksburg and the Georgia), while in the North, seamstresses supplied the Union Army with a quarter of a million quilts.
But this book's chief importance is its insistence that the primary impulse behind the American quilt-making tradition was creative, not pragmatic. The image of the impoverished needle woman painstakingly constructing warm bed cov erings out of bits and pieces left over from more important projects, and stumbling across a pleasing visual effect in the process, is a fiction.
Yes, leftover scraps sometimes went into quilts, but scrap quilts were the exception, not the rule. For the most part, women bought fabrics intended just for quilts and planned color and design elements accordingly. Some fabrics, in fact, were manufactured and marketed specifically for use in quilts. And yes, quilts were functional and useful. But woven blankets were inexpensive, they were just as warm and they could be bought ready-made. The authors, both of whom have written previous books about quilts, puncture another myth, the quilt as an economic necessity, by demonstrating that in the early 19th century, quilt ownership increased in direct proportion to rising household wealth. Homemade quilts were not the resort of the poor, but conscious works of art, domestic totems that grew out of creativity, not frugality and need.
This handsome book (designed by Adriane Stark, with photographs by Sharon Risedorph) persuades us that "women's primary reason for making quilts was to satisfy the need to make something beautiful. . . . Quilts were to their makers what canvas and oils were to the Impressionist painters."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Detail from "Couples," a late-19th-century quilt attributed to Mary Jane Batson and her granddaughter, Mariah Chapman. (FROM "THE AMERICAN QUILT")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: AMERICAN QUILT, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); ENGLAND (79%); PORTUGAL (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); ENGLAND (79%); PORTUGAL (68%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS QUILTS & QUILTING (93%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HISTORY (90%); TEXTILES (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); FABRIC MILLS (78%); FABRICS (78%); COTTON FABRICS (78%); ART HISTORY (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); WRITERS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); TEXTILE MFG (70%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (69%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (66%); TEXTILE MILLS (65%); EXPORT TRADE (60%); 

PERSON: O'CONNER, PATRICIA T; KIRACOFE, RODERICK; JOHNSON, MARY ELIZABETH

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993



792 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 29, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: Why This Country Still Needs to Cut Spending

 BODY:

To the Editor:
"A Dangerous Deficit Bill" (editorial, Nov. 22) alleges that the spending cuts that were advocated in a bill by Representatives Timothy J. Penny, a Missouri Democrat, and John R. Kasich, an Ohio Republican, are dangerous because they would have thwarted the Administration's investment plans. I disagree, though the bill was narrowly defeated by the House, 219 to 213 (news article, Nov. 23). 
 The Administration's plans for investment are admirable and well intended. But the premise behind the Penny-Kasich plan, and of the Kerrey-Brown plan in the Senate, is that the best national investment plan is to cut Federal spending and free capital for private sector investment. The best evidence for this hypothesis is that new Government borrowing consumes $3 out of every $4 in national savings -- savings that would be used to invest in the economy and create jobs if they were not being gobbled up by the Government.
You state that further cuts are unnecessary because Congress made a tough decision last August to cut spending -- for example, you note, increases in nondefense discretionary spending will be held to the rate of inflation over the next five years.
This is a choice specimen of Beltway thinking. Decreeing that spending increase only at the rate of inflation is a far cry from cutting spending, which is what the economy needs. Even with the August reconciliation bill, the deficit is projected at $253 billion in fiscal year 1994 and remains at $200 billion in 1998.
Nevertheless, you are right to point out that Congress took a difficult and important step forward last August. Now it is time to stop this frenzy of self-congratulation and to take another one.
 
BOB KERREY
U.S. Senator from Nebraska
Washington, Nov. 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); INFLATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); JOB CREATION (53%); 

PERSON: KERREY, BOB (SEN); PENNY, TIMOTHY J (REPR); KASICH, JOHN R (REPR) JOHN KASICH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1993



793 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:
A Warm End to the Cold War
Congress acknowledged the end of the "Evil Empire," repealing laws and regulations that suggested an adversarial relationship with the former Soviet Union. Page B7.
 
Making Faculty Stars Work
 With students unhappy about the inaccessibility of Nobel Prize winners and authors, universities are finding ways to tempt celebrity professors out of their ivory towers. Page A15.
 
 
34 Athletes Abandon Castro
 Members of the Cuban delegation at the Central American and Caribbean Games in Puerto Rico have defected, fueling speculation that a major walkout may occur. Page A12.
 
 
Trouble for Korean Groceries
New York City's economic downturn has hurt the city's Korean groceries, with declining sales forcing many of them out of business. Page B1.
 
 
Japanese Stocks Plunge
The slide in Japanese stocks continued. The Nikkei index dropped more than 1,000 points, or 6 percent, before rebounding somewhat. Page D1.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CUBA (90%); PUERTO RICO (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (90%); PUERTO RICO (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (54%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); NOBEL PRIZES (87%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (85%); STOCK INDEXES (85%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); WRITERS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1993



794 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1719 words

HEADLINE: Japanese, in a Painful Recession, Trim Industrial Research Outlays

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Nov. 28

 BODY:
After years of rapidly expanding their technology, Japanese companies are beginning to trim spending on research and development, an area that until recently had been considered sacred.
The cutbacks, if they continue, could threaten Japan's long-term competitiveness at a time when manufacturing of less advanced products is migrating to countries with lower wages and when this country's future depends more than ever on innovation. 
 The slowdown, brought about by the nation's severe recession, could also mean that Japan will not, as some American analysts have feared, pull rapidly ahead of the United States in corporate spending on research and development.
From 1981 to 1991, Japanese industry increased its research and development budget about 10 percent a year, or 167 percent for the decade, compared to 119 percent for American companies. By some analyses, Japan has caught up with the United States as a world leader in industrial research and development spending, which accounts for the bulk of new-product development.
But now, companies are holding spending level, or in some cases reducing it. In many cases, they are scaling back low-priority or long-term research to marshal their resources behind projects that offer the more immediate chance of making money.
 
Dampening of Innovative Spirit
 When the new superconductors -- materials that can carry electricity without resistance -- tantalized the scientific world a few years ago, for instance, Sumitomo Electric Industries leaped into the long-distance race to develop high-capacity electric wires, ultrasensitive sensors and other products using the materials. But now Sumitomo, whose fervent pace and blizzard of patent applications had alarmed competitors, is reducing the number of scientists working on superconductors by about 15 percent.
Japan's research and development spending remains substantial, of course, and what has been trimmed so far has largely been fat, not bone. Sumitomo Electric, for instance, has curtailed its search for superconductors. But it is still actively developing wires using already known superconductors, an endeavor in which it is a world leader. Such wires might one day be used to make highly efficient electric power lines or strong electromagnets.
Many Japanese companies, which are known for their emphasis on long-term growth rather than short-term profits, are trying to spare the research and development budget from the ax, or even eke out a small increase, as they slash capital spending, entertainment expenses, overtime pay and even regular employment. This reflects the importance attached here to research, and the recognition that developing new hit products could be the best ticket out of the economic slump.
"If we cut research and development, we are cutting our future," said Minoru Morio, executive deputy president of the Sony Corporation, using words that are echoed by many Japanese executives. Sony's development budget is rising 1 percent this year. Mitsubishi Kasei, Japan's largest chemical company, has held spending level for several years at a time the company has been running in the red.
But some companies, caught in what may wind up being the worst economic downdraft since the years soon after World War II, have been unable to hold out against the near-term pressures of falling profits, or even losses.
"A few years ago, research and development was a holy area -- they could not touch it," said Takeshi Ito, an official of Japan's Agency of Industrial Science and Technology. "But now they have to touch that area."
 
Some Noticeable Reductions
 Fujitsu Ltd., the country's largest computer company, is cutting its research and development budget this year 14 percent, to about $2.5 billion, because it is suffering severe losses. Hitachi and NEC, two other electronics giants, recently announced smaller cuts.
The Ministry of International Trade and Industry, in a survey of 28 big companies, found that total spending would be down 1.9 percent this year, after a decline of 5.6 percent in the 1992 fiscal year. Some private surveys do not show spending dropping that much, and one predicts a slight increase. But if the Trade and Industry Ministry is correct, this recession will be the first one in which research spending has been reduced.
The United States is ahead of Japan in total spending on research and development, when combining outlays from industry, governments and universities. But in relation to the size of the economy, Japan says it leads the world, with spending running 3 percent of its gross national product in 1991, compared with 2.65 percent in the United States. In 1991, the United States spent $145.3 billion, according to the National Science Foundation, while Japan spent 13.77 trillion yen, or $102 billion, using the exchange rates that year.
However, in Japan, where there is little military research and where universities are not the strong and autonomous sources of research that some big American colleges are, industry research accounts for about three-quarters of the total. In the United States, the Government provides about 40 percent of what is spent, with roughly half of that military-related.
 
Comparisons Hard to Make
 In industrial research alone, Japan spent 10.25 trillion yen, or $76 billion, in 1991, roughly similar to spending by American industry of $78.8 billion.
Comparisons, though, are tricky. The National Science Foundation prefers a currency-conversion formula that accounts for the relative purchasing power of different currencies. Under such a formula, Japan's industrial research spending would be only about two-thirds that of the United States.
Whether Japan's slowdown will help the United States remains to be seen. Growth in American industrial research is slow, and some companies are cutting back. The International Business Machines Corporation, suffering from problems similar to Fujitsu's, slashed its spending on research and development by $1 billion, or 17 percent, this year. In superconductors, some American companies have also scaled back substantially.
 
Technology Budget
 While corporate research has stopped expanding, the Japanese Government has increased its budget for science and technology 6.2 percent this year, to 2.27 trillion yen -- about $21 billion. Government spending is weighted more toward basic research and includes some big projects like fusion and other nuclear energy research.
Technology projects backed by the Government, for which Japan is famous, have fallen out of favor to some extent because the companies have grown so big that they no longer need Government funds. But now, some officials predict, companies will become more receptive to financing from Tokyo.
"Computer makers want to now ask the Japanese Government to pay more to establish national projects," said Toshio Yokoi, director of the Japan Electronic Dictionary Research Institute, a national project in computerized language translation.
To avoid cutting back research personnel or projects, Japanese companies are first invoking economies like restricting travel to conferences or delaying purchases of laboratory equipment.
"We are squeezing water from the towel," said Tokuta Inoue, a managing director of the Toyota Motor Corporation. Fujitsu is collaborating more with other companies to cut costs and still get the same results, said Mikio Ohtsuki, senior executive vice president.
 
Pressure for Products
 Many companies are cutting long-term basic research in favor of development of products.
"Every research laboratory feels the pressure to have immediate products," said Morio Onoe, executive vice president and director of research at the Ricoh Company.
Dr. Onoe, a physicist, said the office equipment company was still doing long-term research related to its core imaging business but had trimmed such research in other areas. It has reduced the number of scientists who work on exotic new semiconductors to a handful, from more than 30.
Japan Synthetic Rubber has suspended biotechnology research. "In the economic slump, the efforts appeared too costly and could not be expected to bear fruit in the immediate future," a spokesman said.
In the 1980's, some leading Japanese companies began doing more basic research, believing that they could no longer thrive by merely making products based on advances pioneered in the West. Some of these large Japanese companies also opened laboratories in the United States and Europe. NEC, which took part in both trends, said it would not cut back either fundamental research or its laboratory in Princeton, N.J. Spokesmen for Hitachi, Toshiba and the Victor Company of Japan also said that they were not reducing activities at their American research centers.
Other projects are being eliminated because Japanese concerns, which went on a diversification binge when times were good, now find themselves having to concentrate on fewer businesses.
Sapporo Breweries Ltd. closed its pharmaceutical research center this year when it decided to abandon a move into the cancer drug business.
Sumitomo Electric used to devote only half of its research and development budget to existing businesses, with the other half going to diversification or basic research. Sumitomo, Japan's leading electrical wire and cable producer, expanded into optical fibers, synthetic diamonds, artificial blood vessels and other products.
 
 
'Not Too Successful'
 Now, the Osaka-based Sumitomo, while holding its overall research and development spending at about $275 million, is increasing the share for existing businesses to 60 percent.
"In the 1980's, we stressed new-business creation too much," said Nobuo Yumoto, managing director. "Some of the new projects were not too successful."
The company is curtailing development of automated cell-growing machines. Researchers who have been doing advanced organic chemistry are being moved to advanced wires and insulators.
In superconductors, Sumitomo Electric has cut back from 42 scientists to 35. Instead of searching by itself for materials able to achieve superconductivity at higher temperatures, it will rely on the International Superconductivity Technology Center, a consortium largely financed by the Japanese Government.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 5802 (TSE) (82%); SON (LSE) (80%); SNE (NYSE) (80%); 6758 (TSE) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335921 FIBER OPTIC CABLE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS332618 OTHER FABRICATED WIRE PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (80%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (80%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: SUMITOMO ELECTRIC INDUSTRIES LTD (82%); SONY CORP (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (89%); SUPERCONDUCTORS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); TRENDS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); OVERTIME (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); PATENTS (73%); CHEMICALS (72%); CHEMICALS MFG (72%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1993



795 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 29, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Political Prisoner Is Apparently Winner in Honduran Elections

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras, Nov. 28

 BODY:
Carlos Roberto Reina, who was arrested four times and spent six months in solitary confinement for political activity in the 1970's, appeared to win election as President of Honduras today, defeating Oswaldo Ramos Soto.
Late this evening, Mr. Ramos conceded defeat. However, official results were not expected until Tuesday. . 
 The two candidates represented the major parties here. Mr. Reina leads a progressive wing of the Liberal Party, whereas Mr. Ramos said he counted most on the conservative, old-line elements of the ruling National Party.
The challenge for the new President is to recover from the economic and political difficulties left in the wake of the 1980's when Honduras went from a third-world backwater to a key player in a cold world struggle between the United States and Central American revolutionary movements. Mr. Reina also faces a tradition of political interference by the armed forces and corruption by public officials.
 
Cut in Military Planned
 Mr. Reina, an urbane attorney who is well thought of by Honduran human-rights groups, said in an interview prior to his victory that he would reduce the size of the armed forces. He also said he would vigorously investigate charging of military involvement in narcotics trafficking, and expressed disapproval of the tradition under which military officers have immunity from prosecution for crimes.
Such positions could put him in a confrontation with the military, still considered a very potent force here.
The losing candidate, Mr. Ramos, told a reporter before the election that should he win, he would not oblige the armed forces to effect reforms to which they were strongly opposed, because if he did so the military would remove him from office.
Mr. Reina said he would make cleaning up the Government a top priority, starting with the justice system, long thought to be corrupt. "We will have a judicial power that is absolutely clean," he said.
 
Era of Civil Wars
 This is the country's first election since the end of the wars in Nicaragua and El Salvador that divided the region and brought Honduras thousands of United States troops, more than $1 billion in American aid, and hundreds of Central Intelligence Agency operatives.
Washington's intention was to turn Honduras into a reliable platform from which the Nicaraguan rebels, known as contras, could attack the Sandinista Government. Now, however, American attention has turned elsewhere, and Hondurans are assessing whether they have been beneficiaries or pawns of United States interests.
"The position of the majority of the population is worse now," said Mr. Reina. "There is more poverty, even misery, and less health, less education. The foreign debt has increased now."
While Honduras's neighbors, El Salvador and Nicaragua, have greatly reduced the size of their armies, the incumbent President here, Rafael Leornardo Callejas, has cut the military budget little. The military has turned to business investments that bring its officers economic security and political influence.
Using the military pension fund, the armed forces have bought businesses worth more than $50 million, according to Juan Ferrera, president of the Honduran Private Enterprise Council.
 
Criticism From Washington
 United States officials have begun to criticize the Honduran military. Many Hondurans, including Mr. Reina, say that the reason for this change is that the United States no longer needs the Honduran military to insure a pliant Honduran Government.
Throughout the 1980's, according to Gen. Walter Lopez, who was elected to one of the three vice presidential posts today and is a former chief of the armed forces, "the United States got whatever it wanted." At the same time, American diplomats sternly defended Honduran officials against charges they trampled human rights.
However, in a report last year, the State Department demonstrated a new point of view by declaring, "the people who run the Government, both military and civilian, have very little interest in police or judicial reform."
 
Most Hondurans Poorer
 There are small signs of improvement. This year, a colonel was convicted in the rape and murder of a 17-year-old student. Human rights groups say it is the first time a high-ranking officer was convicted of a crime against a civilian.
But even after some $1.4 billion in American assistance in the 1980's, most of the five million Hondurans may be worse off economically. The annual per capita income fell from $720 in 1985 to $580 in 1991, according to the World Bank.
The reason, say politicians and business leaders, is that much of the money was embezzled or used for programs that they say encouraged support for United States policies but have not brought Hondurans long-term benefits.
"There was a rain of dollars all over Honduras," said Mr. Ferrera, "but I think the military, the politicians and the contras took advantage of it."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: HONDURAS (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); NICARAGUA (94%); EL SALVADOR (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HONDURAS HONDURAS (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); NICARAGUA (94%); EL SALVADOR (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (78%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICAL PRISONERS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ARMED FORCES (88%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ARRESTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CRIMINAL DEFENSES (78%); ARMIES (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); CIVIL WAR (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); BUDGET CUTS (68%); IMMUNITY (68%); DEFENSE SPENDING (68%); EXTERNAL DEBT (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%); TRENDS (63%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (51%); 

PERSON: REINA, CARLOS ROBERTO; RAMOS SOTO, OSWALDO CARLOS ROBERTO REINA (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1993



796 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 1993

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
GIULIANI JOINS CALL FOR TOUGH GUN LAWS
Insisting on the need for urban reform, Republican leaders of two of the nation's largest cities -- Mayor-elect Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York City and Mayor Richard J. Riordan of Los Angeles -- said they support tough gun-control laws. They also praised President Clinton, saying they would consider campaigning for Democrats in future elections if it would help their cities. B3.
 

A NEED TO EXPAND BOUNDARIES?
Politicians who are wringing their hands over whether the city will be made less if Staten Island secedes are largely overlooking an alternative: Forget Staten Island. What about Long Island? Metro Matters by Sam Roberts. B3.
 
PERSISTENT CABBIE FOILS THIEF
A gypsy-cab driver who was robbed at gunpoint of his money and cab flagged down two police officers, who chased the car and arrested one of the two attackers, the police said. Unfortunately for the cabby, Lamine Kaba, a 30-year-old immigrant from Guinea, West Africa, the suspect crashed the stolen cab into an elevated train pillar in the Bronx. In totaling the car, the robber stole Mr. Kaba's livelihood. B2.
 
THE MOON IN THE EARTH'S SHADOW
Rain and clouds had vanished in time to yield a dazzling sight of the most widely visible lunar eclipse in 14 years. Nearly 80 of the city's moon-watchers gathered in the chill of Central Park for the occasion. B2.
 
NATURAL CLEANING
Newcomers say they come to Ecomat, a dry cleaner and laundry at 90th Street and Lexington Avenue, simply because it is convenient. It is not those "Perc-free" tags on the hangers that bring them to its door. The tags refer to per chlorethylene, or perc, a petroleum-based chemical long used in dry cleaning but classified as hazardous in the 1989 Clean Air Act. But clothes cleaned at Ecomat are perc-free because of an unlikely collaboration involving the Environmental Protection Agency and the Greenpeace environmental group that has brought a British businessman's idea to Manhattan. B2.
 
FROM AFGHANISTAN TO THE BRONX
From the battlefields of war-ravaged Afghanistan to the underground railroad millions of refugees took into Pakistan before coming to the streets of New York City, tthe life of Fareedullah Nawabi could have been a blueprint for the experience of many Afghans in America. That is, until Mr. Nawabi was arrested on charges that he has sold a virtual arsenal of firearms, along with heroin and cocaine, to undercover police officers at his business, Mama's Fried Chicken, in the East Tremont section of the Bronx. B3.
 
REGION
 
WHITMAN MUST FILL POSTS
Distracted by the political brouhaha caused by her campaign manager's post-election comments, Christine Todd Whitman still faces the formidable task of appointing dozens of people to top state jobs to carry out policies like the 30 percent income tax cut she proposed during the campaign. B5.
Plans proceed for Whitman inauguration. B5.
 
ARRESTS IN DEADLY PRANK CALL
Two New Jersey men accused of making a prank emergency call that ended with the death of a police officer may face manslaughter charges, the Bergen County prosecutor said. B5.
 
HELP FOR HARRIED PARENTS
Like most parents, Jan and Denise Visser find it a struggle to juggle their schedules and those of their children. But the Vissers, who live in Manlius, N.Y., have found help with their car-pooling problems thanks to a company called Kids Taxi. For $6 for a one-way trip, and $10 for a round trip, parents can have their children shuttled from place to place. B5.
 
CONVENTION CENTER PLAN REVIVED
Tourism officials are reviving a proposal to construct a $150 million convention center in downtown Hartford to bolster the economy and stimulate the sagging hotel industry. The plan was blocked by Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. a year and a half ago. B5.
 
Chronicle B4

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); GUINEA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); GUINEA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ROBBERY (90%); GUN CONTROL (90%); CITIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MAYORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FIREARMS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); REFUGEES (73%); ARRESTS (73%); DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (69%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (67%); IMMIGRATION (67%); HEROIN (50%); COCAINE (50%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (90%); BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1993



797 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Government Says Federal Tariffs Cost Shoppers $19 Billion Yearly

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 28

 BODY:
Protective trade tariffs on goods as diverse as ball bearings and costume jewelry cost American consumers an extra $19 billion a year, a Government study has found.
The United States International Trade Commission said high tariffs and quotas pushed up average prices in 44 sectors of the economy by 3 percent. 
 Officials at the agency, which rules on American industries' complaints of unfair trading by foreign competitors, said on Friday that the report underscored what the benefits would be if the talks aimed at lowering trade barriers globally were successfully concluded.
The talks, which began in 1986 in Uruguay, face a Dec. 15 deadline, with negotiators far apart on several issues. The discussions, involving 115 nations, are conducted by the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the world organization that governs trade.
 
The Case for Tariffs
 Economists say global output could receive a boost of $270 billion by lowering tariffs and expanding trade, but protected industries in the United States and elsewhere want to retain their trade barriers to preserve jobs.
According to the commission's report, 44 areas of the American economy receive significant protection from imports. The greatest impact of these measures was on the apparel and textile industries, where trade barriers added $15.85 billion a year to prices that consumers must pay.
The commission estimated that the average price for clothing would drop by 11.4 percent if trade barriers were removed, the largest price cut for any of the economic sectors studied.
After clothing, some of the largest price drops would be in luggage, with a projected decrease of 9.1 percent, and sugar, a projected drop of 8 percent.
The commission's report acknowledged that American jobs would be lost from the removal of trade barriers. The apparel industry alone, it said, would lose 46,724 jobs, or 6 percent of its employment. Counting all areas of textile and apparel, the report put the potential job loss at 71,369.
 
No Adverse Impact, Over All
 But the report concluded that there would be no adverse impact on overall employment in the United States. It said jobs lost in protected industries would be offset by gains in other areas of the economy because of higher consumer spending that would result from lower prices.
After apparel and textiles, the biggest price drop -- $3.09 billion in all -- would come from removing restrictions that prohibit foreign ships from carrying domestic cargo between United States ports, the report said. The change would result in a loss of 11,905 jobs in ocean shipping, but the commission said that would be more than offset by gains in related industries, as dock workers benefited from increased volume of shipping by foreign carriers.
Next, the commission found the biggest price impacts in agriculture, where trade barriers push dairy prices $847 million higher annually; sugar, $657 million; peanuts, $353 million, and meat, $177 million .
Other areas where prices were higher because of tariffs included shoes, watches, ball bearings, pressed and blown glass, costume jewelry, machine tools, frozen produce, ceramic wall and floor tiles and leather goods.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); URUGUAY (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION (US) APPAREL & TEXTILE INDUSTRIES GROUP (68%); AMERICAN INDUSTRIES LIFE INSURANCE CO (58%); AMERICAN INDUSTRIES INC (58%); US INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION (90%); US INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION (90%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (56%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION (US) US INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION (90%); US INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION (90%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (56%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (99%); URUGUAY (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) TARIFFS & DUTIES (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); TEXTILES (87%); LAYOFFS (86%); FOOD PRICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (77%); DISMISSALS (72%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (72%); GARMENT WORKERS (72%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (64%); MARINE SHIPPING (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1993



798 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1401 words

HEADLINE: Unbending Regulations Incite Move to Alter Pollution Laws

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: YORKTOWN, Va., Nov. 22

 BODY:
A three-year study of pollution and how best to clean it up at a small Amoco Corporation refinery here is prompting the Clinton Administration to consider a sharply different approach to the way the nation's environmental laws are written.
The study, conducted jointly by Amoco and the Environmental Protection Agency, found that Federal regulations forced the refinery to solve relatively minor pollution threats at major expense while far more important problems were overlooked. 
 Specifically, Amoco was required under a change in the Clean Air Act to spend $31 million to rebuild the refinery's waste water treatment plant to prevent benzene, a toxic chemical, from evaporating into the air. But investigators found that the major source of benzene pollution was coming from a part of the plant not yet addressed by the Clean Air Act: the marine terminal on the York River, where ships unload oil and load gasoline. Controlling benzene pollution there would have cost only about $6 million, the company said.
 
'Really Serious Problems'
 Using the Yorktown study as a model, the Clinton Administration plans to ask Congress for money for analyses of pollution at up to a dozen other plants serving the automobile, paper, chemical, steel and food processing industries, among others. In addition, the E.P.A. has begun examining the nation's laws that regulate air and water pollution and control hazardous wastes to try to eliminate overlapping rules that are often in conflict.
"The Yorktown project pointed up some of the really serious problems with regulation that have developed," said Carol M. Browner, the Administrator of Environmental Protection who was the top environmental official in Florida before joining the Administration.
"When I worked at the state level, I was constantly faced with rigid rules that made doing something 100 times more difficult and expensive than it needed to be. It makes no sense to have a program that raises costs and while doing nothing to reduce environmental threats."
H. Laurance Fuller, the president and chairman of Amoco, which is based in Chicago and has revenues of $28 billion a year, said industrial executives were actively supporting the Administration's work. And though they are nervous about the outcome, staff members of some of the nation's most influential environmental groups, among them the Natural Resources Defense Council, based in New York, said their organizations were also embracing the Administration's proposals.
The Clinton Administration is trying to address problems in the current approach to environmental regulation as Congress is being presented an opportunity to rewrite five of the nation's basic environmental statutes for protecting rivers, purifying drinking water, managing solid wastes, cleaning up toxic wastes and safeguarding endangered species. In some respects, the Administration wants to return to the approach to environmental regulation developed in the 1970's.
Then Congress set broad policy goals that depended on regulations for specifics. But in the 1980's because members believed that the Reagan and Bush Administrations were hostile to environmental protection, Congress itself provided the specifics and took away the discretion earlier given to agencies to write regulations.
Often some Congressional orders were based on old assumptions about where pollution occurred. Here at the Yorktown refinery, for instance, the regulation requiring the cleanup of benzene at its waste-water treatment plants was based on 1959 estimates of pollution at such plants. The Yorktown study showed those estimates to be wildly inaccurate.
When legal analysts reviewed the Yorktown study in June, they found that the environmental policies of the 1980's had swamped companies with new and wasteful regulations that left them almost no room to decide for themselves how to reduce their worst pollution problems.
Amoco executives said in interviews here that they could design equipment to control benzene pollution at the marine terminal, and that it would cost around $6 million. But Amoco will not do anything until the regulations are made final in 1995 or later. The reluctance, the executives said, is because the regulations now are so specific in defining how a company should control pollution that if the equipment did not exactly fit every requirement they might have to dismantle it, making the investment a waste.
"Look, the E.P.A. and Congress have a point about regulating benzene; it's a known carcinogen," said Randall W. Browning, the manager of environmental health and safety at Amoco's Yorktown refinery. "But what is the point of spending $31 million to solve a problem that wasn't a problem while doing nothing about the real problem? What we are looking for is a new approach. Give us a goal to meet rather than all the regulations telling us what controls to put on what sources of pollution. That worked in the 1970's, when the pollution problems were much more visible and simpler. It's not working now."
Ms. Browner said two projects were being planned by environmental officials to untangle the snarl of rules that she and other Administration officials said was both a drag on the economy and a serious threat to the credibility of environmental programs.
Both projects will focus on gathering scientific and legal data to develop a much less rigid scheme for controlling pollution. Ms. Browner said the top environmental advisers to the President had come to believe that a more flexible program would encourage innovation and reduce the cost of environmental controls.
The first project is being proposed by the President's Council on Sustainable Development, a group Mr. Clinton appointed in June to join five Cabinet officers with leaders of environmental and business groups. The council plans to ask Congress early next year for money to pay for studies of other industries like that of the Yorktown refinery. The idea is to identify more clearly the most serious pollution problems at industrial plants and to understand how regulations help and hinder efforts to control them.
 
Looking for Simplicity
 A second effort has begun at the E.P.A., where Ms. Browner and her aides are searching for novel ways to make it simpler and less expensive to comply with environmental rules. Industrial plants are now regulated under at least half a dozen separate laws, each with thousands of regulations.
The agency is developing an experimental program that will enable a few plants in different industries to consolidate all the rules in one operating manual. Ms. Browner said she hoped that one result of the project would be to identify how regulations from one law overlap with another, often with detrimental results.
"What we want to do is design environmental programs that set goals, and then give industry the opportunity to decide for themselves how to meet them," Ms. Browner said. "We can insure that this approach has credibility with the public by making sure they meet those goals with tough fines that we enforce."
The Administration's work on altering environmental policy, which in some respects is as complicated as the White House's effort to reform health care, also carries political risks.
Mr. Clinton and Vice President Al Gore enjoy unalloyed support from national environmental leaders. But several environmental leaders said they were anxious about the Administration's plans because they supported the old approach as bringing cleaner air and water.
Nevertheless, several environmental leaders said they had begun to recognize serious problems in carrying out the laws and were helping the Administration to design the proposed projects.
"We are exploring the possibility of sitting down with industry to see whether we can construct a framework," said Linda Greer, a senior scientist with the Natural Resources Defense Council. "The bottom line for us is that whatever new approach is taken, there must be no backsliding."
"What the environmental community is most worried about is that the public gets something out of this and that we are not giving something away. The appealing part of all this talk about new approaches is that we will get less pollution. What industry is saying is: 'We'll do that if you give us flexibility.' The question is this: Is there really something here or not? We think there is."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A study of pollution at an Amoco Corporation refinery in Yorktown, Va., may change the way the nation's environmental laws are written. Scott Simeo walked near the waste water treatment site at the plant. (Kirsten Bremmer for The New York Times) (pg. B7)
 
Diagram: "What Investigators Found at the Yorktown Refinery"
 
THE PROCESS
 
1. Oil is unloaded and gasoline loaded onto ships at a marine loading terminal on the York River.
 
2. Crude oil is refined.
 
3. Waste water containing benzene and other compounds is treated.
 Pollutants include benzene (15 tons) and other volatile organic compounds, which are liquids that quickly evaporate and contribute to smoge.
 Treating the waste water created during refining releases 178 tons of volatile organic compounds, including three tons of benzene, into the air annually.
 
ACTION TAKEN
 
None. Currently, the Federal Government requires no cleanup at marine loading terminals. Because of strict Federal rules on controlling pollutants, Amoco says it is reluctant to build pollution control equipment until it knows precisely what the rule will be. The cost is around $6 million.
 
Installed closed treatment system that now prevents the release of benzene and other harmful compounds. Cost for the system was $31 million.
 
(Source: The Environmental Protection Agency; Amoco) (pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AN (NYSE) (87%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: AMOCO CORP; ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) AMOCO CORP (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMOCO CORP; ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; AIR POLLUTION; WATER POLLUTION; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (92%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (91%); WATER POLLUTION (91%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (91%); AIR QUALITY (90%); AROMATICS (90%); HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); BENZENE (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (77%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (76%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (76%); WATER QUALITY (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (73%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (71%); RIVERS (68%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (67%); 

PERSON: SCHNEIDER, KEITH; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) CAROL BROWNER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1993



799 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 29, 1993

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Wave of Cuban Defections at Puerto Rican Games

BYLINE: By CHARISSE JONES

 BODY:
A father and son on the archery team were among the first to depart. They were followed by two champion weight lifters, Cuba's top female softball pitcher, and even a photographer who had apparently arrived in Puerto Rico, portfolio in hand, with defection in mind.
By yesterday evening, 34 of the 900 or so members of the Cuban delegation attending the 17th Central American and Caribbean Games in Puerto Rico had defected. And though the mounting departures are hardly an exodus, they represent enough of a trickle to fuel speculation that a major walkout may occur before the athletic contests conclude on Tuesday. 
 Despite increased security, at least 11 members of the delegation defected on Saturday, said Rescue Legion, a Cuban exile group that is helping the asylum seekers. The defections brought the total to 34 since the games began on Nov. 19.
 
To Apply for Political Asylum
 The 34 athletes plan to hold a news conference today and to apply formally for political asylum in the United States, representatives of the Rescue Legion said.
People in the Cuban delegation, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the most recent defectors included two weight lifters, Lino Elias Ocana and Emilio Lara Rodriguez, as well as two coaches; a journalist, Manuel Valle, and the pitcher, Odalys Hernandez.
The Cuban Government has not issued a statement on the defections.
The Immigration and Naturalization Service has flown an officer to Puerto Rico to process the growing number of requests for political asylum, an agency spokesman said. Under the Cuban Adjustment Act of 1966, Cubans entering United States territory can become residents a year later, without having to apply for political asylum.
Human rights experts noted that the number of Cuban defections had been increasing, with Cubans fleeing their homeland by inner-tube, raft and airplane. Still, they attributed the defections in Puerto Rico to a unique convergence of time, place and chance, as well as a growing desire to escape a repressive Government and a deteriorating economy, which has been hurt in part by the 32-year-old United States economic embargo and the loss of subsidies from the former Soviet Union.
"There are not many cultural exchanges that would permit Cuban athletes or performers to seek asylum," said Arthur C. Helton, director of the refugee project of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, in New York. "In a real sense our laws invite Cuban asylum seekers to come to the U.S."
The fact that Puerto Rico is a United States territory in which Spanish is the official language also made it an easier place for defection, said Frank Calzon, a representative for Freedom House, the human rights organization.
"If a Cuban was attempting to defect in France or Sweden, there's the problem of approaching a police officer and being understood," Mr. Calzon said. "That's not the case in Puerto Rico."
In an effort to hold on to its premier athletes, the Cuban Government had begun allowing them to keep a bigger share of athletic purses. But during the regional championships in Puerto Rico, Cuban officials have had to beef up security to try to stem defections.
Members of the delegation are counted nightly at the National Guard barracks where they are housed in Salinas, 60 miles southwest of San Juan. And in the wake of the first defections, athletes say they must now ask permission 24 hours in advance so security can be arranged before they visit friends or family in Puerto Rico.
Likening the defections to those of athletes from Communist European countries during the cold war, Mr. Calzon said it was not unusual that even the Cuban elite were seeking political asylum.
"I think the balance between fear and repression is beginning to tilt," Mr. Calzon said. "There is also a generational problem for the Castro regime. Cubans in their 20's and 30's don't care about Batista," he said, referring to Fulgencio Batista, a notoriously corrupt dictator who ruled Cuba before Fidel Castro's revolutionary movement won power in 1959.
"They know they have a Government that's ineffective and repressive, and they need to try something else," he said. "The athletes are young. If you're 20, and all Castro says is he doesn't know when things are going to get better, if you're 20 and know a friend who went to prison for writing a poem, you want to leave."
Defection is often a heart-wrenching decision, Mr. Calzon said, with those who do it leaving behind parents, spouses and children who will probably not be allowed to leave Cuba and join them. It will also mean starting a new life, far away from home.
Still, the defections in Puerto Rico may prove to be a lightning rod in the debate over political asylum. Human rights groups are quick to contrast the relative ease with which Cubans attain asylum with the difficulties faced by Haitians, who are generally returned to their island.
"It is a stark reminder of the inequitable treatment of the Haitian boat people," Mr. Helton said. "But I think the key issue is not unfair favoritism of the Cubans but unfair discrimination toward the Haitians."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Odalys Hernandez, a softball pitcher from Cuba, during a game last week in Puerto Rico. After the game, she and other athletes defected to the United States. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4424 COASTAL FREIGHT (84%); 

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (99%); CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); CENTRAL AMERICA (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%); FRANCE (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE (US) PUERTO RICO CONTAINER CO (91%); PUERTO RICO SAFETY EQUIPMENT CORP (91%); PUERTO RICO INDUSTRIAL MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS ACQUISITION CORP (91%); PUERTO RICO INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CO (91%); PUERTO RICO SUN OIL CO (91%); PUERTO RICO TELEPHONE CO (91%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (82%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE (US) IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (82%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CUBA; PUERTO RICO PUERTO RICO (99%); CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); CENTRAL AMERICA (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%); FRANCE (52%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ASYLUM (POLITICAL); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; CENTRAL AMERICAN AND CARIBBEAN GAMES POLITICAL ASYLUM (91%); SPORTS (90%); SOFTBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WEIGHTLIFTING (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US TERRITORIES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (86%); ARCHERY (78%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (74%); REFUGEES (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: JONES, CHARISSE FIDEL CASTRO RUZ (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1993



800 of 832 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 29, 1993

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
Reviews were upbeat for the traditional opening weekend of the holiday shopping season, but merchants refused to celebrate too soon. Shopping during the Thanksgiving weekend is no longer considered a good barometer because consumers now make most of their purchases in the final week of the season. [Page A1.] 
 Machine tool orders fell 8.5 percent in October from September but remained about 25 percent higher than in October 1992. Despite declining in three of the last four months, orders so far this year are still nearly 30 percent ahead of a year earlier. [D3.]
 
International
Japanese companies are beginning to trim spending on research and development, cutbacks that could threaten Japan's long-term competitiveness. [A1.]
The slide in Japanese stocks continued Monday, as investor anxieties over the economy and the Japanese Government's apparent lack of action pushed share prices lower. [D1.]
Protective trade tariffs on everything from ball bearings to costume jewelry cost American consumers an extra $19 billion a year, a Government study has found. [A14.]
 
Companies
Change is sweeping the airline business. Over the last three years, the domestic industry's loss of about $10 billion has drawn small new carriers which use low fares to lure passengers. [D1.]
Low interest rates are proving a problem for the nation's pension plans. As interest rates fall, corporations must set aside more money for pensions because the securities in their pension portfolios are expected to earn less. [D1.]
The outcome of the battle between QVC Network and Viacom for Paramount Communications is far from predictable, even though QVC won a clear victory in court last week. [D1.]
NEC is seeing profits from personal computers eroded by steep price cuts spurred by the invasion of Japan's market by aggressive American companies. [D1.]
A three-year study of pollution and how best to clean it up at an Amoco refinery is prompting the Clinton Administration to consider a new way to write the nation's environmental laws. [A1.]
 
The Media Business
K-III Holdings is returning to the spotlight with a lot of influence in the marketplace. But it needs to find editors for two of its biggest consumer magazines, New York and Seventeen. [D6.]
Five Jewish weekly newspapers are battling for New York readers and revenues, and the area's biggest Jewish philanthropy has been caught in the crossfire. [D6.]
International media companies have stepped up their activities in Latin America as economies there have opened. [D6.]
CBS Sports takes a just-folks approach to pitching its menu of professional football games. [D6.]
A game of 20 questions is inspired by some current and recent campaigns. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D7.]
 
Today's Columns
Auto sales could spur a rise in interest rates next year. Jonathan Fuerbringer: Credit Markets. [D5.]
Independent inventors see harm in the "harmonization" of global patent laws. Teresa Riordan: Patents. [D2.]
A positive case for Dell Computer combines strong demand for personal computers with the assumption that the company has solved its manufacturing problems. Market Place. [D4.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (82%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: QVC INC (82%); VIACOM INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); THANKSGIVING (89%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); MACHINE TOOLS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (72%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); AIRLINES (66%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (64%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (62%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (62%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1993

 
