

201 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: Comic-Book Idols Rally to Aid a Holocaust Artist

BYLINE: By GEORGE GENE GUSTINES

 BODY:
As all-star comic-book team-ups go, this one beats the first meeting of Superman and Spider-Man. Three of the elder statesmen of comic books -- Neal Adams, Joe Kubert and Stan Lee -- have joined forces to combat what they see as a real-world injustice.
 The men are lending their talents to tell the tale of Dina Gottliebova Babbitt, who survived two years at the Auschwitz concentration camp by painting watercolor portraits for the infamous Nazi Dr. Josef Mengele. Some of the artwork also survived, but it is in the possession of the Auschwitz-Birkenau Memorial and Museum in Poland. Now 85 and living in California, Mrs. Babbitt wants the artwork back, but the museum has steadfastly refused to return it. 
 ''I'm at a total loss,'' Mrs. Babbitt wrote in an e-mail message. ''I feel just as helpless as I did when I was at camp. Totally disempowered.'' 
 Now Mrs. Babbitt's story has been captured in a six-page comic-book story illustrated by Mr. Adams, who helped take Batman back to his dark roots after the '60s television show made him seem campy; inked partly by Mr. Kubert, whose comics career stretches back to the 1940s and who has drawn everyone from Hawkman to Sergeant Rock; and featuring an introduction by Mr. Lee, a co-creator of the Fantastic Four, the X-Men and many other Marvel heroes. 
 The text was written by Rafael Medoff, director of the David S. Wyman Institute for Holocaust Studies, which has championed Mrs. Babbitt's cause. Mr. Medoff and Mr. Adams have offered the story to DC Comics and Marvel Entertainment in the hopes of getting it published, but no deal is yet in place.
 The men first joined forces in 2006, when 450 cartoonists, artists and comic-book creators signed a petition asking the museum to return the art. ''Rafael was in my studio and talking about this project, and the signatures, and what could be done,'' said Mr. Adams, 67.
 Mr. Adams read Mr. Medoff's summary but thought it was something more. ''It told a story with economy and sincerity,'' he said. ''I realized this was a perfect script for a six-page story.'' Choosing the artist was relatively easy. ''I couldn't think of anyone better or crazy enough to do it,'' he explained. ''So I decided to draw it.''
 The story, mainly in black and white but using splashes of color whenever Mrs. Babbitt's work is shown, moves quickly from her childhood -- when she drew Mickey Mouse and Donald Duck on paper sacks -- to her arrival, with her mother, Johanna, at Auschwitz in September 1943, when she was about 20. 
 It depicts the colorful mural that Mrs. Babbitt painted in the children's barracks there. She started with Walt Disney's version of Snow White, but her audience clamored for the Seven Dwarfs as well, and some farm animals. The original mural is believed to have been destroyed, and the story uses a re-creation Mrs. Babbitt painted last year. 
 Mrs. Babbitt recently returned to her home in Felton, Calif., where she is recovering from surgery for abdominal cancer. ''I think I could have done the dwarfs a lot better then because I was young and can't paint as I used to,'' she wrote by e-mail. ''These were the only times that I was comfortable at camp, with my painting, you know. I felt human when I was painting.''
 By February 1944, Mrs. Babbitt had come to the attention of Mengele, who was dissatisfied with the photographs he had taken of the Gypsy, or Romany, prisoners in his effort to prove their genetic inferiority. He asked Mrs. Babbitt to paint their portraits to capture their skin tones better. She agreed, but only after insisting that her mother be spared from death. (The story reproduces five of the portraits.) 
 The final two pages move from the liberation by Allied troops in 1945 to her life in the United States, where she worked for 17 years as an assistant animator for many Hollywood studios, including MGM and Warner Brothers, working on the likes of Daffy Duck and Speedy Gonzalez.
 Auschwitz museum officials, in a statement issued in 2001, indicated that they had bought six of Mrs. Babbitt's watercolors in 1963 from an Auschwitz survivor and acquired a seventh in 1977. In 1973 the museum asked her to verify her work but did not offer to return the items. The museum has argued that the artwork is important evidence of the Nazi genocide and part of the cultural heritage of the world. (The museum did not respond to telephone calls and an e-mail message requesting comment.) 
 Others have come to Mrs. Babbitt's defense, including Representative Shelley Berkley, Democrat of Nevada. In 2002 she sponsored a resolution in the House of Representatives urging State Department involvement. In 2006 she also pleaded the artist's case before Congress.
 Nevertheless, Mr. Medoff, 48, said Mrs. Babbitt's story was especially resonant in the world of comic books. ''Comic-book artists waged a long struggle, led by Neal Adams, for the right to have their original art returned,'' he said. He was referring to comic-book companies' standard practice of not giving artists back their work after publication, a trend that lasted into the 1970s. 
 But Mr. Adams played down any similarities between his struggle and Mrs. Babbitt's, calling her situation ''tragic'' and ''an atrocity.'' He said he approached the six pages as if they were a documentary, avoiding the melodrama of, say, a superhero comic. 
 ''You're not looking at me trying to make a big play for emotion,'' he said. ''When you read the whole way through and realize what has happened to this person, you can't help but feel horrified and perhaps sickened by this nuttiness.''
 Mr. Adams recalled the time he was 10 and living in Germany, where his father was stationed with the United States Army. At school, his fellow students were shown footage of the concentration camps. ''It was too much for me,'' he said. ''It was staggering and awful. I couldn't believe human beings could treat other human beings like that.''
 One of the more horrific panels in the comic, which has the working title ''The Last Outrage,'' depicts a forced march of the prisoners out of the camp as Soviet troops approached. Many died on the journey to the Ravensbruck camp, which Allied troops liberated in 1945. The image was penciled by Mr. Adams and inked by Mr. Kubert, 81. 
 ''Neal asked me to do some of it, and I was more than pleased to work on it,'' Mr. Kubert said.
 Mrs. Babbitt's story is similar to that of Mr. Kubert's 2003 graphic novel, ''Yossel: April 19, 1943,'' which imagines what life would have been like if the Kubert family had not left Poland in 1926. In the book Yossel (Mr. Kubert's alter ego), and his family face life in the Warsaw ghetto. Yossel, a gifted artist, earns special treatment from the Germans.
 The graphic novel was critically acclaimed, but Mr. Kubert says it doesn't compare to Mrs. Babbitt's real-life ordeal. ''Her ability to paint and draw literally saved her life and her mother's life,'' he said. ''Absolutely incredible.''
 Mr. Medoff said he hoped that people would read the comic and agree. ''There's a certain amount of ongoing pressure, but it's been so far not efficient to make the authorities bow,'' he said. ''This comic strip will open a whole new battlefront.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A page from a coming comic that recounts the experience of Dina Gottliebova Babbitt at Auschwitz in World War II, and her recent efforts to reclaim her art.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NEAL ADAMS)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Dina Gottliebova Babbitt, top, wants to reclaim her art from Poland. Neal Adams, above, a comic artist, hopes to help her.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLOCAUST (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); PAINTING (75%); PETITIONS (61%)

COMPANY: DC ENTERTAINMENT INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) POLAND (88%); UNITED STATES (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2008



202 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: Fast-Food Curb Meets With Ambivalence in South Los Angeles

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
From her perch on a windowsill near a corner in South Los Angeles, Natasha Jackson could survey eight fast-food restaurants, and a sign promising one more to come.
 ''It would be good to have a health food restaurant here,'' said Ms. Jackson, 20. ''But to tell you the truth, I would probably just go to McDonald's, because that's what I know.''
 Los Angeles lawmakers are hoping they can legislate away the eating habits of Ms. Jackson and thousands of her neighbors. In July the City Council passed a one-year moratorium, now signed into law and effective as of last week, on any new fast-food restaurants in a 32-square-mile area south of Interstate 10, and the city is offering prospective owners of new grocery stores and non-fast-food restaurants large financial incentives to set up shop in the area. 
 The impetus for the ban was the area's large number of fast-food chains, which account for 45 percent of all its restaurants, along with high rates of obesity and related health problems and small numbers of fresh-food outlets, said Councilwoman Jan Perry, the bill's author.
 ''Talking to people over the last 10 to 15 years, they have consistently demanded more grocery stores and sit-down restaurants,'' Ms. Perry said. ''We have precious little land left to develop in the district.''
 The moratorium was opposed by the California Restaurant Association and is being closely monitored by fast-food chains.
 ''There is always that concern that it could expand,'' said Brian Luscomb, a spokesman for Jack in the Box, which has nine restaurants in South Los Angeles.
 South Los Angeles, the city's poorest section, sits at the crossroad of a number of policy trends in the state and, increasingly, in the nation, in which governments seek to limit the availability of foods deemed by the medical community to cause harm. Last month California became the first state to ban trans fats in all restaurants and bakeries, following similar legislation in New York and other cities. 
 Further, as some consumers push for more local ingredients, community organizers have tried to bring farmers' markets and other alternatives to South Los Angeles, which still lacks many basic grocery stores. Last year the city began offering tax credits, loans and energy discounts to new groceries, sit-down restaurants and fresh-food purveyors that settled in the neighborhood, and the ban on new fast-food restaurants, derided by some as misguided and an ineffective way to alter consumers' behavior, is believed to be the first of its kind in the country. (Some other cities have introduced bans on fast-food restaurants, but for aesthetic rather than health reasons.)
 Over the past five years, three farmers' markets have opened in South Los Angeles, and while they do not enjoy the patronage of other urban markets, ''we think they are a great asset in that community,'' said Pompea Smith, chief executive of Sustainable Economic Enterprises of Los Angeles, a nonprofit community development corporation.
 Greg Good, a spokesman for the Los Angeles Alliance for a New Economy, which is pressuring national grocery chains to bolster their presence in South Los Angeles, said: ''South L.A. is a food desert of massive proportions. You have a city completely divided, not only in the ways so familiar to folks but in terms of actual food access. In the face of that, a general call to action is taking place.'' 
 It may be that what many of the roughly 550,000 people in the area covered by the moratorium desire is not less of what they have, but more of what they do not.
 ''I don't think such a ban has any point,'' said Caroline Adeuole, who had just stepped off a bus with a shopping cart filled with fruits and vegetables procured on the city's west side. ''No matter where they put those restaurants, if people want that, they will drive to get it.''
 Taking a container of blueberries from her cart, Ms. Adeuole added, ''Not many people around here are ready to pay $5 for berries.''
 Others denounce the ban as overreaching.
 ''I think it's pretty ridiculous,'' said Joe R. Hicks, vice president of Community Advocates Inc., based in downtown Los Angeles. ''Limiting people's food options is not really the way to go. Nor is it the role of government to tell people what they should or should not be eating. French fries aren't contraband.''
 During a drive around a nine-and-half-mile stretch of the zone where the moratorium began last week, a reporter noted 32 fast-food chain restaurants, nine mom-and-pop-style burger outlets and just eight other restaurants, most of them either Chinese or other ethnic places like a family-style Salvadoran restaurant. It is the hope for alternatives that has led some people here to support the ban.
 ''It's either chicken or burgers around here,'' said Ernest Herbert, who is 40 and has high cholesterol. ''If I want something else to eat, I have to go all the way to Wilshire. I am very supportive of this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The City Council's moratorium, adopted in July, sprang from the large number of fast-food chains in South Los Angeles and a scarcity of fresh-food retailers there.
 Lunchtime at a KFC in South Los Angeles, the city's poorest section, where support for the moratorium is hardly universal. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAST FOOD (94%); RESTAURANTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); NUTRITION (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); RETAIL BAKERIES (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); OBESITY (73%); OILS & FATS (72%); TAX LAW (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); CITIES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (61%); OBESITY RELATED DISEASES (52%)

COMPANY: JACK IN THE BOX INC (53%)

TICKER: JACK (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (53%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (97%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2008



203 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rally as Oil Continues to Fall

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ; Floyd Norris contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In what has become a familiar pattern on Wall Street, stocks surged Friday, a day after falling sharply.
 The immediate impetus for the rally appeared to be a big drop in commodity prices, including a 4.1 percent fall in crude oil, which settled below $116 a barrel for the first time since early May. The dollar also continued to gain strength, rising 1.7 percent against a basket of six major world currencies.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 30.25 points, or 2.39 percent, to 1,296.32, its biggest one-day gain since April. The Dow Jones industrial average was up 302.89 points, or 2.65 percent, to 11,734.32; the Nasdaq composite jumped 58.37 points, or 2.48 percent, to 2,414,10. 
 In recent weeks, the stock market has swung between strong rallies and steep drops. The S.& P. 500 has moved by at least 2 percentage points on 6 of the last 25 trading days since July 4. By contrast, there were only two days with 2 percent changes from the end of 2003 to the end of 2006. 
 Despite all the sharp moves, the S.& P. 500 index rose just 0.3 percent from July 4 to Thursday's close. Friday's jump increased that gain to 2.7 percent.
 Some analysts say the volatility indicates that investors are increasingly uncertain about the economy.
 While they are encouraged that oil prices have fallen more than 20 percent from a high of $145.29 in early July, the housing market and the economy over all are still showing significant weakness. Earlier on Friday, Fannie Mae, the government-chartered mortgage giant, slashed its dividend after reporting a $2.3 billion quarterly loss. 
 ''Strictly from a psychological standpoint, it tells you that there is not a lot of conviction,'' said Barry L. Ritholtz, chief executive of FusionIQ, an investment firm in New York. ''Fund managers that are hot to buy one day, turn around and sell the next.'' 
 But others see reason to hope the market may have bottomed in mid-July and is starting a slow and hesitant rebound. These analysts note, for instance, that recent economic and housing reports may be bleak but the data is often better than expected. 
 Home sales appear to be flattening out, though at a very low level, and in some regions home prices have edged higher during the spring and summer seasons, when home sales are at their highest levels of the year. 
 ''When you get that steady trickle, the market builds on that,'' said James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist for Wells Capital Management. ''In between, what takes the market down is not economic reports. Sometimes it's straight company reports, other times it's spreading of rumors and fears.''
 Another trend that may be contributing to the volatility are reports of increasing weakness in Europe and Asia. On Friday, a report showed that Italy's economy unexpectedly shrank in the second quarter. Earlier, reports showed weakness in Germany, Japan and Great Britain. Even Chinese government figures have suggested that growth will be a few percentage points lower this year.
 Such news has contributed to the drop in oil prices. Oil settled at $115.20 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange Friday. Other commodities also fell sharply, with wheat falling 6.7 percent and copper closing down 2.4 percent. 
 In a report titled ''Calling a Top,'' analysts at Lehman Brothers wrote on Friday that oil prices had peaked, citing among other things lower demand from developed economies.
 Analysts suspect that slower growth could force the European Central Bank and the Bank of England to start lowering short-term interest rates, which are significantly higher than the Federal Reserve's benchmark funds rate of 2 percent. 
 That anticipation -- coming the day after both central banks decided to leave their key rates unchanged -- pushed up the dollar, which earlier this year fell to its lowest level since the currency was allowed to float freely in the 1970s. One euro now buys $1.50, down from $1.53 on Thursday. The yen fell to 110.24 to the dollar, from 109.45.
 If investors around the world believe the dollar will strengthen further, they may be moving some of their money into American stocks, said Douglas M. Peta, market strategist at J.& W. Seligman & Company. ''All of a sudden investors have come to the conclusion that Europe and U.K. may be in worse shape than the U.S.''
 Still, weakness in Europe and Japan would not necessarily be a good thing for the United States, because American exports have become an important counter to the problems in the domestic housing market and helped keep the economy growing in the first half of the year.
 Another abiding challenge to the stock market and the broader economy alike is access to credit. Even as stocks have rallied, the credit market remains sluggish, with few new deals coming to the market and worries about defaults spreading to auto loans and credit cards.
 The KDP high-yield index, which tracks yields on junk bonds, climbed this week to its highest level since early 2003. Mortgage interest rates are near 12-month highs as investors worry about the future of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
 ''It's tougher for individuals or corporations to have access to the credit markets,'' said Steven M. Roge, a portfolio manager at R. W. Roge & Company in Bohemia, N.Y., who is skeptical that stocks have bottomed.
 The recent big moves in the market have also come at a time when trading volume has been relatively low, a phenomenon that is more common in the summer, said Jerry Webman, chief economist at OppenheimerFunds. When volumes are low, a few momentum traders can more easily drive markets up or down significantly, he said. ''I would be cautious about overinterpreting any of the up days or down days this week.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The floor of the New York Stock Exchange was busy Friday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN LANE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
On Friday the Dow Jones industrials rose 302.89 points. Some analysts caution against reading optimism in market swings.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN LANE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(pg. C3) CHART: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. Chart details line graph for daily activity.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); STATISTICS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); MUTUAL FUNDS (64%); COMPANY LOSSES (63%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (66%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2008



204 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section WT; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Fears of European Slowdown Weaken the Euro

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
The euro tumbled Friday to near the $1.50 mark -- its lowest level against the dollar since February -- amid new signs that the European economy was slowing. 
 The decline in the euro helped to send oil prices to a three-month low on Friday in New York trading. Crude oil fell $4.82 a barrel to settle at $115.20 in New York trading. 
 In Europe, the latest indication of a slowdown came with a report that the Italian economy had unexpectedly shrank in the second quarter, adding to the sentiment that the European Central Bank was now more likely to cut, rather than raise, interest rates at its next meeting. 
 The euro fell to $1.5004 Friday before rallying slightly, atop a similar slide Thursday. The euro hit a record high of slightly more than $1.60 on July 15, a week after the European Central Bank bucked the trend of the world's major central banks and raised its benchmark interest rate.
 ''There's a real capitulation under way,'' David Gilmore, partner at Foreign Exchange Analytics in Essex, Conn., told The Associated Press on Friday. ''In 24 hours it's gone from $1.55 to $1.50, which is highly unusual. That changes your game plan for the marketplace.''
 The stronger dollar also helped ease concerns that a conflict between Georgia and Russia could disrupt oil supplies in the Caspian regions.
 ''Energy demand destruction and the dollar return have formed a quiet alliance to bring the oil market down, and today the louder of the two is the dollar,'' Peter Beutel, president of trading consultants Cameron Hanover in New Canaan, Conn., told Reuters. 
 The dramatic drop was ignited by a warning from the European Central Bank on Thursday that high energy costs and more sluggish global growth were finally taking a toll on the 15-nation euro zone, an economy that had seemed remarkably resistant to the turmoil around it for most of this year. 
 With inflation probably past its peak, most economists now believe the bank's interest rate increase of July will be its last for the year, and the bank will begin lowering borrowing costs next year. By then, bank watchers believe, the central bank will have firm evidence that inflation, now running at an annual rate of slightly more than 4 percent, will fall back to its informal target of 2 percent.
 Since lower interest rates diminish the appeal of euro-denominated assets, the euro tends to edge downward when the prospect of higher interest rates recedes.
 ''The currency markets had been rewarding hawkish central banks for most of the year, but as inflation becomes less of a concern that sentiment ebbs,'' said Simon Derrick, head of currency research at Bank of New York Mellon in London. 
 On Thursday, in announcing that the bank would hold rates steady, the president of the central bank, Jean-Claude Trichet, acknowledged that the region's economy was straining under the pressure of high energy prices and slower global growth. 
 In part, currency experts believe the recovery of the dollar reflects an inevitable swing back from a phase of acute weakness, when every bit of bad news out of the United States -- ranging from the collapse of Bear Stearns in March to the bailout last month of the mortgage lenders Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac -- seemed to pound it down further. 
 ''At this point, the dollar has fallen a lot,'' said Kenneth Rogoff, a professor at Harvard and former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund. ''Going down sharply further would require a real crisis.''
 With a history of resilience, the United States economy now looks like it could skirt a recession, while the odds of Europe enduring one, however brief, have risen measurably in the last month.
 The Italian economy, chronically stagnant over the last decade, shrank in the second quarter by 0.3 percent, according to the government data. 
 Another quarter of decline would mark the country's fourth recession -- defined as two consecutive quarters of negative growth -- in a decade.
 More bad news appears increasingly likely this coming week in the form of data on growth in Germany and the 15-nation euro area.
 Many economists believe the German economy, the engine of the region, may have contracted in the second quarter after blazing ahead by 1.5 percent in the first three months of the year. Much of that growth reflected technical factors like construction projects that will not be repeated. But the European Central Bank said Thursday that the fall-off in growth also stemmed from higher energy prices and cooling demand for German exports worldwide.
 ''Until now, the severity of Europe's problems have been outweighed by what happened in the United States,'' said Stephen Jen, global head of currency research at Morgan Stanley in London.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ENERGY DEMAND (69%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (83%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (83%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2008



205 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2382 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 OPENING CEREMONY PROVIDES
 Different Turns in Spotlight
 For hundreds of millions of Chinese, the lavish Olympic kickoff was an affirmation of their nation's emerging might and, according to popular lore, the realization of a dream deferred 100 years by revolution, invasion, colonial exploitation, civil war and Communist misrule. For protesters around the world, including thousands of exiled Tibetans, it was a chance to try to capture a bit of the spotlight for human rights issues. PAGES A10, A11
 VOTE COULD STRENGTHEN MORALES
 The embattled President Evo Morales of Bolivia is pressing ahead with plans for a national referendum on Sunday intended to determine whether he and his top regional rivals should remain in office. Analysts expect the vote to heighten political tension in the country. Even if Mr. Morales prevails, his political opponents in relatively prosperous lowland provinces have vowed not to recognize the results. PAGE A6 
 LONGTIME IRRITANT FOR RUSSIA
 The status of South Ossetia, the rebellious province of Georgia entered by Russian troops, has been a nagging irritant on Russia's southern border since long before the dissolution of the Soviet Union. The Ossetians have long yearned for separation from Georgia, appealing to Russia, their northern neighbor, for support. PAGE A9
 SADR'S NEW SOCIAL WING
 In sermons at Friday Prayers across Iraq, Shiite clerics loyal to Moktada al-Sadr urged his followers to volunteer for a new social wing of his movement that they said would work alongside his militia, the Mahdi army. The division of the Sadrist movement, Mr. Sadr's principal spokesman told Reuters, ''should not be considered an end to the Mahdi army, but it's a halfway step to dissolving the Mahdi army.'' PAGE A8
 MUSHARRAF'S DEFENSE
 President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan plans a spirited defense against impeachment charges the governing coalition is pursuing against him and he has no intention of resigning, his key allies said. Among his arguments, one supporter said, will be: ''I've made some mistakes, but at least I am not a crook.'' (Americans might recognize a similarity with an argument from another president facing impeachment.) PAGE A8
 CALL TO END H.I.V. PROSECUTIONS
 The 17th International AIDS Conference ended in Mexico City with a call to reverse laws that criminalize and stigmatize people at risk for H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS. A South African justice, in calling criminalization a poor tool, cited among other examples the case of a homeless, intoxicated H.I.V.-infected man who was convicted in Dallas of harassing a public servant with a deadly weapon -- spitting at a police officer who arrested him. PAGE A9
 national
 IMMIGRANTS' SPEEDY TRIALS 
 Raise Many Eyebrows
 Immigration and criminal defense lawyers were stunned in May when nearly 300 illegal immigrant workers who had been detained in a raid in Iowa were convicted on criminal charges and sentenced to prison -- all in just four days. Now the legal blueprint for those swift proceedings has come to light, and it is raising questions about the close collaboration in the months before the raid between the federal court in Iowa and the prosecutors who pressed the charges. PAGE A12
 BUS CRASH KILLS 15 IN TEXAS
 An unlicensed bus carrying a group of Vietnamese Catholics on their way to a religious gathering skidded off a Texas highway and turned over, leaving at least 15 people dead and dozens more injured. The bus was being illegally operated by a company with a long record of safety violations, according to federal regulators, who had yet to determine a cause for the crash. PAGE A13
 FLOODS PERSIST IN NORTHEAST
 Flash flooding from heavy rainstorms took the life of a 7-year-old girl in New Hampshire when she became trapped in an S.U.V. that was swept into a raging brook. It was the fourth drowning death in New Hampshire since July 25, as storms have swollen rivers and kicked up dangerously strong currents. Flooding has also plagued parts of Maine and Vermont this week. PAGE A16
 SLOWING THE SPREAD OF JUNK FOOD
 In an effort to legislate away the bad eating habits of residents in Los Angeles, the City Council passed a one-year moratorium, now signed into law and effective as of last week, on any new fast-food restaurants in a 32-square-mile area south of Interstate 10, and the city is offering prospective owners of new grocery stores and non-fast-food restaurants large financial incentives to set up shop in the area. The bill's author notes that fast-food chains account for 45 percent of all restaurants in the area. PAGE A12
 PREVIOUS GERM SUSPECT EXONERATED
 Six years after labeling Steven J. Hatfill a ''person of interest'' in the anthrax attacks, the Justice Department formally exonerated him and told his lawyer it had concluded that Dr. Hatfill ''was not involved in the anthrax mailings.'' The department said this week that it was now convinced that another military scientist -- Bruce E. Ivins, who committed suicide 11 days ago -- was the anthrax killer and that he had acted alone in a crime that killed five people and shook the country. PAGE A13
 Some Doubts Over Anthrax Suspect A13
 Pastor Denies Assault Charges A16 
 metro 
 SITE OF OLD TERRORISM TRIALS
 Is Quieter These Days
 The scene at Federal District Court in Manhattan, where a Pakistani neuroscientist, Aafia Siddiqui, above, who prosecutors say was an operative for Al Qaeda was arraigned on criminal charges on Tuesday, at first recalled the time when New York was the headquarters for terrorism trials. But as events of the week showed, that title has basically moved south, to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. PAGE B1 
 THE MAYOR'S INVESTMENTS
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, one of the wealthiest people in America, discloses his tax returns in a highly edited and somewhat cryptic fashion, offering not specific dollar amounts, but ranges represented by the letters A ($1,000 to $5,000) through G ($500,000 to the moon). Still, this year's returns did provide some news: the mayor is a golf club investor and commercial landlord. PAGE B3 
 SPORTS
 U.S. BOXER COLLAPSES
 While Trying to Make Weight
 Gary Russell Jr., desperate to get down to the 119-pound limit for a bantamweight boxer, tried a tactic using a vinyl sauna jacket that left him severely dehydrated, unconscious and ultimately disqualified from the Olympic boxing competition. It cost the United States team one of its best hopes for a medal. And it further called attention to the potential perils of rapid weight loss. PAGE D1
 CYCLING THROUGH AGAIN
 Teammates call him Grandpa, and George Hincapie acknowledges that he never expected to be competing in Beijing, living in another athlete's village, collecting another round of pins, riding in his fifth Olympics. When he turned pro, he figured 10 years would be an awesome career. So far it's been 15. PAGE D4 
 FOLLOWING TRADITION, AND NOT
 The procession of athletes at the Beijing Games who marched into the National Stadium followed some time-honored traditions, among them: Greece first, host last. But the rest of the athletes walked into the packed and pulsating 91,000 fans as determined by the number of strokes it takes to write the first character of their countries' names in Chinese. PAGE D2
 MEASURING PROGRESS
 The Chinese will host the United States men's basketball team Sunday for what is being billed as one of the seminal moments of the 2008 Olympics. Although China is hoping to provide formidable competition, the game will be viewed here as more of a referendum for the country's progress in the sport. PAGE D5 
 OBITUARIES
 ANTHONY J. RUSSO, 71
 He was a shaggy-haired, countercultural, unemployed policy wonk when he teamed up with Daniel Ellsberg, a more establishment anti-war sort, to leak the massive, top-secret history of the Vietnam War called the Pentagon Papers. PAGE A17
 BERNIE BRILLSTEIN, 77
 A Hollywood manager and producer, he helped shape television with his contributions to series like ''Saturday Night Live'' and ''The Muppet Show.'' In a 52-year show business career, Mr. Brillstein represented entertainers who ranged in the earlier days from the stand-up comedian Norm Crosby and the singer Frankie Laine to a later generation of comic rebels that included John Belushi, Dan Aykroyd, Gilda Radner, Lorne Michaels, Martin Short and others. PAGE A17
 BUSINESS
 LOSSES FORCE MORTGAGE GIANTS
 To Scale Back Loan Purchases
 Gaping losses at Fannie Mae -- which reported a $2.3 billion loss for the second quarter -- and Freddie Mac are prompting the companies to scale back their purchases of home loans just when the government is counting on them to help prop up the housing market. Their moves are likely to drive up home mortgage rates, which are hovering near their highest levels in a year. PAGE C3
 A FIX WITH SERIOUS DRAWBACKS
 Since learning of the discovery of a serious flaw in the Internet's workings, computer network administrators have been rushing to fix their systems with a quickly cobbled-together patch. But a Russian physicist has shown that the emergency fix to the basic Internet address system, known as the Domain Name System, is vulnerable and could allow, for example, thieves to hijack a bank's Web address and steal customer passwords. PAGE C1
 TECH STOCK OFFERING ENDS DROUGHT
 An initial public offering for Rackspace Hosting, a Texas company that provides Web hosting, ended a six-month drought in such offerings of technology stocks. But analysts cautioned that this does not signal a turnaround in the market for technology start-ups hoping to cash out by selling stock to the public. Rackspace shares were priced at $12.50, the low end of their expected range, and opened at $10. Shares closed at $10.01. PAGE C2
 IF THE SHOE FITS, TEST IT
 Sure, Reebok could rely solely on its mechanical impact testing devices that repeatedly pound or flex shoes to determine their resilience. ''But for us the gold standard is finding out what humans feel about it,'' one company official said, which is how real people (like Harry Hurt III ) get to put items like a brand new pair of snowy white Hex Ride Rally to the test. And they don't even have to run. PAGE C5
 Same Price, Shrinking Size C6
 Advice for Small Nest Eggs C1
 ARTS
 COMIC BOOK GREATS COME TO AID
 Of a Holocaust Artist
 A truly all-star comic book roster -- think of Batman, Sergeant Rock and the Fantastic Four, among others -- has joined forces to combat what they see as a real-world injustice. Three of the elder statesmen of comic books are telling the tale of an Auschwitz survivor trying to recover watercolor portraits she did at the bidding of Dr. Josef Mengele. PAGE B1
 COURTROOM REVENGE
 The American Bar Association, ever on the lookout to enliven panels at its annual meeting, summoned Don Giovanni from the underworld to face his singing (sort of) accusers in a Hilton Hotel ballroom-turned-courtroom. There was a reason beyond entertainment: presenting the Don's victims as plaintiffs in a potential class-action lawsuit charging him with intentional infliction of emotional distress helped to delve into a finer point of class-action lawsuits. PAGE B1
 IN CHINA, BOOKS TAKE A HOLIDAY
 Under normal circumstances the Beijing International Book Fair would be taking place this month. But circumstances are not normal in Beijing this month, so the book fair has been rescheduled to early September, and moved to Tianjin, an hour away. Generally speaking, the Olympics -- like the election in the United States -- and some other factors have pretty much put publishing in sleep mode. PAGE B1
 Newport After George Wein B3 
 Othello's Blessing and Curse B4
 This Weekend
 BOOK REVIEW
 Barbara Ehrenreich's ''This Land is Their Land'' is a collection of opinion articles that try to capture the economic anxieties of the aughts, as she calls them. But in doing, Eve Fairbanks writes, Ms. Ehrenreich often lapses into vagueness, referring to those who oppress the poor as ''plutocrats'' who ''for all we know ... sip their single malts in mahogany-walled dens.'' PAGE 9
 THE MAGAZINE
 For many black politicians who trace their roots in public life to the civil rights movement, Barack Obama's candidacy is the end result of the forces they had unleashed. But what would Mr. Obama's election to the presidency ultimately mean for black politics? PAGE 34 
 ARTS & LEISURE
 The Burj Dubai, the tallest building in the world, looks like a needle that could pierce the very clouds. Adrian Smith, the building's lead designer, appears to have already moved on, predicting that in the next five years other, taller buildings will surpass it. His firm has most of its projects in the United Arab Emirates, and he is already designing 6 more buildings over 100 stories there, which he explains is not about ego, but efficient use of space. PAGE 24 
 Editorial
 THE RIGHT TO VOTE
 Much about the presidential election is up in the air, but one thing is certain: voters will have trouble casting ballots on Election Day. PAGE A18
 MUSHARRAF UNDER FIRE
 Pakistan's civilian leaders stirred a new political hornet's nest by declaring their intention to impeach President Pervez Musharraf. It is not certain whether they will succeed, but it is clear that the issue must be resolved with speed and respect for democracy. PAGE A18
 WRITING OFF DISABLED CHILDREN
 Many of America's juvenile jails would be empty if the public schools provided disabled children with the special instruction that they need. PAGE A18
 A FUTURE FOR S.U.V.'S
 We have heartily applauded Americans' collective decision to start driving sensible vehicles. But we must also acknowledge that this abrupt change of heart is creating a new national challenge: what to do with the S.U.V.? PAGE A18
 op-ed
 BOB HERBERT
 A congressional primary in Memphis had antiwhite racism, anti-Semitism and a twist. PAGE A19
 GAIL COLLINS
 Human nature being what it is, there will continue to be adultery no matter how many instructive sex scandals politicians are exposed to. But you really would think that by now they would know how to make a decent public confession. PAGE A19
 CHARLES M. BLOW
 Think racism isn't a major factor in this election? Think again. PAGE A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ARMIES (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); CIVIL WAR (77%); IMPEACHMENT (75%); POLITICS (75%); LAWYERS (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (72%); VIRUSES (71%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (71%); REFERENDUMS (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); FOREIGN LABOR (69%); AIDS & HIV (68%); ARMED FORCES (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); ARRESTS (62%); HUMAN RIGHTS (56%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (56%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: XIZANG, CHINA (73%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); TIBET (92%); GEORGIA (91%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2008



206 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1019 words

PERSON: Anthony J. Russo 

HEADLINE: Anthony J. Russo, 71, Pentagon Papers Figure, Dies

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Anthony J. Russo, a shaggy-haired, countercultural, unemployed policy wonk when he teamed up with Daniel Ellsberg, a more button-downed antiwar figure, to leak the voluminous, top-secret government history of the Vietnam War called the Pentagon Papers, died Wednesday in Suffolk, Va. He was 71.
 Mr. Ellsberg announced the death on a Web site, antiwar.com. Mr. Russo suffered from heart trouble. 
 Mr. Russo chafed at being called the ''Xerox aide'' because of his role in finding a copying machine and working long nights to reproduce the 7,000-page study. In fact, it was Mr. Russo's words -- after weeks of conversations -- that had definitively started the enterprise: ''Let's do it!'' he said, according to Mr. Ellsberg's book ''Secrets: A Memoir of Vietnam and the Pentagon Papers.''
 The two started copying the next night in a Hollywood, Calif., advertising agency that was above a flower shop and was owned by Mr. Russo's girlfriend. It had an inauspicious beginning; they mistakenly left on a burglar alarm and were interrupted by a policeman. He paced about, gave no sign of suspicions and left.
 In June 1967, Robert S. McNamara, the defense secretary, set up the Vietnam Study Task Force, ultimately employing 36 analysts and historians, to prepare a classified history of the Vietnam War from 1945 to 1967. Its 47 volumes revealed conversations at the highest levels of government that sometimes directly contradicted official statements, including the timing and the scale of the United States' troop buildup.
 It was classified ''Top Secret -- Sensitive.'' David Rudenstine wrote in ''The Day the Presses Stopped: A History of the Pentagon Papers Case'' (1996) that ''sensitive'' was not part of the official classification system. It was a signal the contents could cause embarrassment.
 Mr. Ellsberg first offered the papers to several senators and Henry A. Kissinger, the national security adviser. He found no takers. He then offered them to newspapers.
 The New York Times decided to publish the materials and was followed by other newspapers. The Times won a landmark case when the Supreme Court ruled that the government had not met the heavy burden of proof required to stop publication of something in advance.
 But in the later trial of Mr. Ellsberg and Mr. Russo in Federal District Court, on charges of violating conspiracy, theft and espionage laws, other important issues were raised but not decided. One was whether the Espionage Act of 1917 prohibits publication of secret material, or whether it must be passed to an enemy to be a violation.
 The men were cleared even though their case never reached a jury, because Judge William M. Byrne Jr. dismissed the case in May 1973 after several bizarre twists. These included the judge's learning that the office of Dr. Ellsberg's psychiatrist had been burglarized and that the Federal Bureau of Investigation had lost records of perhaps illegally taped telephone conversations, as well as the fact that during the trial, the judge himself was approached about becoming director of the F.B.I.
 From Mr. Russo's perspective, the ordeal -- even the beatings he claimed to have endured after being imprisoned for refusing to testify to a grand jury -- was worth it. ''The case has messed up my life,'' he said in an interview with The Times in January 1972, ''but what difference does that make?''
 Mr. Russo was born in Suffolk on Oct. 14, 1936, and grew up in a middle-class family. He earned a degree in aeronautical engineering at Virginia Tech in 1960, then worked for NASA, helping to design the space capsule. He next earned two master's degrees at Princeton, one in aeronautical engineering and one in public affairs.
 He went to work for the RAND Corporation, which sent him to Vietnam to work on a study that involved interrogating Vietcong prisoners, whom he admired for the strength of their convictions. He broke out in tears in court when telling of a prisoner's reciting poetry to him.
 After returning to work at RAND in California, Mr. Russo experimented with the counterculture, riding motorcycles and writing poetry, according to Peter Schrag in ''Test of Loyalty: Daniel Ellsberg and the Rituals of Secret Government'' (1974).
 Tom Wells, in his ''Wild Man: The Life and Times of Daniel Ellsberg'' (2001), said that Mr. Ellsberg -- who had worked on preparing the Pentagon Papers as an analyst and moved to RAND in 1968 -- told Mr. Russo he wanted to meet ''some hippies,'' particularly women. Mr. Russo took him to a commune.
 Mr. Russo became Mr. Ellsberg's closest male friend at RAND, Mr. Wells wrote; their conversations increasingly turned to the 2 of the 15 copies of the Pentagon Papers that had been deposited at RAND.
 Mr. Russo pushed Mr. Ellsberg to use his more influential position to make the contents public. At first, Mr. Russo told Mr. Wells, Mr. Ellsberg ''rolled his eyes at the ceiling.''
 But Mr. Ellsberg increasingly concentrated on how to release the study and how much of it to release. He eventually decided to hold back four of the volumes, covering 1964 to 1968, to avoid criticism that he had harmed the peace negotiations.
 Mr. Ellsberg said in his obituary of Mr. Russo that he had thought Mr. Russo would not be in danger of prosecution. But it turned out Mr. Russo, too, was indicted. Both admitted doing everything charged in taking the documents to be copied and releasing them to newspapers, but contended that this did not constitute a violation of the law.
 Mr. Russo had earlier refused to testify before a grand jury and was imprisoned until he agreed to do so, but he never had to testify. In a news conference after the final trial, he recalled that it was ''in the bowels of that courthouse I was beaten up by guards.'' Prison officials denied this.
 Mr. Russo was married and divorced twice and had no children. He worked for the Los Angeles County Probation Department for many years.
 He told The Times that the Pentagon Papers case had transformed him into a ''committed, full-time radical.'' He always credited the Black Panthers with being his strongest supporters.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Anthony J. Russo at a rally at the University of Florida in 1973. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VIETNAM WAR (90%); ESPIONAGE (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (85%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (85%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (84%); HISTORY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); PHOTOCOPIERS (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); JURY TRIALS (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); LITIGATION (64%); CONSPIRACY (63%); BURDENS OF PROOF (63%); SUPREME COURTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.) 

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2008



207 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TALKING BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1671 words

HEADLINE: Diamonds Are Forever In Botswana

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
In 1967, the year after Botswana gained its independence from Britain, a huge diamond mine was discovered in a remote area called Orapa, about 250 miles from the capital city of Gaborone. The company that found the mine was De Beers, which was then -- as it is now -- the dominant seller of ''rough stones'' in the world. Four years and $33 million later, the mine was ready for production. 
 The country's president, Seretse Khama, officiated at the opening.
 In the early years of its nationhood, Botswana was one of the poorest countries in the world, with a per capita income of about $80 a year. Today, it is among the most prosperous countries in Africa, with a real middle class, and a per capita income approaching $6,000 a year. By contrast, the average citizen in Angola earns about $2,500 a year, while in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, it's a little more than $1,500, according to the World Bank. 
 There is no question that the discovery of diamonds was the most important catalyst in Botswana's economic growth. Prior to the discovery, Botswana had an agricultural economy. By the early 1980s, however, Edward Jay Epstein could report in his book, ''The Rise and Fall of Diamonds,'' that diamond, manganese and copper mines controlled by De Beers accounted for fully 50 percent of the country's gross domestic product. Though the Botswana economy has since diversified somewhat, the operations of De Beers still account for around a third of the country's gross domestic product. 
 There is also no question, though, that Botswana was greatly aided by something else: De Beers's own sense of -- to use the current term of art -- corporate social responsibility. Unlike most big companies that have exploited Africa's resources over the course of its tragic history -- indeed, unlike most Chinese companies operating in Africa today -- De Beers did not simply plunder Botswana. Practically from the start, it entered into a 50-50 joint venture with the government; about a decade ago, it also sold the government a 15 percent stake in the company. (De Beers has only two other shareholders: the South African-based Oppenheimer family, which has controlled the company for over 100 years, and the publicly traded Anglo-American Corporation.) 
 It has also built roads, hospitals and schools in Botswana; worked to help the country deal with H.I.V. and AIDS; and been involved in and paid for a hundred other things that have helped make Botswana an African success story. Most of the executives in the government-company joint venture are black Africans who have been trained by De Beers. In March, the company closed its diamond sorting facility in London, and opened the largest, most technologically advanced diamond sorting complex in the world in Gaborone. It employs 600 people and is also part of the company's 50-50 joint venture with the government. 
 ''We think our approach is a competitive advantage,'' said Gareth Penny, the cherubic 45-year-old South African who has been the company's chief executive since 2006. It's hard to disagree. Botswana's citizens need roads -- but so does De Beers, to transport its diamonds. De Beers needs a healthy work force, so its emphasis on H.I.V. awareness and treatment is clearly in its self interest. Indeed, a more prosperous Botswana helps De Beers in every way imaginable, not least by providing a stable environment in which it can do business. ''The country can now attract banks and service industries -- and avoid the natural resource curse,'' Mr. Penny told me.
 In the two years he's been the chief executive, Mr. Penny has become a proselytizer for what he likes to call ''beneficiation'' -- which is a fancy word for doing well while doing good. I heard him make a speech in Washington a few months ago, in which he repeatedly used the Botswana example and to a less extent Namibia, where De Beers has a number of similar programs, to show what socially responsible companies can accomplish in Africa. He went on to say that every company doing business in Africa needed to practice this kind of enlightened stewardship if it hoped to succeed over the long haul.
 So why don't they?
 The transformation of De Beers over the past decade or so is a remarkable, little-known story. For decades, the company had been an unapologetic monopolist, working to keep diamond prices high by controlling supply. It had offices all over Africa -- indeed, all over the world -- that bought up the vast majority of rough stones as they were mined. It held onto the excess supply, and sold to diamond merchants and traders only enough product to meet demand. Its business model created the perception of scarcity -- a necessity in no small part because diamonds are not, in fact, scarce. 
 (De Beers was also one of the world's great marketing organizations, whose founder, Cecil Rhodes, invented from whole cloth the idea that an expensive diamond was a symbol of love and devotion; decades later, De Beers's marketers came up with the slogan ''Diamonds Are Forever.'' But that's a story for another day.)
 In the late 1990s, De Beers's business model began to founder. Whenever demand dropped, De Beers would have to stockpile diamonds -- at one point, it had a staggering $5 billion worth of inventory. In addition, diamonds were being discovered that De Beers could not control. Canada, it turns out, is a country full of high quality diamonds -- and it refused to be part of the De Beers cartel. More menacingly, rebels in strife-torn African countries would force people to mine diamonds and then sell them to raise money to buy arms. These so-called blood diamonds were beginning to give diamonds a reputation in the West akin to fur.
 Mr. Penny was among a group of Young Turks at De Beers who conducted a strategic review that helped persuade management that the company had to change. It stopped buying third-party diamonds, and focused instead on selling its own diamonds -- though to only around 100 dealers who agreed to play by its rules. (It didn't give up control entirely.) And it became a company that focused on increasing demand rather than controlling supply. Today, De Beers has about 40 percent of the diamond market -- but it is far more profitable than under the old regime, when it controlled 80 percent of the market.
 The blood diamond issue largely went away when De Beers, at the urging of the N.G.O. community, helped devise something called the Kimberley Process, which effectively created a way to ensure that buyers were getting only diamonds that had been mined legally. Besides being the right thing to do, this also had a business rationale: it restored the reputation diamonds had long enjoyed, while eliminating a source of excess supply.
 As for its emphasis on corporate social responsibility, you may be surprised to learn that this was probably the least revolutionary part of the De Beers transformation. Partly this is because it is an African company -- its roots have always been in South Africa -- and has always had a huge interest in African economic success. And it has long built roads and hospitals in the countries where it did business.
 But it was also because the Oppenheimers were, by the standards of the day, enlightened corporate leaders. They gave scholarships to promising young students. They believed in philanthropy. And Harry Oppenheimer, the father of the current chairman, Nicky Oppenheimer, made no secret of his opposition to apartheid. ''They were good guys,'' said Mr. Epstein, the author.
 Mr. Penny has continued that tradition of enlightened leadership; indeed, he can sometimes sound more passionate about the importance of helping Africa than about the importance of making money. ''We are making a contribution by helping to build a more civil society,'' he told me with no small pride. ''We are part of the solution.''
 True enough -- but only, it would seem, in a small handful of places like Botswana. And hence the real dilemma. Companies can have all the good intentions in the world -- as De Beers clearly does -- but it only works if the countries will let it work. Angola and the Democratic Republic of the Congo both have unexploited diamond deposits that could help those countries prosper. But they are too unstable -- and too corrupt -- for De Beers to do business there. It takes two to tango.
 Thus, what's really unique about the De Beers-Botswana relationship isn't so much De Beers's good intentions -- it's Botswana's as well. The country has been democratic since it gained independence; it has had intelligent, honest leadership; it has avoided civil strife -- and it has understood the power of economic growth to improve the lives of its citizens. All the good that De Beers has done has come about with the government's encouragement and support.
 That's something you can't say about much of the rest of Africa. A few months ago, Fast Company magazine published a powerful account of China's invasion of Africa, a story that showed in gruesome detail how Chinese companies are extracting resources, paying off governments, and doing exactly what Mr. Penny says won't work: pillaging the continent with not even a nod toward ''beneficiation.'' It would be nice, certainly, if Chinese companies had a greater sense of responsibility -- but ultimately it is up to governments to make companies act on behalf of its citizens. ''It's the real lesson here: the importance of decent governments,'' said Sonia Marciano, a professor at New York University Stern School of Business, who has written several case studies about De Beers.
 Which is why, although Mr. Penny professes to be an optimist about Africa's economic future, I find it a little hard to share his optimism. So much of Africa is still governed so poorly -- Zimbabwe, anyone? -- with problems that seem so intractable. And there isn't a thing De Beers can do about them. What De Beers ultimately illustrates isn't just the good that corporate social responsibility can do, but its limits as well.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The discovery of diamonds was the most important catalyst in Botswana's economic growth.
 Practically from the start, De Beers entered into a 50-50 joint venture with the government of Botswana.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEXANDER JOE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIAMOND MINING (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DIAMOND MARKETS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); COPPER MINING (73%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); AGRICULTURAL OUTPUT (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); JOINT VENTURES (65%); CLOSINGS (60%)

COMPANY: DE BEERS SA (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423940 JEWELRY, WATCH, PRECIOUS STONE & PRECIOUS METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (95%); NAICS212399 ALL OTHER NONMETALLIC MINERAL MINING (95%); SIC5094 JEWELRY, WATCHES, PRECIOUS STONES, & PRECIOUS METALS (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) BOTSWANA (94%); AFRICA (94%); ANGOLA (79%); CHINA (79%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2008



208 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Making a Child's Life Better in Every Corner

BYLINE: By TANYA MOHN

 BODY:
THE United States Fund for Unicef is one of 37 national committees around the world that support the work of the United Nations Children's Fund, an international development relief organization that provides vaccines, health care, nutrition, water, education, child protection and emergency response in more than 150 countries and territories. 
 The U.S. Fund raised an estimated $442 million in private contributions in its last fiscal year, well over the previous year. It was a challenge in a tough economic climate, when many nonprofit groups had difficulty reaching their goals, said Caryl M. Stern, who joined the U.S. Fund in 2006 and became the president and chief executive in June 2007 after 18 years at the Anti-Defamation League. 
 It was a year of crises -- from earthquakes in China and Peru to flooding in Mozambique, to conflicts in Darfur and Haiti and water and food shortages in many countries. Below are excerpts from an interview with Ms. Stern in the aftermath of the cyclone in Myanmar and the earthquake in China. 
 Q.What is the advantage to giving to Unicef?
 A. In the first hours after an emergency, governments are looking to Unicef to take the lead. No other child-focused group has that access. Unicef is part of the United Nations. We have been present in Myanmar since 1950, and the emergency response was operational immediately after the cyclone hit. We were working in Sichuan Province in China before the earthquake. Also, Unicef works in partnership and finances many local grass-roots organizations in countries around the world.
 Q. After crises, there is such urgency about contributing money quickly and online. Why?
 A. It's not enough to get America to write that check. We've got to get that check in the system, we've got to be able to bank it, we've got to clear it and get it to where it's got to go. If you make a donation on your credit card online, it transfers so much faster. Within 24 hours, that money can be actionable on the ground. Supplies like sheeting, water purification tablets and medical supplies can't be ordered if there is no money. 
 When the tsunami hit, all you heard about is the rising death toll. But not one preventable child death occurred in the first 48 to 72 hours afterward, which is usually when we see the spread of diseases like diarrhea, malaria and cholera.
 Q.When Unicef was created over 60 years ago, there weren't as many organizations doing similar work. Is there more competition for funds now?
 A. There are roughly two million nonprofits in the United States, but only 3 percent of America's philanthropy goes to international causes. 
 You often hear: ''Why should I give to children there? Children here need money, too.'' But the poorest child in the United States has a tenfold advantage over a child in a developing nation. Here there's a welfare system. Education is a right, not a privilege. 
 Take a child in the bush in Africa or even in an almost middle-income nation like Vietnam, where there is a limited social welfare structure and birth registry. Nobody even knows you exist. Your parents die of AIDS, you could be 8 years old. There isn't a social worker that's going to come to see you. Your childhood is gone. And on top of that, there's trafficking of children. There's the drug trade. 
 When I went to Darfur last year, I did not meet a single woman who had not been raped. Not one. But I didn't realize that it was happening to girls 8, 9 and 10 years old and younger in some cases. 
 Q.Is much national attention given to the state of the world's children?
 A. No, not enough. We as Americans have not made it a priority. For the first time since the U.N. began recording statistics, the number of children who died from preventable causes dropped below 10 million. This year it was 9.7 million. It was 20 million in the 1980s. 
 On the one hand, that's cause for celebration. It's a serious reduction. But every day, 26,000 children die of preventable causes; 5,000 are due to lack of access to clean, healthy water. This is not the heart fund, the cancer fund, where maybe we'll find a cure. We're dealing with things we know how to solve but we don't have the resources or the political power to be able to.
 Q.Do most people know what Unicef does?
 A. We did our brand study and we found that we were way up there in brand recognition. Americans trust us and they know that we have trick-or-treat boxes. But nobody really knows what we are after that. That's part of what we're trying to change. We're using YouTube, Facebook and MySpace. We're going to hit you where you are. We're not going to make you come to us. 
 Q.Is Trick-or-Treat for Unicef still an effective fund-raising campaign?
 A. It's been stagnant for the past couple of years. One reason is because you don't have as many kids going door to door. And we used to be the only thing kids fund-raised for. 
 We also changed our volunteer structure in the past 10 years. So our prominence in some communities fell off. But you are going to see some changes in the fall. We'll be making use of virtual trick-or-treat boxes. We'll be partnering with Major League Soccer's youth clubs to be trick-or-treaters this year in addition to going through the schools. 
 We're also going to make trick-or-treat not just about kids. This year, there will be a program on some college campuses. I hope to entice one of the major banks so that you'll have the opportunity to donate right at your A.T.M. machine. On Halloween day, it will say, ''Trick-or-treat for Unicef?''
 Q.What's made the most lasting impression on you?
 A. I am awed by the sheer tenacity of the human spirit. What we want for our children is universal. It doesn't matter what country you're in, when a baby is born, whether it's in a displaced persons camp, in the bush, in the city, in the ghetto. Everybody celebrates. There's hope that that child's life is going to be better than the one that preceded it. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Caryl M. Stern joined the United States Fund for Unicef in 2006 and became the president and chief executive in June 2007 after 18 years at the Anti-Defamation League.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID FORBES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); SICHUAN EARTHQUAKE (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); CHILDREN (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EARTHQUAKES (88%); CHARITIES (78%); TROPICAL DISEASES (78%); VACCINES (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (77%); MALARIA (77%); TSUNAMIS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); TROPICAL STORMS (73%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (73%); MYANMAR CYCLONE NARGIS (72%); PHILANTHROPY (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (94%); ANTI-DEFAMATION LEAGUE (83%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); SICHUAN, CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (94%); MYANMAR (92%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); SUDAN (79%); HAITI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2008



209 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: Slower Quarterly Growth In Pay and Productivity

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The efficiency of America's workers grew at a slightly slower pace in the spring as companies sought to produce more with leaner work forces. 
 Workers' compensation growth also slowed.
 The Labor Department reported Friday that productivity -- the amount an employee produces for every hour on the job -- grew at an annual rate of 2.2 percent in the quarter. That was down from a 2.6 percent growth rate in the first quarter.
 Economists were forecasting productivity to pick up slightly to a 2.7 percent pace.
 Meanwhile, growth in compensation -- wages and benefits -- also slowed as companies were less generous amid troubles in the economy and uncertainty about their own prospects.
 Unit labor costs slipped to a 1.3 percent pace in the second quarter, from a 2.5 percent growth rate in the first quarter. 
 Unit labor costs measure how much companies pay workers for every unit of output they produce. Economists look to this barometer for clues about inflation.
 The showing on compensation matched economists' expectations.
 The economy grew at a 1.9 percent pace in the second quarter, up from a 0.9 percent growth rate in the first quarter. The economy's growth rate reflects the value of all goods produced in the United States. In the second quarter -- as has happened all year -- employers cut jobs. Nearly a half million jobs have disappeared during the first seven months of the year.
 Companies have been trimming their payrolls and trying to satisfy customer demand with fewer workers as they cope with fallout from the housing and credit debacles, along with high prices for fuel and other raw materials.
 Confronted by problems at every turn, the Federal Reserve this week decided to hold a key interest rate steady. The central bank cannot afford to lower the rate because it could worsen inflation. On the other hand, raising rates too soon could hurt the economy and the already crippled housing market.

GRAPHIC: CHART: U.S. Productivity: Index of output per hour of all workers in nonfarm businesses, 1992 =100, seasonally adjusted. Chart details 2nd quarter preliminary Change at annual rate.(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) Chart details line graph. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORKERS COMPENSATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2008



210 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: Global Politics Add Oxygen to a Smoldering Dispute

BYLINE: By ELLEN BARRY

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
For centuries, the status of South Ossetia has been a nagging irritant on Russia's southern border -- sometimes akin to a canker sore, and sometimes an ulcer.
 The Ossetians, who number about 60,000, are part of the patchwork of ethnic groups that inhabit the mountains of the Caucasus. They have long yearned for separation from Georgia, appealing to Russia, their northern neighbor, for support. 
 Over the years, ethnic tension became a way of life in Tskhinvali, the provincial capital of South Ossetia, a city ringed by highlands where concrete street barriers were sometimes erected to keep the groups apart. During flare-ups, gangs of young men would ambush convoys on mountain roads. 
 But global politics have breathed new life into the conflict, making it a flash point for resurgent tensions between former cold war rivals. Russia, especially, sees a threat of creeping American influence as its former satellites seek to join NATO. 
 When Kosovo won Western backing for its bid for independence from Russia's historical ally Serbia, the Kremlin answered by vowing to win similar status for South Ossetia and for the Black Sea enclave of Abkhazia, which fall inside Georgia's borders. Georgian leaders, meanwhile, hoped to quiet the conflict once and for all before applying for NATO membership.
 Although Abkhazia has far more strategic importance to both sides, the city of Tskhinvali is in a valley ringed by Georgian-held villages, on terrain easily navigable by tanks. 
 Mountains seal off the region to the north, toward Russia, so separatists rely on a single key route -- the Roki Tunnel, which cuts deep through the mountains -- for commerce, military aid and evacuation to the north. 
 Georgian leaders have long felt they could take the enclave swiftly, pushing north in one or two days to the Russian border. 
 ''Without heavy reinforcement from Russia, the general sense is that Tskhinvali is not defensible,'' said Svante E. Cornell, research director of the Central Asia-Caucasus Institute at Johns Hopkins University. 
 Ossetians have long held themselves apart from ethnic Georgians, who make up more than 80 percent of Georgia's people; the Ossetian language has Persian rather than Caucasian roots, as Georgian does.
 In the early days of the Soviet Union, many Ossetians supported the Bolsheviks in suppressing a period of Georgian independence, giving rise to furious and lasting grudges. Ossetians can still reel off the names of villages that were burned by Georgian neighbors in the 1920s, and Georgians like to deride Ossetia as a den of smugglers. 
 Like Abkhazia, South Ossetia declared self-rule after a war in the early 1990s, but its status was never settled. Under a 1992 cease-fire agreement, it was managed by the Joint Control Commission, a body made of Georgian, Russian, North and South Ossetian representatives, with involvement from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Many ethnic Georgians fled, and with Russian and Georgian peacekeeping teams patrolling the region, 12 years followed with no military confrontation. 
 In 2004, the Georgian president, Mikheil Saakashvili, began a push to retake South Ossetia, including an antismuggling campaign aimed at shutting down a vast market that fueled much of the local economy. Tensions nearly led to full-scale war. 
 Hostilities routinely flare in the region late in the summer, when scarce water supplies pit neighbors against one another, said Sabine Freizer, the director of International Crisis Group's Europe program. Though women and children have evacuated Tskhinvali in recent days, many of those who remained were probably prepared to wage urban warfare when the Georgians arrived. 
 ''Basically, they just had to march in,'' she said. ''But I don't know what's going to happen afterwards. Ossetians are all armed, and they're going to fight back.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At a South Ossetian independence celebration in Tskhinvali in 2005, those who died in the war with Georgia were honored. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTYNA MIELNIKIEWICZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (88%); COLD WAR (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); SMUGGLING (73%); ETHNIC GROUPS (72%); ETHNICITY (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (56%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); GEORGIA (95%); CAUCASIAN STATES (94%); SERBIA (92%); KOSOVO (79%); EUROPE (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2008



211 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: UBS and S.E.C. in Accord Over Auction-Rate Securities

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
The Swiss bank UBS has reached a $19.4 billion agreement to buy back bonds in the biggest settlement yet over claims that banks misled investors to buy auction-rate securities, the Massachusetts secretary of state's office said Friday. 
 The agreement has been reached between UBS Financial Services and the Securities and Exchange Commission and regulators in several states, including Massachusetts and New York.
 Brian McNiff, a spokesman for the secretary of state, William F. Galvin, said an official announcement might not come until Monday. The deal was first disclosed in The Boston Globe.
 Auction-rate securities have interest rates set periodically, depending on submitted bids. The securities were once considered safe, but investors' finances were frozen after the market for them collapsed in February because of turbulence in the credit markets.
 In a June lawsuit accusing UBS of fraud, Mr. Galvin said the company knew last fall that the market was in serious trouble and warned its larger clients, including the state treasurer's office. But he said it did not tell its brokers or smaller customers, and continued to push the securities with ''profoundly deceptive sales practices'' in a scheme intended to reduce its own exposure to the market.
 As part of the deal, UBS customers with less than $1 million in auction-rate securities will get their money back by Oct. 31, while others will get their refund by Jan. 1, Mr. McNiff said. UBS also agreed to pay $150 million in fines, to be divided between Massachusetts and New York, he said.
 A UBS spokesman, Kris Kagel, did not comment on the deal, but said, ''We are consistently working with regulators toward a comprehensive solution.''
 The deal is the latest, and by far the largest, in a string of settlements involving state officials.
 In May, UBS agreed in a settlement with the Massachusetts attorney general, Martha Coakley, to buy back $37 million in auction-rate securities sold to Massachusetts cities and towns and the Massachusetts Turnpike Authority.
 Then in August, UBS agreed to pay state authorities $1 million to settle claims that it had sold auction-rate securities to local agencies in violation of Massachusetts law.
 News of the UBS deal comes a day after Citigroup agreed to buy back more than $7 billion in auction-rate securities and pay $100 million in fines as part of settlements with federal and state regulators.
 Also Thursday, Merrill Lynch agreed to buy back an estimated $10 billion in auction-rate securities from its clients over a one-year period beginning Jan. 15, 2009.
 In a related case, the Bank of New York Mellon Corporation said Friday in a regulatory filing that the S.E.C. was investigating the sale and purchase of auction-rate securities.
 Bank of New York Mellon said in the filing it was fully cooperating with the S.E.C.
 During the course of reviewing customer accounts at Mellon Securities, Bank of New York Mellon said it had found employees at Mellon Securities failed to comply with execution and regulatory requirements in connection with auction-rate securities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); LITIGATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (97%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); UBS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (97%); UBS (NYSE) (97%); BK (NYSE) (85%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (97%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (97%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: MARTHA COAKLEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2008



212 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: A Future for S.U.V.'s

 BODY:
We have heartily applauded Americans' collective decision to recognize the finite nature of the world's supply of fossil fuels and to start driving sensible vehicles. But we must also acknowledge that this abrupt change of heart is creating a new national challenge: what to do with the suddenly redundant S.U.V.? 
 The question is not only of pressing importance for Detroit's automakers, which are losing unimaginable sums of money as they rush to replace a business model centered around multiton trucks with one based on cars. It is a growing problem for hundreds of thousands of Americans who can't afford to drive a hulk that goes 13 miles on a gallon of gas when that gallon costs $4. Monthly sales of new S.U.V.'s fell 25 percent in July compared with the same month in 2007. One report suggested that in the first quarter of the year 17 percent of S.U.V. owners in the country were trying to get rid of them.
 It won't be easy. Thousands of secondhand S.U.V.'s sit unwanted and ignored in car dealerships across the land. On eBay, bids for 2008 Hummers are coming in at 50 percent of the sticker price. Car companies are not selling formerly leased S.U.V.'s for anywhere near the price they counted on.
 Some drivers are facing a grim choice between trading in the Ford Expedition for less than what they owe on it and continuing to shell out more than 25 cents per mile for gas. Even donating unwanted S.U.V.'s has become less attractive since the Internal Revenue Service tightened rules on deductions for such contributions.
 We suggest exploring foreign countries. The Russian market for cars, for instance, is booming -- thanks to a fast-growing economy and generous government subsidies that are keeping a lid on the price of gas. The best part is that Russians prefer secondhand imports over domestic Ladas and Volgas.
 Then there's the scrap market. With demand for steel growing briskly in developing countries, prices of scrap steel have doubled over the past year. Exports in the first four months of 2008 rose 22 percent compared with the same period a year earlier. Demand is so strong that manhole covers are disappearing from city streets, reappearing at scrap yards outside town. 
 If all else fails, there's always art. 
 The artist John Chamberlain made a name for himself making sculptures out of crushed automobile parts. Cadillac Ranch -- an array of graffiti-covered Cadillacs protruding at an angle from a field near Amarillo, Tex. -- has become one of the nation's landmarks. 
 With a few adaptations, a Lincoln Navigator might make a nice streetlamp.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%); NEW CAR DEALERS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (65%); VANDALISM (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMARILLO, TX, USA (71%) TEXAS, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2008



213 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: A Threat of Recession For Economies of Europe

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Read Floyd Norris's blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
A PLUNGE in orders for German exports this week increased fears that Germany, and much of Europe, is slipping into recession. When preliminary figures for second-quarter economic growth are released next Thursday, most economists expect that nations using the euro will show a decline in economic activity. 
 With Japan also expected to post a negative figure for second-quarter growth when it reports on Wednesday, and the economy already weak in the United States, the three major world economies are all stumbling, which cannot be good news for the emerging (and growing) economies like China and India.
 ''It now looks likely that the euro zone will be the first major economy to fall into recession,'' Jonathan Loynes, the chief European economist for Capital Economics, wrote after the report of sagging orders in Germany.
 Mr. Loynes was relying on a popular definition of recession -- two consecutive quarters of declines in gross domestic product, adjusted for inflation. In the United States, the official measure is more complicated, relying in part on judgment of experts at the National Bureau of Economic Research. Some economists think the experts will eventually conclude that a recession has already begun.
 Germany has remained the world's largest exporter even with the rise of China, which passed the United States in 2007. Germany's reliance on exports makes the data on new orders among the most watched. The figure for June, reported this week, was down 2.9 percent from May and was 8.4 percent below the figure from a year ago.
 Order figures can be volatile from month to month. But June was the seventh consecutive monthly decline, and some economists had expected a rebound from a particularly weak May figure. ''The export machine has been working very well,'' said Elga Bartsch, an economist who follows Germany for Morgan Stanley. ''Now it is slowing.''
 The accompanying chart smooths out the order figures by showing the annual change in three-month moving averages, for both domestic German orders and for export orders. It is the export orders that are especially weak now, particularly for shipments to other countries that use the euro, as weakness in those countries spreads to Germany. Within export orders, capital goods orders are the weakest, a fact that could foretell a significant problem for German industry if it continues.
 Consumer sentiment has taken a distinct negative turn in recent months. The other chart shows the sentiment regarding the economy in the 15 countries that use the euro. It has rarely been very good in recent years, but optimism outpaced pessimism a year ago.
 The index is based on answers to a question regarding the economy over the next 12 months, with respondents given three choices: that the economy will improve, stagnate or decline. A figure of 100 would indicate all respondents expected improvement, while negative 100 would indicate all expected deterioration. A figure of zero shows that those expecting good news equal those expecting bad news.
 For the euro area, the figure has fallen to negative 29.7, the lowest it has been since 1993. 
 Germans, by that measure, are relatively optimistic, at negative 16. It is the southern tier of euro countries that are the most pessimistic, with Greece at negative 60, Portugal at negative 51 and Spain at negative 37. Outside the euro zone, British consumers are also very fearful, at minus 50.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Germany's Export Machine Stumbles . . .: Year-over-year change in manufacturing orders received by German companies
 . . . And Consumers Fear the Worst: Manufacturing orders are the annual change in three-month moving averages, adjusted for inflation. Consumer sentiment figures are from answers to questions about whether the economy over the next 12 months will improve, stagnate or deteriorate. A zero figure indicates that as many respondents expect improvement as deterioration.(Sources: European Commission and the German government, both via Haver Analytics) Charts detail line graphs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); NEW ORDERS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); EURO (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (55%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (97%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2008



214 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Vote That Could Demand Ouster of Bolivian Leader May Strengthen His Hand

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: LA PAZ, Bolivia 

 BODY:
Faced with calls in a rebellious province for a military coup and with spreading protests that have kept him from landing his plane in parts of the country, President Evo Morales is pressing ahead with plans for a national referendum on Sunday intended to determine whether he and his top regional rivals should remain in office. 
 But analysts here expect the vote to heighten political tension in Bolivia, often described as South America's poorest country, instead of relieving it. 
 If Mr. Morales prevails in the referendum, his political opponents in relatively prosperous lowland provinces have vowed not to recognize the results, describing the president's stifling of judicial criticism of the vote as illegal. 
 ''This government has not learned how to govern, and for that reason I ask the armed forces to overthrow the president of the republic,'' Percy Fernandez, the mayor of Santa Cruz, Bolivia's largest and richest city and a bastion of separatist groups, said Thursday. The mayor's comments infuriated Mr. Morales and his senior advisers. 
 The stakes of the referendum are high for the United States, with Mr. Morales, a leader of Bolivia's coca growers union, fanning anti-American sentiment with accusations of coup-plotting by American diplomats and of secret eradication units of the United States Drug Enforcement Administration in coca-growing areas. 
 A mob of 20,000 marched to the gates of the American Embassy here in June, throwing dynamite at the police and threatening to burn the building down.
 Many supporters of Mr. Morales, an Aymara Indian who is the country's first president to explicitly identify with his indigenous roots, remain furious over the flight into exile in the United States of former President Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada and some officials of his government. 
 The officials stand accused of allowing the killing of 56 demonstrators in 2003. 
 Tension with the United States has eased since June, but Brazil and Argentina are also closely watching events here, with Bolivia remaining their largest source of imported natural gas. 
 Cocaine smuggling across the border to the two countries has also been increasing since coca cultivation climbed 5 percent in 2007, according to United Nations figures. 
 Mr. Morales tried to quash any talk of military discontent by leading an independence parade on Thursday in Cochabamba of 2,500 troops and 2,500 indigenous representatives. A radical faction called the Red Ponchos, an Aymara Indian group from the high plains that supports the president, led the indigenous portion of the parade. 
 Mr. Morales also announced a new allotment of $30 million for Bolivia's navy, an institution of high nationalistic importance even though the country is landlocked, having lost its coastline to neighboring Chile in a 19th-century war. 
 Still, chances of a military uprising are considered extremely low. 
 ''Why would the military want to open that Pandora's box?'' asked Gonzalo Chavez, a Harvard-educated economist at the Catholic University of La Paz. ''There is no broad support for a military option to a crisis that is evolving to a higher level of ungovernability.'' 
 Two miners were killed in violent protests this week, and demonstrators in the gas-rich department of Tarija prevented Mr. Morales from meeting there on Tuesday with President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, whose financial and military aid to Mr. Morales's government is chafed at in parts of Bolivia. 
 Despite the spreading protests, Mr. Morales is expected to win the referendum, with support among Aymara and Quechua Indians in the highlands remaining strong. But the vote's rules, drafted to make it easier to oust governors than the president, may open a new stage of confrontation if some of the governors lose. 
 That outcome would allow Mr. Morales to pick the governors' successors, which could aggravate tension in some areas over redistributing petroleum royalties to bolster social security payments for impoverished elderly citizens. Political leaders in eastern Santa Cruz began a hunger strike this week aimed at recovering a portion of the royalties. 
 Yet while Mr. Morales and his opponents square off over specific policies, the vote on Sunday also revolves around the president's broader ambitions to reconfigure Bolivia's political system to benefit the country's indigenous peoples, who make up more than 60 percent of Bolivia's 10 million inhabitants. 
 Despite discontent in several provinces that have drafted their own autonomy statutes, with vague prospects of how they could be put into effect, Mr. Morales has higher approval ratings than any Bolivian president in recent memory, about 60 percent. Partly because of high prices for the country's mining exports, the economy may grow 6 percent this year. 
 But with inflation of 9.5 percent trailing only Venezuela and Argentina among Latin American countries, Mr. Morales has increasingly found himself on the defensive, lashing out at the United States and the political opposition. At the inauguration of a gas pipeline last month, he explained his view of revolutionary priorities and the law. 
 ''When a jurist tells me, 'Evo, you are making a legal mistake; what you are doing is illegal,' I go ahead even if it's illegal,'' Mr. Morales said. ''I later tell the lawyers, 'If it's illegal, you make it legal. Otherwise, what have you studied for?' '' 
 Bolivia's fractious judicial system, with some pro-Morales judges supporting the referendum and others denouncing irregularities, has seemingly found a reflection in the streets of some of Bolivia's largest cities. Crowds adulate Mr. Morales in La Paz, but safe passage for the president cannot be guaranteed in some regional capitals. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Evo Morales of Bolivia on Thursday in El Alto, campaigning for a Sunday referendum. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH FRIEDMAN-RUDOVSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); COUPS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); COCAINE (87%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); POLITICS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); SMUGGLING (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); HOMICIDE (66%); IMPORT TRADE (66%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (65%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: US DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOLIVIA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); CHILE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2008



215 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1423 words

HEADLINE: Games Open in a New China, Dazzling an Age of New Media

BYLINE: By JIM YARDLEY; Andrew Jacobs and David Barboza contributed reporting. Huang Yuanxi and Jessie Jiang contributed research.

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
An ecstatic China finally got its Olympic moment on Friday night. And if the astonishing opening ceremonies of the 2008 Olympic Games lavished grand tribute on Chinese civilization and sought to stir an ancient nation's pride, there was also a message for an uncertain outside world: Do not worry. We mean no harm.
 Usually, that message is delivered by the dour-faced leaders of the ruling Communist Party, who dutifully, if sometimes unconvincingly, regurgitate the phrase ''harmonious society'' coined by President Hu Jintao. But in the nimble cinematic hands of Zhang Yimou, the filmmaker who directed the opening ceremonies, the politics of harmony were conveyed in a visual extravaganza.
 The opening ceremonies gave the Communist Party its most uninterrupted, unfiltered chance to reach a gargantuan global audience. At one point, thousands of large umbrellas were snapped open to reveal the smiling, multicultural faces of children of the global village. Benetton could not have done it better. 
 Any Olympic opening is a propaganda exercise, but Friday night's blockbuster show demonstrated the broader public relations challenge facing the Communist Party as China becomes richer and more powerful. The party wants to inspire national pride within China, and bolster its own legitimacy in the process, even as leaders want to reassure the world that a rising China poses no danger. 
 That has not been an easy sales pitch during the tumultuous Olympics prelude, in which violent Tibetan protests and a devastating earthquake revealed the dark and light sides of Chinese nationalism. 
 But for one night, at least, the party succeeded wildly after a week dominated by news of polluted skies, sporadic protests and a sweeping security clampdown. Across Beijing, the public rejoiced. People painted red Chinese flags on their cheeks and shouted, ''Go China!'' long after the four-hour opening had concluded. 
 ''For a lot of foreigners, the only image of China comes from old movies that make us look poor and pathetic,'' said Ci Lei, 29, who watched the pageantry on a large-screen television at an upscale downtown bar. ''Now look at us. We showed the world we can build new subways and beautiful modern buildings. The Olympics will redefine the way people see us.''
 China has grown so rapidly that even people who live here often do not realize that the country that, seven years ago, won the right to stage the Games is no longer the same place. In 2001, China's gross domestic product was $1.3 trillion; this year, it is estimated to reach $3.6 trillion. 
 The scale and speed of that growth often leaves the outside world awed, but also worried. China has the world's largest authoritarian political system. Chinese society is prospering, even as it is cleaved by inequality and struggling with human rights abuses, corruption and severe pollution.
 China is asserting its diplomatic muscle in Asia and Africa and pumping money into a military that by the Pentagon's estimates now has greater resources than any except that of the United States. Yet foreign investment and open export markets have been crucial to China's success, and it still seeks, even depends on, the support and respect of the United States and Europe.
 These contradictions are one reason Mr. Hu has promoted the amorphous concept of a ''harmonious society'' as a rhetorical tent encompassing policies intended to soothe, if not necessarily resolve, a range of tensions.
 Earlier on Friday, Mr. Hu hosted world leaders at a luncheon inside the Great Hall of the People. His table guests illustrated China's evolving, sometimes conflicted role in world affairs.
 At one seat was Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, with whom China sided in July to veto a United Nations resolution, backed strongly by the United States, that would have imposed sanctions on Zimbabwe, after most observers had concluded that Robert Mugabe stole the presidential election there. 
 President Bush shared the same table. So did the Japanese prime minister, Yasuo Fukuda, with whom China has been conducting a careful reconciliation intended to repair relations that were badly strained by nationalist fervor in both countries just a few years ago.
 Perhaps no guest better illustrated China's uncertain diplomatic balancing than President Nicolas Sarkozy of France.
 Earlier this year Mr. Sarkozy threatened to boycott the opening ceremonies to protest China's crackdown of the Tibetan protests in March. Chinese nationalists, cheered by the state-run media, promoted a boycott of the French retailer Carrefour and filled the Internet with anti-French postings. France and China then scrambled to contain the damage and reopen the door to Mr. Sarkozy's visit.
 ''The historic moment we have long awaited is arriving,'' Mr. Hu said in a speech at the luncheon. ''The world has never needed mutual understanding, mutual toleration and mutual cooperation as much as it does today.''
 China first bid for the Games 15 years ago, when party leaders were struggling to recover their legitimacy at home and abroad after they violently suppressed pro-democracy protesters in Beijing in 1989. They were rejected then, though by a narrow margin, and when China won the right to host the 2008 Games, the Olympics had become something of a national obsession.
 Leaders spent an estimated $43 billion in building roads, stadiums, parks and subway lines in trying to transform Beijing into an Olympic city.
 Plans to welcome the world -- ''Beijing welcomes you!'' is one Olympic slogan -- have suffered from polluted skies and the presence of a security force of more than 100,000 people summoned to guard against terrorist attacks. 
 Yet even amid such a huge police presence, the crowds that gathered near the Olympic Village on Friday afternoon were giddy and proud that China could show itself to the world. Yang Bin, a D.J., had traveled more than 500 miles to Beijing from the city of Chongqing. 
 ''I came to Beijing last night to celebrate the Olympics, even though I don't have a ticket,'' Mr. Yang said. ''China is never more glorious than today. The whole world is watching us.''
 The opening ceremonies reportedly cost tens of millions of dollars and involved 15,000 performers inside the latticed shell of the city's new National Stadium, known as the Bird's Nest. No Olympic opening ceremonies are thought to have approached it in cost and scale. 
 The production was filled with signature Chinese touches: the elaborate choreography of dancers on a giant calligraphy scroll; the undulating rows of Chinese characters, with the character for ''harmony'' illuminated; and the use of masses of people, working in unison into a grand spectacle centered on traditional Chinese history, music, dance and art.
 ''This is a huge gathering for sports lovers, and I am one of them,'' said the composer Tan Dun, whose score will be played during gold medal ceremonies. ''This is a lot more than about China. If we think this is only China's moment, it's a big mistake. It's the moment of the world.''
 Mr. Zhang, the filmmaker, has said he wanted the opening ceremonies to be his gift to China. The climactic moment of the evening came during the dramatic ceremonies to light the Olympic flame. Li Ning, a Chinese gold-medal winner in gymnastics, was hoisted by thin cables to the stadium's roof with the torch in his hand.
 Then, as the cables slowly guided him around the inner rim of the roof, as if he were running, a digital scroll unfurled behind him with images of some of the thousands of other torch bearers who had carried the flame during its journey around the world this spring. The mesmerizing sight culminated with Mr. Li igniting a giant torch affixed to the roof. 
 China had called the torch relay a Journey of Harmony. But unharmonious protests erupted during the torch's stops in London, Paris, San Francisco and elsewhere. Those images were absent from Mr. Zhang's digital scroll. Filmmakers, of course, work from a script.
 Just as men really cannot fly, art is not reality. As Friday night proved, art and artifice can inspire. One burden of staging one spectacular show is that people will want and expect an even more spectacular one in the future. And as China's leaders celebrate, that is the challenge facing them. 
 The Beijing Olympics are now under way. They will end on Aug. 24. Then the world will exhale and look away from China and its search for harmony. But the Chinese people may want more. And then the real Games of China will begin again.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Survivors of the May earthquake that killed nearly 70,000 people watched the opening ceremonies of the Olympics on Friday from a temporary camp in Yong'an.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ELIZABETH DALZIEL/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
President Bush with the American women's water polo team Friday, left. Chinese followed the ceremonies on an outdoor screen in Beijing, center, and in a migrant workers' residence, right.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMIE SQUIRE/GETTY IMAGES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY SHIHO FUKADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW WONG/GETTY IMAGES)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUMMER OLYMPICS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); POLITICS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); CORRUPTION (64%); EARTHQUAKES (50%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (50%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (96%); ASIA (79%); TIBET (79%); AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2008



216 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Finding The Upside

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Sometimes when you cover politics it helps to have a bottle of Pepto-Bismol handy.
 Some of the tactics of the McCain campaign have given me agita recently. But the latest campaign to turn my stomach was that of Nikki Tinker, a black woman who challenged a Jewish congressman, Steve Cohen, in a Democratic primary in Memphis.
 Ms. Tinker was a candidate with nothing substantive to offer. A corporate lawyer, she was not particularly knowledgeable about Iraq or the economy or other important issues of the day. The raison d'etre of her campaign seemed to be that she was an African-American running in a district in which the majority of the voters were also African-American. 
 And so she turned to the lowest tactics imaginable. In essence: let's smear the white guy and get rid of him.
 Mr. Cohen is seeking a second term. He is a reliably progressive congressman and an opponent of the Iraq war, and he has had a consistently solid record on civil rights. He was described by Speaker Nancy Pelosi as ''the conscience of the freshman class.''
 So it was not just bizarre, but absolutely perverse of Ms. Tinker to try and link him in a television ad to the Ku Klux Klan. The ad, which ran this week, juxtaposed an image of Mr. Cohen with that of a hooded Klansman. The issue the ad was trying to make was completely spurious.
 Mr. Cohen was criticized for a vote he cast in 2005 when he was on a development board in Memphis. The vote opposed the renaming of a park that was named for Nathan Bedford Forrest, a Confederate general who was a founder of the Klan. The measure he opposed would also have required that Forrest's body and a statue of Forrest be removed from the park.
 Mr. Cohen (and a number of black officials, as well) felt the matter was not worth the protracted community turmoil that could have resulted from the proposed changes. 
 Commenting on the absurdity of the attempted link to the Klan, Mr. Cohen wryly commented, ''It's not like Nathan Bedford Forrest was inviting Jews over to celebrate Seder.''
 The egregious Ms. Tinker was hardly finished traveling the low road. The Ku Klux Klan ad was followed by the ''prayer ad.'' Having exploited race against a candidate who was white, it was time to exploit religion against a candidate who also happened to be Jewish.
 In the ad that followed the Klan garbage, the image of Mr. Cohen was displayed while viewers listened to the voice of a child praying, ''Now I lay me down to sleep ...'' The prayer is interspersed with the voice of a woman (clearly intended to sound African-American) who says:
 ''Who is the real Steve Cohen anyway? While he's in our churches, clapping his hands and tapping his feet ...''
 The emphasis on the word ''our'' is in the ad, which goes on to say, again spuriously, that Mr. Cohen voted against school prayer. The message is sick. It's saying, in essence: Here's this Jewish guy coming into ''our'' churches, tapping his feet and clapping his hands, when in reality he's got a problem with letting ''our'' children pray.
 The truth: Mr. Cohen has never voted against school prayer. That's a constitutional issue that has been decided by the Supreme Court. More than 10 years ago, as a state senator, Mr. Cohen voted against a grandstanding piece of meaningless legislation named by its pandering sponsor as the ''religious student liberty act.''
 The proposal would have had no effect whatever on whether children could pray in school.
 The prayer ad came in an environment in which leaflets were being spread, apparently by an out-of-town minister, asking: ''Why do Steve Cohen and the Jews hate Jesus?''
 Talk about a sinkhole. Or cesspool. Choose your metaphor.
 Now the good news.
 The primary vote was Thursday. And in that Ninth Congressional District of Memphis, a district that is predominantly black in a city that has had its share of racial trouble -- the city in which the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was shot and killed -- Mr. Cohen won an astonishing 80 percent of the vote, sweeping all demographic categories and destroying the disgusting (yes, stomach-turning) campaign of Nikki Tinker.
 For the moment, at least, we can put the Pepto-Bismol aside and raise a glass of Champagne.
 The voters in Mr. Cohen's district rejected the Tinker tactics overwhelmingly, refusing to succumb to the blandishments of racism or anti-Semitism. Instead of abandoning their congressman, they rallied around him when the filth started coming his way. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); RELIGION (77%); IRAQ WAR (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (65%)

PERSON: STEVE COHEN (89%); STEVEN A COHEN (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2008



217 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: Calculating Where Prices Will Land

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
Let's be honest. No one actually knows when and where the housing market will bottom. Experts have been proclaiming the bottom is now -- this very moment -- since Alan Greenspan notoriously predicted the worst was over way back in 2006.
 But there are some signs that might indicate the end is nigh, and those signs paint a picture of what that bottom might look like. 
 The New York Times asked economists across the country to share the data they use to figure out how much houses in regional markets are overvalued, a calculation that approximates where the bottom may be. Models built on these variables show that while some markets -- such as California -- are on a road to recovery, others -- such as south Florida -- have a way to go. 
 These signs cannot possibly tell the whole story, especially since they point more toward where prices should be valued than where they will be. But these measures are nonetheless helpful to anyone buying, selling or borrowing against their home sweet home. 
 ''Anybody who says they know when it's going to end with confidence is delusional,'' said Karl E. Case, an economics professor at Wellesley College and co-creator of the Case-Shiller home price index. ''But yes, you can get a sense of where things are going.''
 One way to envision the bottom would be to look back at where prices were five or 10 years ago, before the current price run-up. There are some better ways, though.
 Noting that home prices have outpaced inflation in the past, one can calculate how much houses appreciated annually in the decades before the bubble, and then figure out how far out of line prices are now. Edward E. Leamer, director of the U.C.L.A. Anderson Forecast, has crunched these numbers for various regional markets. 
 In Ocean City, N.J., for example, inflation-adjusted house prices rose about 1.6 percent a year from 1988 through 2002. Compared with what this rate would predict, the city's houses in the first quarter of this year were overvalued by 51 percent. Over the previous year, they had fallen 0.6 percent; at this pace, Ocean City house prices will be at the right level in about 13 years. The model foretells eternal decline for some cities. It predicts that Kingston, N.Y., will not return to ''normal'' for almost four centuries.
 Part of the reason these numbers may be hard to swallow, Mr. Leamer says, is that they do not capture the many differences between the economic conditions of the 1980s and today, or even 2002 and today. Income, mortgage rates and popular vacation spots have changed since then, as have myriad other factors deeply entwined with house prices. 
 Many experts look to price-to-rent ratios to estimate where house prices should be in a region. Because renting is a direct alternative to buying, and because rents tend to be less volatile than prices, rents are often considered to be a good shorthand for figuring out the intrinsic value of a home. 
 In the past decade, the price-to-rent ratio in many markets has exploded, indicating that people have been paying much more for their homes than the property is actually worth. From 1994 to 2002, for example, Phoenix had an average ratio of 11, according to data from Moody'sEconomy.com. After peaking in the last quarter of 2002 at 22.5, it cooled to about 17.3 in the first quarter of this year. 
 This measure is popular but problematic because some economists say many of the homes that people rent (apartments in multifamily buildings) may not be comparable to the types of homes that people buy (single-family houses). 
 Another ratio that housing economists watch is the ratio of home prices to per-capita income. This is telling because it shows whether Americans can actually afford the houses in their area. 
 Looking at previous peaks and troughs in the income ratio can provide an idea of where the housing market will bottom in a particular city. In Boston, for example, the housing market peaked in the late 1980s around 11, and then hovered around 7.5 when it bottomed in the late 1990s, according to Mr. Case. This time around, it peaked at over 12, and in the first quarter of this year, it was just over 10. 
 Income and employment have had a particularly depressing effect on some regional housing markets. 
 In the Midwest, said Mr. Case, ''they never had a boom. There was no bubble. There's just a bust because employment's dropping like a rock.'' In Detroit, for example, the price to per-capita income ratio grew gradually from 1991 to about 2004, and has dropped steeply since then. 
 Some economists argue that the price to per-capita income ratio is misleading, because the price used in that model does not take into account the full cost for buyers. This full cost should include not just the price of the house but mortgage rates as well. 
 ''As long as anyone can remember, as long as we have data, mortgage rates have been about 1.6 percent above the 10-year Treasury rate,'' said Christopher J. Mayer, an economist and senior vice dean at Columbia Business School. ''Today, it's more like 2.5 percent above the 10-year Treasury. That's a gigantic difference, literally reducing the amount of house someone could afford by 20 percent.''
 He has put together, in a model that has not yet been published, a rough calculation of where house prices should be if mortgage markets were functioning the way they had been in the last few decades. 
 This model shows that big-bubble cities like Miami and Phoenix were still overvalued in the range of 13 percent in May. It also found that San Francisco and Boston homes were corrected to the right level, and that homes were actually undervalued in New York by 5 percent. 
 Still, Mr. Mayer says prices in these cities will probably continue to fall because of deteriorating mortgage markets and economic fundamentals. 
 Yet another ratio worth watching is the relationship of housing inventory to sales. This measures the imbalance between supply and demand, which is the economist's holy grail of market behavior. 
 A recent International Monetary Fund paper argued this measure was the strongest determinant of housing prices in the short run. Booming areas were often overbuilt and have the most inventory to clear out before prices can recover. Inventory-to-sales ratio declines across California, for example, have given hope that the state is nearing recovery. 
 Economists put together many of these variables, along with others, to predict where housing prices will fall. Moody's Economy.com, for example, uses a complex data cocktail to calculate how overvalued each U.S. metropolitan area is. Its model takes into account per-capita income, wealth, vacation home demand, the attractiveness of investing in housing relative to other types of investments, and shifts in the availability of mortgage credit. 
 Mr. Mayer's model, while unusual for its emphasis on mortgage rates, also uses rents, property tax rates, personal income tax rates, government interest rates, expected inflation and other factors. 
 The wrench in all these models is that this is the first national housing bust since anybody started keeping track of many of these useful data points. It is hard to predict how the national trends will affect state and city housing markets, which are otherwise very local organisms. 
 Trends from past national housing cycles are not especially helpful this time around. Mr. Case said that gross residential investment, the building of new homes, as a percent of gross domestic product peaked at about 5.6 percent and hit its trough at about 3.5 percent in three previous national housing cycles, from 1973 to 1991. 
 These levels might therefore seem like good guidelines for the current cycle, which peaked at 5.5 percent in 2006. But the indicator has already dipped below that historic bottom, falling to 3.1 percent of G.D.P. in the second quarter of this year. 
 For these reasons, some experts argued that it was silly to try to build a mathematical model for the market's overvaluation. Too much is unknown, they say, to make any predictions. 
 ''I try to avoid house price forecasting,'' said Paul S. Willen, senior economist and policy adviser at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. ''Let me just say this, as an economist, that asset pricing is something we're exceptionally bad at.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Prospective home buyers must contend with higher mortgage rates and a less certain employment picture than in years past.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES)
Unsold homes, such as the foreclosed Florida property above, are weighing on prices.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) (pg. C4) CHART: What's It Really Worth?: An analysis by Columbia Business School shows that home prices are still well above long-term averages in many cities. This is because rising mortgage rates make it more expensive to own -- meaning prices need to fall further before people can afford to buy. Even in cities where houses seem undervalued, prices may continue to fall because of economic conditions.
PERCENT OVERVALUED . . .: Percent above or below a long-term measure of home prices based on the cost of owning relative to renting, mortgage rates, tax rates, expected inflation and other factors.(Source: Christopher Mayer, Columbia Business School) Chart details bar graph for various cities.
Three Ways of Looking at Home Prices: Here are what three economic models of home prices indicated the level of over- or undervaluation to be in 10 cities at the end of March. Prices have fallen significantly in many places since then.(Sources: Christopher Mayer, Columbia Business School
Moody's Economy.com and Fiserv Lending Solutions
 Edward E. Leamer, U.C.L.A. Anderson Forecast) Chart details LEVEL OF OVER- OR UNDERVALUATION.(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); MORTGAGE RATES (60%); INTEREST RATES (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (59%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2008



218 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: Musharraf Under Fire

 BODY:
Pakistan's civilian leaders stirred a new political hornet's nest by declaring their intention to impeach President Pervez Musharraf. It is not certain whether they will succeed, but it is clear that the issue must be resolved with speed and respect for democracy. 
 The coalition government that was elected in February has been weak, fractious and fumbling. It must get beyond the paralyzing political dispute with Mr. Musharraf and begin focusing seriously on bringing stability to the nuclear-armed country. It also must grapple with its many daunting problems, including a faltering economy and the resurgence of Al Qaeda and the Taliban.
 The coalition leaders -- Asif Ali Zardari, widower of the former prime minister Benazir Bhutto, and Nawaz Sharif, a two-time former prime minister -- plan to have the National Assembly, Pakistan's lower house of Parliament, initiate proceedings as early as Monday. The process, which Mr. Musharraf helped accelerate by threatening to dismiss Parliament, could well be protracted.
 There are other less disruptive ways for Mr. Zardari and Mr. Sharif to air their differences with Mr. Musharraf. They have yet, for example, to fulfill their pledge to reinstate the Supreme Court judges who were fired by Mr. Musharraf last November and who are expected to rule that his October 2007 re-election is invalid. 
 Impeachment, which has never happened to a president in Pakistan, would be a long fall for Mr. Musharraf. The former army general took power in a 1999 coup and used dictatorial means to retain power before the February elections put his political adversaries in charge of the government and marginalized him. He would do everyone a favor if he agreed to resign and left politics.
 However troubled his former army colleagues may be at this turn of events, they must not stage another coup to protect Mr. Musharraf. His successor as military chief, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kiyani, has distinguished himself by promising repeatedly that the army would stay out of politics. Keeping that promise is vital.
 Similarly, President Bush, who for too long enabled Mr. Musharraf and undercut democracy in Pakistan, must resist any temptation to intervene on the former general's behalf. That would further alienate Pakistanis and fuel instability. 
 There are no quick and easy fixes for Pakistan, but it will have no chance if its civilian leaders, its army and the United States do not work together to build more effective democratic governance, an economic future and a coordinated plan for routing the Taliban and Al Qaeda. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPEACHMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALIBAN (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); AL-QAEDA (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); JUDGES (72%); SUPREME COURTS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (92%); NAWAZ SHARIF (74%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (74%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2008



219 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Flush With Energy

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: Copenhagen 

 BODY:
 The Arctic Hotel in Ilulissat, Greenland, is a charming little place on the West Coast, but no one would ever confuse it for a Four Seasons -- maybe a One Seasons. But when my wife and I walked back to our room after dinner the other night and turned down our dim hallway, the hall light went on. It was triggered by an energy-saving motion detector. Our toilet even had two different flushing powers depending on -- how do I say this delicately -- what exactly you're flushing. A two-gear toilet! I've never found any of this at an American hotel. Oh, if only we could be as energy efficient as Greenland!
 A day later, I flew back to Denmark. After appointments here in Copenhagen, I was riding in a car back to my hotel at the 6 p.m. rush hour. And boy, you knew it was rush hour because 50 percent of the traffic in every intersection was bicycles. That is roughly the percentage of Danes who use two-wheelers to go to and from work or school every day here. If I lived in a city that had dedicated bike lanes everywhere, including one to the airport, I'd go to work that way, too. It means less traffic, less pollution and less obesity. 
 What was most impressive about this day, though, was that it was raining. No matter. The Danes simply donned rain jackets and pants for biking. If only we could be as energy smart as Denmark!
 Unlike America, Denmark, which was so badly hammered by the 1973 Arab oil embargo that it banned all Sunday driving for a while, responded to that crisis in such a sustained, focused and systematic way that today it is energy independent. (And it didn't happen by Danish politicians making their people stupid by telling them the solution was simply more offshore drilling.)
 What was the trick? To be sure, Denmark is much smaller than us and was lucky to discover some oil in the North Sea. But despite that, Danes imposed on themselves a set of gasoline taxes, CO2 taxes and building-and-appliance efficiency standards that allowed them to grow their economy -- while barely growing their energy consumption -- and gave birth to a Danish clean-power industry that is one of the most competitive in the world today. Denmark today gets nearly 20 percent of its electricity from wind. America? About 1 percent. 
 And did Danes suffer from their government shaping the market with energy taxes to stimulate innovations in clean power? In one word, said Connie Hedegaard, Denmark's minister of climate and energy: ''No.'' It just forced them to innovate more -- like the way Danes recycle waste heat from their coal-fired power plants and use it for home heating and hot water, or the way they incinerate their trash in central stations to provide home heating. (There are virtually no landfills here.) 
 There is little whining here about Denmark having $10-a-gallon gasoline because of high energy taxes. The shaping of the market with high energy standards and taxes on fossil fuels by the Danish government has actually had ''a positive impact on job creation,'' added Hedegaard. ''For example, the wind industry -- it was nothing in the 1970s. Today, one-third of all terrestrial wind turbines in the world come from Denmark.'' In the last 10 years, Denmark's exports of energy efficiency products have tripled. Energy technology exports rose 8 percent in 2007 to more than $10.5 billion in 2006, compared with a 2 percent rise in 2007 for Danish exports as a whole.
 ''It is one of our fastest-growing export areas,'' said Hedegaard. It is one reason that unemployment in Denmark today is 1.6 percent. In 1973, said Hedegaard, ''we got 99 percent of our energy from the Middle East. Today it is zero.''
 Frankly, when you compare how America has responded to the 1973 oil shock and how Denmark has responded, we look pathetic. 
 ''I have observed that in all other countries, including in America, people are complaining about how prices of [gasoline] are going up,'' Denmark's prime minister, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, told me. ''The cure is not to reduce the price, but, on the contrary, to raise it even higher to break our addiction to oil. We are going to introduce a new tax reform in the direction of even higher taxation on energy and the revenue generated on that will be used to cut taxes on personal income -- so we will improve incentives to work and improve incentives to save energy and develop renewable energy.''
 Because it was smart taxes and incentives that spurred Danish energy companies to innovate, Ditlev Engel, the president of Vestas -- Denmark's and the world's biggest wind turbine company -- told me that he simply can't understand how the U.S. Congress could have just failed to extend the production tax credits for wind development in America. 
 Why should you care?
 ''We've had 35 new competitors coming out of China in the last 18 months,'' said Engel, ''and not one out of the U.S.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); HOME SECURITY (76%); WIND ENERGY (76%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (76%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (74%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (71%); POWER PLANTS (71%); MOTION DETECTORS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (71%); GASOLINE (69%); CONSUMPTION (67%); OBESITY (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (64%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (64%); WIND POWER PLANTS (63%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (60%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (60%); FUEL TAX (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (92%) NORTH SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) GREENLAND (94%); DENMARK (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ARCTIC (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



220 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: Rose Mack, Lloyd Krieger

 BODY:
Rose Ann Mack and Dr. Lloyd Matthew Krieger were married on Friday. Rabbi Barry Tuchman officiated at the couple's home in Los Angeles. 
 Until June, Mrs. Krieger, 39, was an instructor of design history in the interior design program at Brown College in Mendota Heights, Minn. She graduated from the University of Wisconsin-Stout, and received a master's in art history and museum studies from the University of St. Thomas in St. Paul. 
 She is a daughter of Barbara and James Mack of Norwalk, Wis. Her parents are retired dairy farmers.
 Dr. Krieger, 41, is a plastic surgeon in Beverly Hills, Calif. He is also a freelance writer on health, economics and medically related venture capital. He graduated from Stanford University and received a medical degree and an M.B.A. from the University of Chicago. 
 He is the son of Marsha Krieger and Dr. Abbott J. Krieger of Pacific Palisades, Calif. His father is retired from his neurosurgery practice in Livingston, N.J.; he was also the chief of neurosurgery and a professor of neurosurgery at the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, in Newark. The bridegroom's mother retired as manager of the neurosurgery practice. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (91%); NEUROSCIENCE (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); INTERIOR DECORATING (78%); HISTORY (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); ART HISTORY (72%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (70%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (68%); DENTISTRY (66%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (54%); VENTURE CAPITAL (53%)

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MEDICINE & DENTISTRY OF NEW JERSEY (69%); UNIVERSITY OF ST THOMAS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (58%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (86%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



221 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Imagine Being Old. First, Define Old.

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Fast-Forwarding to Age 85, With Lessons on Offering Better Care for Elderly'' (news article, Aug. 3):
 As anyone who works to change attitudes toward disability knows, simulation programs allow participants to experience only one aspect of the problem. A realistic simulation would also ask them to negotiate the health care bureaucracy, brave public transportation for an urgent appointment and hire affordable, reliable assistants to help them.
 It would make their bodies appear old and ask them to observe how they're treated by everyone from store clerks to doctors. Truly ambitious participants could spend a week in a nursing home in a suit that replicated both the inward and outward impression of being elderly. 
 We must deal with how American society abandons those whom it wrongly sees as having nothing to contribute.
 Catherine Kudlick Davis, Calif., Aug. 3, 2008
 The writer is a professor of history, University of California at Davis, and president of the Disability History Association.
 To the Editor:
 Your article discusses laudable efforts of medical schools and nursing homes to sensitize health professionals to the frequently severe limitations of the aged. But it did not mention the concept of functional age compared with chronological age. 
 The variability of the average functional age gets larger with advancing chronological age: a random sample of 30-year-olds is closer to their average than is the case for 85-year-olds.
 It is important to remember that a specific 85-year-old individual may be functioning like a healthy, alert 70-year-old with adequate hearing and even good vision.
 Joseph Goldman Bronx, Aug. 3, 2008
 To the Editor:
 The biggest problem for many people over 85 is not having enough money to live on. This is especially true of retirees who depend on a 401(k) or an I.R.A. and are now facing inflation, a decline in the stock market and mandatory minimum distributions.
 A retirement accumulation that is adequate at age 65 may not be adequate at 85 and will certainly not be at 100. But the mandatory minimum withdrawal schedule forces retirees to withdraw more than they need in their ''young'' old age, leaving less for their ''old'' old age, when their medical needs will probably increase.
 Surely, it was not Congress's intention to mandate poverty for the long-lived, most of whom are women. The mandatory minimum withdrawal schedule should be abolished or restructured to allow flexibility for retirees.
 Bernice G. Rosenthal New York, Aug. 6, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Aging simulations have also been used in college courses. Unfortunately, when college students engage in simulations of the severe physical declines of aging, they experience fear of older adults rather than empathy. 
 To convey the range of experiences in late life, I take a different approach in my classes. I randomly assign half of the students to ''successful aging.'' They are in good health, active, and can plan travel and leisure activities with family. I assign a third to impoverished aging, and they experience a simulation of physical declines while having to complete an application for Medicaid. 
 The remaining students? They are the unlucky ones. They don't make it to old age.
 Karen Fingerman West Lafayette, Ind., Aug. 5, 2008
 The writer is a professor of developmental and family studies at Purdue University.
 To the Editor: 
 As someone who teaches a course called ''Health Aspects of Aging,'' I have long known about old-age simulations. But I can't help wondering how much the types of simulations discussed in your article can reinforce stereotypes.
 It is my belief that every disease or disorder that is simulated should be balanced with a healthy aging simulation. For example, students could shadow an older athlete or a Red Cross volunteer. 
 And if we can simulate aging, why not simulate other age groups? Picture this: simulated acne and tattoos for adolescence or simulated divorces and custody battles for the middle-aged. Would that be representative?
 David E. Corbin Omaha, Aug. 4, 2008
 The writer is a professor of health education at the University of Nebraska at Omaha.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASON POLAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NURSING HOMES (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); US 401K PLANS (77%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (76%); WRITERS (73%); HISTORY (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



222 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; BROWSING BOOKS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Paperback Row

BYLINE: By ELSA DIXLER

 BODY:
RICHISTAN: A Journey Through the American Wealth Boom and the Lives of the New Rich, by Robert Frank. (Three Rivers, $13.95.) The rich are different from you and me, like the man said, and Frank, a reporter for The Wall Street Journal, suggests that they inhabit a ''parallel country.'' (You don't live there unless your household worth is more than $10 million a year; otherwise you're merely ''affluent.'') Frank calls the country Richistan, and like a foreign correspondent he aims ''to explore its people and places and explain them to the rest of the world.'' This he does with well-chosen details, interesting statistics and a sense of fun. 
 AFTERWARDS, by Rachel Seiffert. (Vintage International, $14.95.) A young woman struggles to understand her boyfriend and her grandfather, both of whom are deeply disturbed by their memories of the violence they observed and inflicted as soldiers. In this economically written and suspenseful novel, Seiffert shows how war -- in this case, the conflict in Northern Ireland -- disables a whole society. 
 THE RIVER QUEEN: A Memoir, by Mary Morris. (Picador, $15.) Her father's death and her only daughter's departure for college prompted Morris, in the fall of 2005, to board a riverboat in La Crosse, Wis., for a journey down the Mississippi. On a boat with a quirky captain and no running water, visiting the river towns where her father grew up, Morris struggles to understand the past and regain her bearings. Taking the helm for the first time, she writes: ''I am watching for something I cannot see and I do not even know what it is. I have no idea how to read the surface in order to know what lies beneath.'' 
 MESSENGER: New and Selected Poems, 1976-2006, by Ellen Bryant Voigt. (Norton, $15.95.) Voigt has been a serious inside presence in the literary world for decades. ''Messenger,'' which was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize, is a generous and thought-out gathering of her work, which takes on the world from a fixed rural place in the Horatian tradition. 
 THE DEVIL IN THE KITCHEN: Sex, Pain, Madness, and the Making of a Great Chef, by Marco Pierre White with James Steen. (Bloomsbury, $15.99.) Having retired in 1999 (at 38), White, the original bad-boy British chef, has written a memoir of growing up poor in Leeds and discovering his culinary gift. Our reviewer, David Kamp, called this a ''moving, unaffected, delightfully honest book.'' 
 THE FRAGILE EDGE: Diving and Other Adventures in the South Pacific, by Julia Whitty. (Houghton Mifflin, $14.95.) Whitty's mission is to ''comprehend and then translate the otherworldly marvels under the surface into the alien world topside,'' and she's done that both as a veteran oceanic documentary writer and producer and in these pages. Exploring the South Pacific's fertile atolls, she goes on the ''underwater equivalent of an African big-game safari,'' but her real passion is for coral reefs, the ''powerful arbiters of life both in the sea and on the land.'' 
 IN THE WOODS, by Tana French. (Penguin, $14.) A Dublin detective investigates the homicide of a 12-year-old girl that is somehow linked to the disappearance of three children who were playing in the same wooded area 20 years earlier. In the Book Review, Marilyn Stasio noted the ''lyrical ferocity'' of French's writing. In another recent psychological thriller, SILENCE, by Thomas Perry (Harvest/Harcourt, $14), a private eye searches for a restaurant owner who is in hiding, while a team of contract killers also try to find her. With this novel, Perry is ''at the top of his cat-and-mouse game,'' Stasio wrote. 
 INGLORIOUS, by Joanna Kavenna. (Picador, $15.) A successful London journalist who is mourning her mother's death suddenly quits her job, then finds herself homeless when her lover leaves. Staying with friends, unable to find work, she makes endless lists in a search for meaning in this elegantly written novel. 
 THE LOSS OF LEON MEED, by Josh Emmons. (Scribner, $15.) Emmons's first novel, set in Eureka, Calif., follows 10 residents who bump into one another unawares. Turning up in all their lives is Leon Meed, a melancholy ''older man'' who is first glimpsed bobbing in the ocean, but later appears at a play rehearsal, at a library, in a woman's shower. Writing in The Times, Janet Maslin praised the book's ''well-developed screwball quality.'' 
 THE NATURE OF MONSTERS, by Clare Clark. (Harvest/Harcourt, $14.) A demented apothecary experiments on pregnant women in 18th-century London in this imaginative second novel. Clark combines historical accuracy, vivid language and a strong plot to produce an absorbing narrative. 
 NO ONE BELONGS HERE MORE THAN YOU: Stories, by Miranda July. (Scribner, $14.) Several of these 16 stories about love, real and imagined, previously appeared in magazines like The New Yorker and The Paris Review. This is a first collection for July, a performance artist and the writer, director and star of the indie film ''Me and You and Everyone We Know.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (88%); LITERATURE (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (67%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (50%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



223 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE FOOD CHAIN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1582 words

HEADLINE: Darfur Withers As Sudan Sells A Food Bonanza

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

DATELINE: ED DAMER, Sudan 

 BODY:
Even as it receives a billion pounds of free food from international donors, Sudan is growing and selling vast quantities of its own crops to other countries, capitalizing on high global food prices at a time when millions of people in its war-riddled region of Darfur barely have enough to eat. 
 Here in the bone-dry desert, where desiccated donkey carcasses line the road, huge green fields suddenly materialize. Beans. Wheat. Sorghum. Melons. Peanuts. Pumpkins. Eggplant. It is all grown here, part of an ambitious government plan for Sudanese self-sufficiency, creating giant mechanized farms that rise out of the sand like mirages.
 But how much of this bonanza is getting back to the hungry Sudanese, like the 2.5 million driven into camps in Darfur? And why is a country that exports so many of its own crops receiving more free food than anywhere else in the world, especially when the Sudanese government is blamed for creating the crisis in the first place? 
 African countries that rely on donated food usually cannot produce enough on their own. Somalia, Ethiopia, Niger and Zimbabwe are all recent examples of how war, natural disasters or gross mismanagement can cut deep into food production, pushing millions of people to the brink of starvation. 
 But here in Sudan, there seem to be plenty of calories to go around. The country is already growing wheat for Saudi Arabia, sorghum for camels in the United Arab Emirates and vine-ripened tomatoes for the Jordanian Army. Now the government is plowing $5 billion into new agribusiness projects, many of them to produce food for export.
 Take sorghum, a staple of the Sudanese diet, typically eaten in flat, spongy bread. Last year, the United States government, as part of its response to the emergency in Darfur, shipped in 283,000 tons of sorghum, at high cost, from as far away as Houston. Oddly enough, that is about the same amount that Sudan exported, according to United Nations officials. This year, Sudanese companies, including many that are linked to the government in Khartoum, are on track to ship out twice that amount, even as the United Nations is being forced to cut rations to Darfur. 
 Eric Reeves, a professor at Smith College and an outspoken activist who has written frequently on the Darfur crisis, called this anomaly ''one of the least reported and most scandalous features of the Khartoum regime's domestic policies.'' It was emblematic, he said, of the Sudanese government's strategy to manipulate ''national wealth and power to further enrich itself and its cronies, while the marginalized regions of the country suffer from terrible poverty.'' 
 Aid groups gave up long ago on the Sudanese government helping the people of Darfur. After all, the nation's president, Omar Hassan al-Bashir, has been accused of masterminding genocide in Darfur. United Nations officials have said that if they do not bring food into the region, the government surely will not.
 That leaves the United Nations and Western aid groups feeding more than three million Darfurians. But the lifeline is fraying. Security is deteriorating. Aid trucks are getting hijacked nearly every day and deliveries are being made less and less frequently. The result: less food and soaring malnutrition rates, particularly among children.
 On top of this is the broader problem of trying to find affordable grains on the world market when prices are higher than they have been in decades. United Nations officials in Sudan say that the fact that they have to import some of the same commodities that Sudan not only produces but exports is a source of constant frustration. 
 ''Sudan could be self-sufficient,'' said Kenro Oshidari, the director of the United Nations World Food Program in Sudan. ''It does have the potential to be the breadbasket of Africa.''
 Sudanese officials say that is precisely their goal, and they deny that Sudanese agribusiness is being built at the expense of their own people. They reject accusations that they are neglecting far-flung areas like Darfur, much less waging a war of hunger and deprivation against them. 
 Instead, Sudanese officials say they are simply trying to build up their economy. They say they know what it is like to be vilified, having been squeezed by American sanctions for more than a decade. And it could get worse, with Mr. Bashir facing genocide charges at the International Criminal Court in connection with the massacres in Darfur.
 ''Sanctions are never far from our mind,'' said Al-Amin Dafa Allah, chairman of the National Assembly's agricultural committee. ''We're trying to minimize our reliance on the outside.''
 In fact, part of the reason relief agencies bring their own food into Sudan stems from the American policy of giving crops, not money, as foreign aid. 
 Many European countries, by contrast, just give the World Food Program cash, which can be used to buy food locally. Last year, the program bought 117,000 tons of Sudanese sorghum. United Nations officials said they would like to buy more, but they had had run-ins with Sudanese suppliers who could make more money with exports.
 ''We don't get discounts,'' said Emilia Casella, a spokeswoman for the World Food Program.
 Sudanese officials say they want to sell more crops to the United Nations, but lost in this discussion about buying and selling food is whether the Sudanese government should be donating food to its own needy people. 
 For now, Sudanese officials seem more interested in doing business with their new partners in the Middle East. Sudan is the largest country in Africa, nearly one million square miles. It has 208 million acres of arable land, with less than a quarter being cultivated. The Sudanese government is striking deals left and right with Arab countries just across the Red Sea: the Arab countries bring the money, the soil scientists and the $200,000 tractors. Sudan supplies the land.
 ''Our country is small and dry and mountainous,'' said Man Shuqwara, the Jordanian director of a Jordanian-run farm in northern Sudan that grows wheat, beans, potatoes, onions, tomatoes, oranges and bananas. ''By logic we would come to Sudan.''
 The same logic is attracting big money from Saudi Arabia. About an hour's drive north of the Jordanian farm, near the town of Ed Damer, is a huge new $200 million project to grow wheat in what now looks like a 10-mile-wide sandbox. Some of the wheat will stay in Sudan; some will be shipped to Saudi Arabia. A fleet of new John Deere tractors is already lined up for harvest time. A worker on the farm whispered that the tractors had been sneaked into Sudan through Saudi Arabia because of the American trade sanctions.
 Sudan's overall economic strategy is to diversify from oil, which it began exporting in 1999, and to focus more closely on the traditional engine of the country's economy -- agriculture. More than 80 percent of the work force is engaged in raising animals or farming of one sort or another.
 ''Our sesame oil is the best in the world,'' said Mr. Al-Amin, the agriculture committee chairman. ''And it's organic!'' 
 But make no mistake about it: much of Sudan is still a blazing hot, cruelly barren landscape, with specterlike figures in impossibly white gowns tramping through the dust.
 But at certain nodes, especially along the Nile River, this country is as green and lush as Florida. It boasts three crucial ingredients for growing things: land, labor and, most important, water.
 The Nile and its tributaries flow more than 2,000 miles across Sudan, bringing the silt-rich water right to the fields. The British colonial government was the first to capitalize on this in a big way, building a dam in 1925 on the Blue Nile, one of the two main sources of the Nile River, and a network of canals. Today, that project, called the Gezira Scheme, has thousands of miles of canals irrigating nearly 2.5 million acres of farms. The genius is that it is all done by gravity, which means water flows from the dam through capillaries of canals to seedlings in the field, all without using a watt of electricity.
 ''We have water 24-7,'' said Siddig Eissa Ahmed, the director of the Gezira Scheme, which is government-run, like much of Sudanese agribusiness.
 The dark side of all this development is displacement. The conflict in Darfur, in western Sudan, is largely about grazing rights and watering holes -- and the government's brutal counterinsurgency policies in response to an armed rebellion. So far, the most ambitious agricultural projects have avoided the area altogether, and instead are concentrated in the central and northern parts of the country. 
 Even so, development in Sudan often means uprooting other rural subsistence farmers for large-scale commercial projects, said Alex de Waal, a Sudan scholar at the Social Science Research Council in New York.
 ''Smallholder food production goes down, commercial food production goes up, and food relief serves as a subsidy to this transformation, keeping the displaced alive,'' he said.
 The Sudanese government is widely blamed for running many of the displaced people in Darfur off their farms, making them reliant on handouts. Still, the government has been slow to feed them. 
 The last time the government gave the World Food Program any food for Darfur was in 2006. It was 22,000 tons of Sudanese-grown sorghum. It was a fraction of what the people needed, United Nations officials said, and some of the grain was rancid and infested with weevils.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Farmers plowed a field in Gezira, south of Khartoum, Sudan. Although Sudan receives food aid, it exports many of its crops. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOAO SILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (91%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (89%); FOOD PRICES (78%); WHEAT FARMING (78%); STARVATION (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); NATURAL DISASTERS (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); GENOCIDE (61%); DESERTS (56%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (91%) SUDAN (99%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); SOMALIA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); AFRICA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NIGER (79%); JORDAN (69%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



224 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; PEBBLE BEACH 2008; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: A Week Of Classics

BYLINE: By ROB SASS

 BODY:
SINCE 1950, the Monterey Peninsula of California has provided the setting for a series of events that are the collector-car equivalent of the Cannes Film Festival, the New York Mercantile Exchange and the Westminster Kennel Club dog show combined. 
 For one week each August, the ordinarily low-key communities of Monterey, Carmel and Pebble Beach become the places to ogle droves of impossibly well-turned-out cars (and equally polished people), and to place bids on some of the finest vintage automobiles available. The only thing missing (so far, at least) is the obligatory Christopher Guest mockumentary film. 
 The hook is, of course, the Pebble Beach Concours d'Elegance, which this year will pay special attention to Lancias and Lamborghinis as well as a trove of show cars from the Motorama traveling exhibition that General Motors used to showcase its design studies in 1949-60. Among the Lancias will be a 1908 12-horsepower Alpha, believed to be one of the oldest surviving examples of the marque, and a 1934 Packard owned by a former San Francisco police officer that was last entered in the Pebble Beach concours in 1955. 
 The events that have sprung up around the Pebble Beach celebration also include the Concorso Italiano show, the Quail motor sports exhibition and the Monterey Historic Races -- and a series of auctions whose results tend to establish benchmark values for a wide variety of classics. 
 Market trends have been something of a question since last January, after the whirlwind of auctions around Phoenix. Those sales demonstrated that despite the subprime mortgage collapse and a looming economic downturn, collectors at the top of the food chain were not shy about buying the finest and rarest cars available. For that, dealers and auction houses breathed a sigh of relief. 
 At the time, Barrett-Jackson of Scottsdale, Ariz., and RM Auctions of Blenheim, Ontario, seemed a study in contrasting approaches: with Barrett-Jackson catering to the mass market and RM to a higher-end clientele, the two company's sales had a new-money-versus-old-money feeling. Overall sale numbers were down slightly from 2007 for both companies, but in the all-important average sale price for each car, RM was up considerably ($303,698 in 2008, as compared with $281,838 in 2007) and Barrett-Jackson was down ($74,428 in '08, compared with $87,102 in 2007). 
 So while it seems clear that the top of the market continues to climb, the status of the bottom to the middle of the market (cars priced below $100,000) is less certain. Ahead of the Monterey auctions, dealers are speculating that less expensive American cars will be a tougher sell than European sports cars simply because there is not an international market flush with euros for big, thirsty American cars of the 1950s and 1960s. 
 Among American buyers and sellers, Charles Kuhn, a classic car dealer in Gurnee, Ill., sees a bit of stagnation in the lower end of the market -- because, he says, sellers have not been willing to accept that the market has adjusted somewhat. ''Sellers are stuck at the 2006 price levels, while at the same time buyers are looking for a bargain,'' Mr. Kuhn said in a telephone interview. 
 Ian Kelleher, managing director of RM Auctions, has noticed that buyers of less expensive cars have become more discerning and that impulse purchases are perhaps down. But, he said, ''Great cars with a great history are still in demand at any price point.'' 
 Cars meeting that description will surely be available to test that theory. Among the closely watched cars in the auctions will be the 1958 Chrysler Diablo design study, styled by Virgil Exner and built by Ghia in Italy; a 1959 Ferrari 250 GT California Spider; and the 1960 Jaguar E2A racecar (and precursor of the E-Type sports car) that is expected to bring bids of more than $7 million.
 But the auctions are more than just a millionaire's playground. Below is a selection of desirable classics, all expected to sell for less than $100,000, that will be offered in various auctions over the course of the next week.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: REVISIT: 1934 Packard V-12 Convertible Victoria, last entered in 1955. Below, 1908 Lancia Alpha.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PACKARD COURTESY OF CRAIG LYNCH
 LANCIA COURTESY OF CORRADO LOPRESTO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); FILM (78%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); TRENDS (71%); EXHIBITIONS (68%); SPORTS CARS (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%); SUBPRIME LENDING (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



225 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; WEEKEND IN NEW YORK SOUVENIR GIFT SHOPPING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: Subway Dog Collar or Skyline Butter Dish?

BYLINE: By SETH KUGEL

 BODY:
IT'S hard to remember exactly when, but at some point in history a Statue of Liberty foam hat, an Empire State Building snow globe and a MoMA poster of Monet's ''Water Lilies'' made for perfectly adequate gifts to bring back from the Big Apple. These days, though, gift recipients have grown sophisticated, and no traveler wants to be labeled ''the guy who went to New York and all his friends got were these lousy six-for-$10 'I Love N.Y.' T-shirts.''
 Instead, gifts must be creative, useful or at least purposefully ironic. They should clearly be from New York, but not say ''New York,'' nor involve big or even medium-sized apples. Your neighbor, the transplanted New Yorker who didn't quite make the gift list, should be envious, not mocking.
 Government-related gifts seem to have caught on: you can get manhole cover doormats, sanitation worker hats, and almost anything N.Y.P.D. But the Transit Authority may have the most advanced gift sensibilities; its licensed gear, ranging from F-train T-shirts to subway token cuff links, is everywhere nontacky gifts are sold. 
 The mother lode is in the Transit Museum in Brooklyn Heights or the more convenient Transit Museum annex in Grand Central Terminal. It's a one-stop-shop for MetroCard beach towels, wooden toy subway cars, a subway map umbrella, even subway-line-specific dog collars decorated with the circular symbols of the trains. The Eighth Avenue line collar is perfect for dogs named ACE, though the M.T.A.'s designers did miss a chance by not combining the G train and the R train to create a GRRR collar, perfect for poodles trying to appear more intimidating.
 Uniquely New York food or drink, of course, is a great idea if well thought out: street-vendor hot dogs and 2nd Avenue Deli chopped liver don't travel too well. But few will not love a dozen H & H bagels you can pick up hot on your way to the airport, 24 hours a day. Pack them in your checked luggage; if you carry them on, you may find your bagels have shifted in the overhead compartment during the flight -- into your fellow passengers' mouths. You also could do worse than picking out a bottle or two of New York State wine, the specialty of Vintage New York in SoHo.
 Recovering souvenir-plate collectors may want to check out the New York-centric dishware from Fishs Eddy on Broadway in Chelsea. The 212 Skyline line is the classic, with a labeled Manhattan skyline around the circumference of the plates and bowls. There are also Central Park, Five Borough and square-plated Brooklyn lines available; items like salt and pepper shakers and butter dishes are more portable gifts.
 Brooklyn is a good decade into its 15 minutes of fame, so the messenger bags from Brooklyn Industries, an upscale chain of clothing stores with a Brooklyn rooftop logo, is a good choice. Their T-shirts are also cool, if you can stand the $32 price tag: there are Brooklyn Bridge images and Brooklyn spelled out in sign language. But the best, for those looking to be obscure, just reads BQE, as in Brooklyn-Queens Expressway, the much-maligned, always-under-construction highway linking the two boroughs. 
 For less than half the price (and, for better or worse, less than half the hipness), you can pick up the T-shirts and bags from the Strand Bookstore near Union Square. Its ''18 miles of books'' slogan is very New York (though perhaps not as New York as the fact that a Spanish version is available, ''18 millas de libros''). The T-shirts come in all sizes and what was once just an iconic tote bag is now available in all kinds of varieties. By the way, they also have sharply discounted New York City books, including gift-ready classics like the Pulitzer Prize-winning ''Gotham: a History of New York City to 1898,'' and ''The Encyclopedia of New York City.''
 Should there be lovers of strawberry Charleston Chews or bubble gum cigarettes on your list, Economy Candy is a good place to shop. To add the New York element, add a Yankees giant Pez dispenser ($18) or an Economy Candy T-shirt, featuring the logo of a kid with a tremendous cowlick presiding over a colorful smorgasbord of treats ($10).
 Those who don't believe in the division of church and T-shirt may consider a visit to the Church of St. Mary the Virgin's gift shop near Times Square. They sell ''Smokey Mary'' T-shirts in their gift shop on Sundays, but no cheating: the store doesn't open until Mass is over. The church's heavy use of incense explains the nickname, but not the flaming censer logo (ask for the story). A small bottle of the incense itself, made especially for the church by a parishioner who now lives in Arizona, is $10, and they've recently begun stocking what may be the worst possible New York City gift in history, a bound 320-page photocopy of Kyle Babin's 2008 doctoral thesis about music at St. Mary's from 1868 to the present. 
 But perhaps the best spot around for great New York gift-shopping is the Lower East Side Tenement Museum. They have a bit of everything, including some subway stuff, Fishs Eddy skyline butter dishes, unusual notecards, New York-based kids' books, New York City restaurant cookbooks, and perhaps the only wrapping paper in the world worth its price. For just $4.95 you get wrapping paper printed with an old city map that could just as easily be a poster. Wrap something in that, and your gift doesn't even have to be that great after all. (Idea: a liter of genuine New York City tap water, drawn from your hotel sink into a delabeled Poland Springs bottle.)
 NO APPLES, BIG OR OTHERWISE
 New York City Transit Museum Gallery Annex and Store, Grand Central Terminal, (212) 878-0106; www.transitmuseumstore.com.
 H & H Bagels, 639 West 46th Street, (212) 595-8000, or 2239 Broadway at 80th Street, (212) 595-8003; www.hhbagels.com.
 Vintage New York, 482 Broome Street, (212) 226-9463, or 2492 Broadway at 93rd Street, (212) 721-9999; www.vintagenewyork.com.
 Fishs Eddy, 889 Broadway and 19th Street, (212) 420-9020; www.fishseddy.com.
 Brooklyn Industries, 161 Eighth Avenue at 18th Street, (212) 206-0477, www.brooklynindustries.com. 
 Strand Bookstore, 828 Broadway at 12th Street, (212) 473-1452; www.strandbooks.com.
 Economy Candy, 108 Rivington Street, (800) 352-4544; www.economycandy.com.
 Church of St. Mary the Virgin, 145 West 46th Street, (212) 869-5830; www.stmvirgin.org
 Lower East Side Tenement Museum Shop, 108 Orchard Street, (212) 431-0233; www.tenement.org.

GRAPHIC: Ring watches at the Lower East Side Tenement Museum. Other gifts include books, subway items and wrapping paper designed as an old city map. ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (87%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (87%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); TRAINS (76%); TOYS & GAMES (66%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



226 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 257 words

HEADLINE: Patricia Rivera, Brian Toolan

 BODY:
Dr. Patricia Joan Rivera, the daughter of Caridad Rivera of Manhattan and the late Renato Rivera, was married on Friday in Watch Hill, R.I., to Brian Henry Toolan, a son of Barbara Ann Adamson Toolan and Henry G. Toolan of Saddle River, N.J. Msgr. Michael J. Phillips, a Roman Catholic priest and a cousin of the bridegroom, officiated at the Watch Hill Chapel, with the Rev. Dr. Samuel Adamson, a Presbyterian minister and an uncle of the bridegroom, assisting. 
 Dr. Rivera Toolan, 35, is a specialist in emergency medicine at Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center in the Bronx. She graduated from the University of California, Berkeley, and received a master's degree in public health from Tulane. She holds a master's in medical science and a medical degree from Boston University. 
 Her father was a supervisor of operations at Donovan Data Systems, a provider of systems and software in Manhattan. Her mother, now retired, was an independent accountant in Manhattan. 
 Mr. Toolan, 36, is a managing director at Crystal Ridge Partners, an investment firm in Princeton, N.J.; he specializes in buyouts and growth capital. He graduated magna cum laude from the University of Pennsylvania with two bachelor's degrees, in economics and history. He received an M.B.A. from Harvard. 
 His mother is a trustee of the West Bergen Mental Healthcare Foundation in Ridgewood, N.J. His father retired as the chief executive of Creative Homeowner, a publisher of do-it-yourself home improvement and craft books that he founded in Upper Saddle River, N.J.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANK CESARIO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); RELIGION (72%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (69%); DO IT YOURSELF HOME IMPROVEMENT (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (57%)

COMPANY: MEDIAOCEAN (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (57%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (72%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



227 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: Rays' Maddon Puts Pieces Together

BYLINE: By ALAN SCHWARZ

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. 

 BODY:
That bike. Of all the items that teammates would watch Joe Maddon lug on trips with the Angels -- books without pictures, wine magazines, an iPod pulsing with Springsteen and Green Day and Pavarotti -- none made them smile and shake their heads more than his beloved mountain bike.
 The Angels' bench coach from 1996 to 2005, Maddon would, before most every trip, take it apart -- wheels, chains, from seat to nuts -- so that he could pop it on the plane. Upon arrival, he would lay the pieces out on his hotel room floor and, quite happily, put it all back together again. Then bike to the ballpark.
 ''I can still see him doing that,'' Angels Manager Mike Scioscia said. ''He just loved that bicycle.'' 
 Maddon has retired his wrenches because he now can afford to rent bikes on the road for his 80 or so miles of weekly riding. But he still loves to put machines together. Perhaps you have heard of one -- the first-place Tampa Bay Rays.
 The Rays' third-year manager, known as one of baseball's more purely intelligent men in uniform, Maddon has helped transform what had been a laughably disjointed bunch of rookies and castoffs into a vibrant collection of up-and-arriving talent that has made the Boston Red Sox and the Yankees look brittle and worn.
 A 14-7 record since the All-Star break left the Rays with a three-and-a-half-game lead over Boston and a six-and-a-half-game cushion over the Yankees entering Saturday.
 The Rays never won more than 70 games in their first 10 seasons of existence and went 66-96 last year, the worst record in the American League. They had 69 wins through Friday, on pace for 97. 
 Fans who once stayed away from Tropicana Field, a dreary dome that looks less like a ballpark than a sagging souffle, have been roused to attend. More than 27,000 fans came for an afternoon game last Wednesday, and were rewarded with a 10-7, bottom-of-the-ninth thriller over Cleveland that almost raised the roof to almost level.
 The Rays, filled with young talent like third baseman Evan Longoria, center fielder B. J. Upton and a rotation manned by Scott Kazmir, James Shields and Matt Garza, are led by a 54-year-old manager who players insist is younger than they are. Sure, Maddon has adorned the clubhouse with inspirational quotes from the likes of Albert Camus. (''I don't think he ever played here,'' Upton said.) But players know they have the only manager in the big leagues with a cooler music collection than theirs, and he infuses them with the same free spirit he has carried through three decades in professional baseball.
 ''He's very calm, quiet and trusting,'' said Shields, 10-7 with a 3.65 earned run average. ''He allows us to police ourselves. Sometimes, you have a manager who yells at you every night, but he doesn't do that. He'll sit you down and talk to you and teach you.''
 A former economics major at Lafayette College and a briefly professional catcher, Maddon revels in looking at baseball through his own eyes. (And through his now-trademark, black-rimmed glasses that are less Harry Caray than Elvis Costello, he eagerly notes.) The man who never travels without a book does not always go by baseball's.
 True to his Angels roots, Maddon encourages his players to take extra bases aggressively -- even at the risk of making the first or third out at third, a longtime baseball no-no. ''It's a positive risk,'' Maddon said. ''I don't want my players afraid of making mistakes.''
 He encourages his players to steal -- the Rays led the majors with 116 stolen bases through Friday -- and eschews conservative moves like bunting runners over and issuing intentional walks, preferring to let players get the job done with as little managerial intervention as possible.
 ''He's a young team's manager,'' said Upton, obliquely comparing Maddon with his predecessor, the volatile and veteran-disposed Lou Piniella. ''He allows us to have fun.''
 Maddon conducts a somewhat bizarre hitting drill in which balls the size of plums are winged at batters from 33 feet and at an upward angle, to encourage hand quickness and discourage uppercuts. Beyond the drastic pull shift he deployed against David Ortiz of the Red Sox, Maddon also placed three infielders on the left side of the infield to defend against the Florida Marlins slugger Dan Uggla, a right-hander.
 ''He got a base hit to the right side, so people asked why then not move your second baseman back over,'' Maddon said. ''I want him to try to hit a ground ball to second base as opposed to trying to hit the ball 15 rows up in left field.''
 For a bright guy who understands numbers -- he was recruited by Ivy League universities like Princeton and Penn before taking a full ride to Lafayette -- Maddon chose an odd T-shirt slogan for this year, ''9=8''. He wanted not just to dismiss conventional thought but also emphasize that nine players playing nine innings could mean one of eight postseason berths. A quaint idea, Tampa Bay in the playoffs, but the young Rays jelled a year or two earlier than expected as the Red Sox and the Yankees aged.
 The Rays' October hopes were threatened by a seven-game losing streak heading into the All-Star break. Then, after a win in Kansas City in late July, Maddon lit into his team for breaking just about his only team rule: continuous effort. Several Rays players said the meeting was a sign both that their one-of-the-guys manager was no pushover, and that this postseason business was real.
 ''The message was, basically, we're in a position right now that's actually very special and needs to be treated with respect,'' said Maddon, whose team responded by winning three straight series. ''To think that this situation's going to come along on an annual basis, we're foolish to think that.''
 Maddon's lack of pretension owes to his roots in Hazleton, Pa., where his mother, Beanie, is still a waitress at the Third Base Luncheonette. He grew up the oldest of three children in a tiny apartment atop the business started by his Italian immigrant grandfather, C. Maddon & Sons Plumbing and Heating. (The family name was originally Maddoninni.) An excellent high school quarterback -- nicknamed Broad Street Joe after a main Hazleton thoroughfare -- Maddon fiddled with the idea of running his own restaurant before pursuing sports at Lafayette.
 Maddon still indulges his inner restaurateur every December by serving his renowned spaghetti and meatballs (and pirogis -- he's part Polish) at homeless shelters. He scouts cabernets as carefully as he does opposing relievers, often opting for a trusty 2002 Silver Oak.
 That was a fine year, indeed -- Maddon helped the Angels win their only World Series after serving the organization in various minor league and major league coaching capacities for almost a quarter-century. Maddon played an integral role in identifying which young players had the skill and verve to grow into a championship club.
 ''I'm not surprised at what's happening over there, because Joe has done this before,'' Scioscia said of Maddon's work with Tampa Bay. ''Even though he wasn't managing with us, he was always an organizational builder.''
 Tampa Bay's road to this year's playoffs is by no means downhill. The Rays, who just started a 10-game trip out west, then play series against the first-place Angels and the Chicago White Sox -- and open September with 12 of 15 games against the Yankees and the Red Sox. Furthermore, Maddon's lineup, which could have been bolstered by trading for a right-handed batter like Jason Bay or Manny Ramirez, is still below average.
 As he did with his mountain bike in Anaheim, Maddon will continue to piece his team together from what to others may appear to be disparate parts. The analogy is less strained than it sounds. Milwaukee Brewers Manager Ned Yost, whose young-and-jelling team is the National League's reflection of the Rays, builds computers from scratch in his spare time.
 Although many of the game's most intelligent managers love to tinker, Maddon prefers to put his tools down and let those of his Rays take over. ''I'm so not into controlling this,'' Maddon said with a smile.
 Hands off the handlebars, he's enjoying the ride.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Joe Maddon's unconventional approach has the Rays in first place. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AL BEHRMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 The Rays' roster is filled with young talent like third baseman Evan Longoria, left, and center fielder B. J. Upton. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE NESIUS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); ATHLETES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (88%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (69%); TAMPA, FL, USA (55%) FLORIDA, USA (70%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



228 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; NEXT STOP KOSICE, SLOVAKIA; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: Once Soviet Gray, Now a Colorful Mix

BYLINE: By LIONEL BEEHNER

 BODY:
DOWN a dingy alleyway lined with beer gardens and hookah bars, an Afro-jazz funk band took the small stage at the Piano Cafe, a smoke-filled lounge in the center of Kosice. 
 It was not exactly what a first-time visitor expected to find in a Central European town of steel factories and Soviet-era apartment blocs. But as the beat of African samba filled the cramped cafe, an arty crowd of young Slovaks in metal-rock T-shirts and bookish glasses sat in rapt attention, slow-sipping their Mojitos and ignoring the techno music downstairs. 
 For decades, Kosice, a city of 250,000 in eastern Slovakia, was considered an industrial backwater -- if it was considered at all. (Bratislava, Slovakia's capital, got the attention.) But in the past several years, a beautifully refurbished center has emerged from behind Kosice's ugly veneer of gray concrete and steel, drawing artists, entrepreneurs and a growing number of tourists. 
 Hlavni Namesti, the city's newly renovated Main Square, now gleams with intimate art galleries, white-tablecloth restaurants and upscale hotels equipped with wine cellars. Dormant mines and military barracks have been refashioned into studios for underground artists. And a hilltop collection of unused warehouses is being converted into a site for open-air festivals, electronica parties and laser shows. 
 ''It's really booming,'' said Michael Hladky, 27, a local architect who specializes in new urbanism. ''It's no longer the case where public art gets decided by old guys from Communist times. A younger generation is coming in.'' 
 The transformation was no accident. With its steel factories slowing down, Kosice, a former Soviet Bloc city, decided in the late 1990s to restore the town's cobblestone center. The idea was to stimulate culture and the arts. 
 ''We want to be an incubator for young artists,'' said Marek Kolarcik, project manager of Kosice 2013, a public task force lobbying to have the city named a European Capital of Culture. ''We're lagging behind Bratislava, but in two years' time, the boom will come.'' 
 Its historic diversity may help. Thanks to its location along the border of the Hapsburg Empire, Kosice has Slavic as well as Magyar roots. The region's only Roma theater can be found there, and bookstores carry both Slovak and Hungarian magazines. Locals also like to point out that in 1968, when Moscow sent tanks into the country to suppress the reform movement known as the Prague Spring, some of the Czechoslovak intelligentsia were hauled off to work in Kosice's steel mills, laying the foundation for the city's renaissance in culture. 
 On an intermittently soggy afternoon last fall, the beer gardens along the main square were emptied of their regulars -- a mix of university students and steel workers -- but the sidewalks swelled with the rush of passersby. A pair of elderly women fed pigeons in the park as faint elevator music could be heard from a nearby singing fountain. 
 A fog lifted over the towering spires of St. Elizabeth's Cathedral. Begun in the late 14th century, it is Slovakia's largest church, and its gargoyle-studded exterior leaves one wondering if Quasimodo is hunched over its Gothic entranceway. The top of the cathedral's clock tower offers panoramic views, and the crypt below lets you mingle among the tombs. 
 Next to the church stands the medieval bell tower of St. Urban. Its vaulted interior has been turned into a tacky wax museum devoted to hometown heroes like Andrej Varchola -- otherwise known as Andy Warhol -- who has familial roots in the region. His wax likeness, complete with the signature shock of white hair, stands next to a general and other heroes from Slovak history. 
 Indeed, Kosice seems to have embraced its quirkier side. Filmmakers and media types descend on the town each June to hand out a documentary film award called the Golden Beggar, which depicts a vagrant tipping his hat. 
 Nor are locals above showing off their pro-Americanism. Slovak-style spaghetti is served at the Bill Restaurant, named after -- who else? -- Bill Clinton, but a waitress said he never stepped foot in the place. The entrance features a cartoon cutout of the former president sporting a wide grin, and the cavernous interior features kitschy American memorabilia splashed across its orange walls, including, of course, a saxophone. 
 But Kosice's hammer-and-sickle past is never far away. Lurking around the corner is Krcma Nositel Radu Prace, a dive bar straight out of the cold war. A group of blue-collar men cluster around tables, singing what sounds like Soviet songs and washing down cheap Topvar beer, while portraits of Lenin and Marx peer from the peeling walls and an angry-looking babushka tends bar. ''This is a place for the unemployed, not tourists,'' said Milan Seliga, a truck driver, before downing a shot of vodka.
 Attempts to shed Kosice's provincial image have not come easily. Part of the problem may be Slovakia's reputation -- not entirely unfounded -- for poor service and lack of foreign language skills, a holdover from its Communist days. ''They go to hotel school for four years but learn to smile on the fifth,'' said Richard Gibbs, a retired teacher from England, who was visiting the High Tatras, the mountains dividing Slovakia and Poland. 
 But walk past the Piano Cafe down an unmarked alleyway known as club row, and you might encounter a gregarious man with a mullet haircut tending bar at Diesel, a kitschy bar, and teenagers in hoodies eager to chat up out-of-towners between puffs of Marlboros. 
 That bonhomie is perhaps most clearly felt by the city's artists. ''This place is what I imagine New York was like back in the 30s,'' said James Austin Murray, 38, a painter from New York City who visits Kosice occasionally. ''There is this sincerity that comes with the lack of ambition toward money.'' 
 NEXT CAPITAL OF CULTURE
 HOW TO GET THERE 
 Flights from the United States require a stopover, in Vienna or Prague. A recent online search found a Czech Airlines flight from Kennedy Airport, with a plane change in Prague, starting at $1,176 for travel this month. Kosice is about five hours by bus or train from Bratislava or Budapest.
 WHERE TO STAY
 The 32-unit Hotel Bristol (Orlia 3; 421-55-729-0077; www.hotelbristol.sk) offers cathedral views and a Roman spa, with singles starting at 3,300 Slovak korunas, $171 at 19.65 korunas to the dollar. 
 The Hotel Bankov (Dolny Bankov; 421-55-632-45-22; www.hotelbankov.sk) has some of the most lavish quarters in town, with park views on its summer terrace and a Finnish sauna. Rooms start at 2,950 korunas. 
 WHERE TO EAT
 For traditional Slovak fare, head to Twelve Apostles (Kovacska 51; 421-55-729-5105), where diners sit around wooden pews in a tabernacle-like room.The menu includes chicken breast with cherry (385 korunas) and steamed salmon with grilled vegetables (450 korunas). 
 Bill Restaurant (Hlavna 117; 421-9-07-970-863) serves American-inspired fare.
 Another popular hangout is Diesel Pub (Hlavna 92; 421-55-622-2186), which offers greasy but good food. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ABOVE: The singing fountain between the State Theater and St. Elizabeth's Cathedral. TOP A nighttime scene at the Diesel Pub.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TAMAS DEZSO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: NEXT CAPITAL OF CULTURE?: HOW TO GET THERE Flights from the United States require a stopover, in Vienna or Prague. A recent online search found a Czech Airlines flight from Kennedy Airport, with a plane change in Prague, starting at $1,176 for travel this month. Kosice is about five hours by bus or train from Bratislava or Budapest. WHERE TO STAY The 32-unit Hotel Bristol (Orlia 3
421-55-729-0077
www.hotelbristol.sk) offers cathedral views and a Roman spa, with singles starting at 3,300 Slovak korunas, $171 at 19.65 korunas to the dollar. The Hotel Bankov (Dolny Bankov
421-55-632-45-22
www.hotelbankov.sk) has some of the most lavish quarters in town, with park views on its summer terrace and a Finnish sauna. Rooms start at 2,950 korunas. WHERE TO EAT For traditional Slovak fare, head to Twelve Apostles (Kovacska 51
421-55-729-5105), where diners sit around wooden pews in a tabernacle-like room.The menu includes chicken breast with cherry (385 korunas) and steamed salmon with grilled vegetables (450 korunas). Bill Restaurant (Hlavna 117
421-9-07-970-863) serves American-inspired fare. Another popular hangout is Diesel Pub (Hlavna 92
421-55-622-2186), which offers greasy but good food.
 MAP Map details area of Kosice. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); MUSIC (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); CITIES (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (73%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (68%); STEEL ROLLING & DRAWING (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (91%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) SLOVAKIA (96%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); HUNGARY (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); FINLAND (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



229 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; GENERATIONS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1505 words

HEADLINE: Giving Our Children a Gas Crisis Of Their Very Own

BYLINE: By GERRI HIRSHEY

 BODY:
MATERNAL antennas go up when a slapped-together sandwich elicits lavish praise: ''Mom, this turkey and roast beef rocks. So do the ciabatta rolls. Let's get more.''
 Since when does our 18-year-old son, Sam, college bound and fancy free for the summer, praise deli meat -- bought at the same supermarket where he works? Since gas cost more than $4 a gallon and a quick Quiznos run could sear his thin-skinned wallet. In this strange new teenage reality, meals at home have acquired a new allure. 
 Sadly, the predictable rise in summer gas prices has coincided with an unpopular parental edict: Now that vacation is in full swing and Sam no longer ferries himself and his sister to school, his use of the second car requires him to buy its fuel. Many of his friends are in the same situation. Sitting around our family room, they kvetch like penny-pinching pensioners and text one another the latest intelligence on the cheapest service stations around. They even talk physics: ''Gas up early in the day, before the heat expands it.'' 
 Here in southwestern Connecticut, teenage drivers in our semi-rural no-horse town (''boring, boring, bo-ring!'') have been feeling the pinch for some months now, since reaching civilization -- in the form of movies, the beach, pizza and burger joints -- adds an average 10- to 14-mile round trip to the price of amusement. 
 Our boy, who must also budget for the exigencies of a steady girlfriend, has beefed up his work hours since graduation. But his long-awaited raise at the market was only two bits, up to $8.75 an hour. Gloomily, he concluded: ''An hour of chasing carts and working the register is not even two gallons of gas. I hate this!''
 So do we all -- especially when he wheedles for use of the Mom car and its gas. His father and I sympathize with this nasty summer surprise, but we're quietly glad for its timely window on what's ahead. The class of '08, having survived one of the most bruising college admissions seasons ever, will face an even tougher real world four years hence. Though Barbara Ehrenreich's best-selling book on the ordeals of low-wage American workers, ''Nickel and Dimed,'' was required summer reading in high school, Sam grudgingly admits that he's privy to a more affecting set of economic indicators when he punches the time clock. 
 Some of his co-workers have lost their homes in foreclosure; others have lost their cars. One young man parks his car at a different pal's home every night -- just a step ahead of the repo man. There are more and more employee scooters and bikes in the market parking lot. With no bus service available, some adult workers with families have begun the grim calculations as to whether they can afford to keep jobs half an hour's distance from home. 
 Amid such break-room confidentials, our boy knows better than to gripe about the crimps in his cruising style. ''Looking at the big picture,'' he acknowledged, ''I don't have much to complain about.'' Nonetheless, as text messages buzz the pocket of his Bermudas, the nightly negotiations commence: ''Who's driving? No way, I drove last night!''
 As parents, we would be foolish, in this high summer of a boy's life, to try and convince him that this, um, correction in the way we consume fossil fuel is long overdue. Of course he knows that. After initial grousing, he has even seen the wisdom of the fabric totes customers now have him pack at the market in lieu of plastic bags. 
 I do think things are a bit harder on a kid whose third spoken word was ''car,'' a boy so preternaturally car crazy that he could identify a Buick Skylark by its grill at age 3. As he stood outside yelling ''Crown Victoria'' after a passing cab, our Upper West Side neighbors nicknamed him the Transportation Czar. He begged off ''Sesame Street'' for ''Knight Rider,'' and joyously pronounced Fairfield County ''the land of fancy cars'' when we moved him here at age 6. All along, he has counted on what he deemed an American birthright: four-wheeled mobility, and the mythic freedoms it has long conferred.
 His dad, who flipped Quarter Pounders to buy and feed his first car, a sickly green Comet, is sympathetic to the disappointments, but firm: Suck it up, kiddo. Trying to dull the sting with that tiresome adult bromide -- perspective -- I have repudiated and repented the dirty leaded excesses of my youth.
 We did indeed, as Springsteen sang, ''drive all night,'' with no particular place to go, and little consequence to the weekly allowance. My best friend, Ellen, piloted an Olds the size of Delaware that mainlined high-test. ''We were stupid, piggy, clueless,'' I confessed. To which Sam said dreamily, ''Tell me again about your cousin Richard's boss GTO.''
 CLEARLY, I can't unseat his entrenched Nascar Nation cosmology. To my shame, I resorted to scare tactics in the spirit of those unremitting TV news promos braying, ''More pain at the pump!'' We were on our way to ''Hancock,'' that high-octane Will Smith vehicle packed with enough wrecked cars and explosions to heat Anchorage, when I asked Sam, ''What if all of a sudden there was no gas?'' 
 I began to describe to him a serious Mad Max moment in America. Lots of us saw blind, ugly panic during the '70s gas crises -- long lines, fistfights, color-coded flags that signaled who might buy on which day, or the dreaded semaphore of the red flag: No Gas. It especially hit suburban folks where they lived -- behind the infernal wheel. And good neighbors went bad.
 I asked Sam, ''Did you know there was a suburban gas riot?''
 ''No way.''
 I had just read a commemorative newspaper article about it, written on the occasion of prices reaching $4 a gallon around Memorial Day. Back in 1979, prices had jumped to a buck a gallon, effectively tripling overnight. And the first ever suburban gas riot happened in the planned and perfectly pruned community of Levittown, Pa., in late June of that year. 
 Sam seemed a tad distracted by a passing Porsche Carrera, but I plunged on: The trouble started as a peaceable protest by long-haul truckers at Five Points, an intersection boasting several gas stations. Before it was over, 100 people were hurt, 200 arrested and a Shell station destroyed. State police officers were bused in as nice split-level dwellers drank, smoked, chanted ''More gas!'' and set tires aflame. 
 ''Seriously, Mom?''
 A full tank of high-test to anyone who can satisfactorily -- while including mini-histories of both Arab embargos, the Yom Kippur War and a half-century of lame United States energy policies -- answer Youth's next question: ''How'd this all happen, anyway?''
 The short answer would have to do. ''We did this,'' I told him. ''And we bequeath you this mess.'' To bring the larger picture into local focus, I reminded him that he hadn't even noticed when we donated his bike to charity. Bike riding to our town's school campus is actively discouraged because its entrance, on a busy road that feeds the Merritt Parkway, is dangerously aroar with adults in speeding S.U.V.'s -- on their cellphones. Given these perils, bike racks have disappeared all over America. Yet the school buses Sam and his sister sleepily climbed aboard for a decade were vastly underused. Everybody drove.
 THIS summer, older kids are dusting off their trusty dirt bikes and hitting the roads. In terms of fitness and economy, it's a great idea. But I had to nix a plan to pedal to a party at night. The merriment lay on the other sideof a state road without streetlights, where drivers routinely double the 35-m.p.h. speed limit. Even the desperate young revelers thought better of that plan and flipped a coin to see who would drive. 
 In daylight, and fully compliant with bike safety rules, Sam's friend Greg pedaled to the sleepy town center, where he was pulled over and bawled out by a local gendarme employing some Barney Fife mode of law enforcement. ''You can't be riding a bike in a parking lot!'' he barked.
 So what's a kid to do? Learn to improvise like the rest of us, I guess. And in the weeks before college departures make the driving issue moot (oh, happy day!), they can also stay home -- if only long enough to eat. Other moms I've talked to have also noticed an uptick in grocery bills as our bottomless-pit omnivores forage less amid the fast-food outposts. Sure, a gallon of milk or orange juice long ago topped the cost for the same amount of gas. But it burns clean. 
 Some of us smile when passing through a roomful of lanky, hairy-legged young mastodons bored out of their minds. We have children, albeit huge ones, back on our lawns. They have unearthed Frisbees and badminton sets. Though they know they're going to have to fix our mess some years hence, they cruise through these languid days with the buoyant optimism of youth. 
 The other night, as Sam leapt up at the sound of a horn in the driveway, he kissed his mother and tossed over his shoulder this upbeat summer mantra: ''Just when it seems you're stuck,'' he said, ''there's always some kid who will drive.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ED KOREN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); MEATS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); GAS STATIONS (76%); DRIVING AGE (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); EMPLOYEE TIMEKEEPING (74%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%); FORECLOSURE (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (50%); BESTSELLERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



230 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER AIRLINES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: Ahead: Fewer Flights, Fewer Bargains

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
LAST year, Nikki Frahm, operations manager at Carlson Wagonlit Travel in Forest Lake, Minn., arranged a February vacation for a family of four to Ixtapa, Mexico. They enjoyed the trip so much that last month, they called Ms. Frahm and asked her to sign them up again for the same vacation this year. 
 There's just one catch: the vacation may be the same, but the price will not. 
 Last year, the family paid less than $250 apiece to fly nonstop from Minneapolis to Ixtapa. This year, those same tickets are $504 a person, said Ms. Frahm, raising the cost of the family's vacation by more than $1,000. 
 As airlines cut flights and add fuel surcharges, ''this is the kind of thing we're seeing over and over again,'' said Ms. Frahm. ''Inventory is shrinking and the prices are escalating -- supply and demand.'' 
 Planning your winter vacation? Be prepared for some sticker shock. Holiday travel is never cheap, but as airlines cut capacity, the reduction of seats to winter hot spots like Florida, Hawaii and the Caribbean is creating a flight crunch and allowing carriers to charge a premium on popular routes. Cities with significant cuts are seeing some of the biggest price increases. 
 Overall airfares are up an average of 11 percent between November and February, according to data from Travelocity, but fares to Honolulu, which lost a big chunk of seats because of the shutdown of Aloha Airlines and ATA Airlines, are up 21.7 percent. 
 Parts of Florida will see double-digit drops in the number of scheduled seats from domestic flights in coming months, according to OAG Back Aviation Solutions. And ticket prices are rising accordingly, with late fall and winter fares up 20.1 percent to Tampa and St. Petersburg, where seats are expected to drop 11 and 84 percent in the fourth quarter. Meanwhile, fares have risen 14.9 percent to West Palm Beach and Fort Lauderdale, where seats are expected to drop 7 and 9 percent in the fourth quarter. 
 Starting Sept. 3, Continental will no longer fly to the Florida cities of Sarasota or Tallahassee. In addition, Milwaukee-based Midwest Airlines will eliminate service to Fort Lauderdale and Fort Myers on Sept. 8, and Delta has announced route cancellations between Orlando and cities like Las Vegas, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and Little Rock, Ark. JetBlue will discontinue service between Newburgh, N.Y., and West Palm Beach, Fla., after Sept. 2. 
 Orlando, where scheduled seats are expected to drop 15 percent in the fourth quarter, has seen a somewhat mild rise in fares -- up 4.9 percent between November and February, according to Travelocity.
 Why all the cuts to vacation spots? Leisure travel is often the first to soften in a weak economy as travelers curb their spending. ''With today's environment of low fares and high fuel, all airlines are having a difficult time justifying the economics of flying to leisure markets such as some destinations in Florida,'' Michael Brophy, a spokesman for Midwest, wrote in an e-mail. 
 The service cuts are redefining what travel professionals consider a bargain airfare. ''Any destination that isn't up by 10 percent is a good buy in this market,'' Amy Ziff, Travelocity's editor at large, wrote in an e-mail message. That includes parts of the Caribbean. 
 For example, while anticipating a significant reduction in flights to the Dominican Republic -- as much as a 40 percent drop in seats to Santiago alone in the fourth quarter -- ticket prices are up just 9.4 percent over a year ago. Another good bet is Puerto Rico, where fares to San Juan are up 10.1 percent. In an effort to curb more flight reductions, the island is offering airlines discounts of 15 to 45 percent on rent, landing fees and passenger fees if they can increase passenger traffic at Luis Munoz Marin International Airport during September, October and February. That seems to have helped Puerto Rican officials stave off flight cuts by American Airlines from Los Angeles and Baltimore.
 TO help offset rising airfares, some Caribbean resorts are offering deep discounts or money back to guests who book multiple nights. Anse Chastanet in St. Lucia, for example, is offering a $100 ''fuel deduction credit'' to guests who book in August and stay five nights or more by Oct. 31. Sandals Resorts in Jamaica, Antigua, St. Lucia and the Bahamas are offering travelers that book a minimum three-night stay by Sept. 2 up to $550 off per person for travel through Dec. 20 with its ''Fly Free Promotion.'' 
 Getting to traditional ski destinations like Lake Tahoe, Salt Lake City, Utah and Breckenridge, Colo., near Denver, will also be more expensive this year as flight schedules are reduced. Fares to Reno, Nev., the closest major gateway to Lake Tahoe, are up 39 percent, and scheduled seats are expected to be down 16 percent in the fourth quarter. Similarly, fares are up 20.9 percent to Salt Lake City where seats will drop 11 percent. Even Denver, which isn't expecting significant flight cuts, has seen fares rise 16.7 percent this winter compared to the same time last year. 
 Nevertheless, hub airports in cities like Denver and Salt Lake City could prove to be your best bet if weather causes flight cancellations or major delays, as tighter capacity will make getting on the next flight out even harder this year. From Denver, for example, you can drive to Vail in about two hours or Aspen in about three. 
 Good luck trying to find a flight to more intimate ski resorts like Telluride, Colo. Scheduled seats will drop 26 percent to Telluride in the fourth quarter, according to OAG Back Aviation. 
 To save on your winter vacation -- or at least widen your flight options -- consider destinations where airlines are adding capacity. Can't get a flight to Telluride? How about Crested Butte? This laid-back ski town is expected to get a slight increase in seats this year, with new Delta flights from Salt Lake City and Atlanta starting in December.
 Other ski destinations to see a boost in seats, or at least keep the ones they have, are Jackson Hole, Wyo.; Durango, Colo.; and Mammoth Lakes, Calif. Horizon Air, which begins daily nonstop flights to Mammoth Yosemite Airport from Los Angeles on Dec. 18., is offering introductory fares of $79 each way.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 31, 2008

 CORRECTION:
The Practical Traveler column on Aug. 10, about airlines that are cutting back on routes, misstated Continental Airlines' plans to alter service to Tallahassee, Fla. Starting Sept. 3, Continental will no longer fly from Houston to Tallahassee; it is not canceling all service to Tallahassee. (Continental Connection, operated by Gulfstream, will continue to offer service between Tallahassee and Tampa, Fla., and Tallahassee and West Palm Beach, Fla.) As the column correctly noted, Continental is ending service to Sarasota. 
The Practical Traveler column on Aug. 10, about airlines that are cutting back on routes, referred incorrectly to service to Telluride, Colo. Scheduled seats were expected to drop 26 percent to Telluride Regional Airport -- not to Telluride itself -- in the fourth quarter, according to OAG Back Aviation, an industry consulting firm that tracks such data. (The city also has service through Montrose Regional Airport.)

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LARS LEETARU) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); LEISURE TRAVEL (89%); AIR FARES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); FAMILY (89%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); FAMILY TRAVEL (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); TICKET SALES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%)

COMPANY: CARLSON WAGONLIT TRAVEL INC (91%); MIDWEST AIRLINES INC (84%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (56%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (91%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (91%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (90%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (73%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (55%); TAMPA, FL, USA (55%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (52%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (51%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (75%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



231 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1655 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: August 10, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 A COUPLE SEPARATED
 By International Politics
 Renate Kleinle, above, and Hong Ok-geun met in 1955 in what was then East Germany, when he was an exchange student. They married in 1960, but politics separated them the next year when North Korea recalled all 350 of its students in East Germany. They remained apart -- the couple's two children lived with her until this summer, when they had an unusual reunion. PAGE 13
 NEW YORK REPORT 
 PRIEST KNOWN AS LEADER 
 Now on Brink of Ruin
 Msgr. Wallace A. Harris has earned a reputation over a 36-year career for cool-handed crisis management and for forging connections. There had been talk of him as a potential bishop, even cardinal. Now he faces accusations of sexual abuse, and the shock has been felt not just among the members of his Harlem parish, but also among his fellow priests. PAGE 27
 SAYING NO TO DRILLING
 Councilman James F. Gennaro of Queens, a geologist and chairman of the council's environmental protection committee, provides a local take on the notion of drilling for natural gas upstate in the Marcellus Shale: ''This cannot happen. This would destroy the New York City watershed.'' Our Towns, by Peter Applebome. PAGE 27
 NATIONAL
 IN ARIZONA, LOOKING 
 At Spillover Benefits
 Kingman, Ariz., is about to join the Sun Belt's growth spurt. The mayor is quick to list the city's attributes: no forest fires, hurricanes, floods; gorgeous scenery; good schools; cheap land; low cost of living. And, not to be underestimated, another factor in the potential boom: the Las Vegas region is starting to run out of land and water to sustain its growth. PAGE 16
 HOSPITALS ACCUSED
 The tip came from a rescue mission employee who had noticed vans and cars loading up homeless people in the heart of Skid Row in Los Angeles. The employee told the state authorities, who, along with local officials, investigated. Now three hospitals are implicated in connection with what the authorities say is a fraud scheme involving the federal Medicaid and state Medi-Cal health insurance programs. PAGE 16
 DISASTER SPENDING GROWS
 Efforts at an explanation vary. Some point to global warming. Others divine political implications. But whatever the reasons, federal commitments for spending on national disasters have grown during the Bush administration, even discounting the singular costs for Hurricane Katrina. And experts say they expect the trend to continue. PAGE 24
 Obama's Ohio Question 20
 Famed Arch Falls 20
 SPORTS
 RAYS MANAGER FINDS WAY
 To Put the Pieces Together
 In his third year as manager, Joe Maddon has the Tampa Bay Rays improbably leading the American League East. Could the key be the inspirational quotations in the clubhouse from the likes of Albert Camus? (''I don't think he ever played here,'' center fielder B.J. Upton advises.) Or might it have more to do with his calm manner and aggressive philosophy? ''I don't want my players afraid of making mistakes,'' he says. PAGE 9
 A CHANGE IN APPROACH
 In March 2007, after three-putting on the 13th green at Doral Country Club during the W.G.C.-CA Championship, Sergio Garcia spat into the cup. On Friday, after he four-putted on the 17th hole at the P.G.A. Championship at Oakland Hills, there was no such response. The change in composure may be part of what will determine his success this weekend. PAGE 11
 OBITUARIES
 BERNIE MAC, 50
 He parlayed his success as a stand-up comedian into roles as evil-tongued but lovable rogues in films like ''Bad Santa'' and ''Mr. 3000'' and combined menace and sentiment as a reluctant foster father on ''The Bernie Mac Show'' on Fox. PAGE 25
 Arts & Leisure
 EYES, BRIGHT AND SHINING,
 Set Upon a New Journey
 The music of Bright Eyes, under the direction of Conor Oberst working with different groups of musicians, spans a wide swath of genres. This month, Mr. Oberst has released an album under his own name. And this time, he set limits: just a few musicians and a short time. He says this particular album is about two things: freedom and longevity. 21 
 IN DUBAI, BETTER ANDTALLER
 The Burj Dubai, the tallest building in the world, looks like a needle that could pierce the clouds. Adrian Smith, the building's lead designer, predicts that in the next five years other, taller buildings will surpass it. His firm has most of its projects in the United Arab Emirates, and he is already designing six more buildings taller than 100 stories there, which he explains is not about ego, but creating value in the middle of a desert. 24 
 The Magazine
 COULD OBAMA SIGNAL
 The End of Black Politics?
 To many black politicians who trace their roots in public life to the civil rights movement, Barack Obama's candidacy is the result of the forces they unleashed. But what would Mr. Obama's election to the presidency ultimately mean for black politics? PAGE 34
 KANYE ON KEYBOARDS
 There was once a time -- let's call it the 1990s -- when celebrities were famous more for their latest singles or films than for their emotional lives. But in the age of blogs, tantrums and musings are part of the appeal, and few interface via blog as adeptly and frequently as rapper-producer Kanye West. PAGE 16
 A TALL COOL, GLASS
 ... Of Sewage?
 In the world's driest places, the future of drinking water may flow from a wastewater recycling plant. PAGE 30
 Sunday Styles
 WHEN ANY OLD ICE
 Just Won't Do
 Ice connoisseurs like their frozen water chilled just so, and are very particular about whether it should be shaved, dimpled, crescent shaped or certified. Yes, certified. PAGE 1
 The Great Ukulele Revival 1 
 Book Review
 TAKING AIM AT FAT CATS,
 Albeit Vaguely
 Barbara Ehrenreich's ''This Land is Their Land'' is a collection of opinion articles that try to capture the economic anxieties of the aughts, as she calls them. But in so doing, Eve Fairbanks writes, Ms. Ehrenreich often lapses into vagueness, referring to those who oppress the poor as ''plutocrats'' who ''for all we know ... sip their single malts in mahogany-walled dens.'' PAGE 9
 A CIVILIAN ACTION
 Bryan Burrough writes that ''The Challenge,'' a new book by Jonathan Mahler about the Bush administration's plan to try Guantanamo detainees in secret military prisons, is a meticulously researched book written by a top-flight author on an important subject. It also happens to be especially timely, given that Salim Hamdan -- Osama bin Laden's recently convicted driver -- is a focus of the book. So why then, Mr. Burrough wonders, is the book so lifeless? PAGE 11
 Explaining Traffic Jams 1
 Sunday Business
 TRYING TO REIN IN
 A Runaway Train
 Credit default swaps, known as C.D.S.'s, allow investors to bet on a company's prospects or hedge against possible default by an issuer whose debt they hold. Regulators are trying to get a handle on the market for C.D.S's, and Gretchen Morgenson writes that that's a good thing, given the secretive nature of the swaps, the losses they are generating at some companies and the sheer size of the market for them. PAGE 1
 Travel
 A TRIP THAT'S CHEAP, FUN
 And a Little Dangerous
 Bolivia's much-advertised Most Dangerous Road (a k a Death Road), descends 12,000 feet over 40 miles from a mountain pass to a balmy resort town. It's just one of the country's extremes, which have made Bolivia an appealing destination to the young and daring who are willing to exchange comfort and safety for thrills on the cheap. PAGE 1
 A Trip to Shanxi Province 4
 36 Hours in Denver 11
 Automobiles
 A WEEKLONG PARADE 
 Of the Finest and Rarest
 The ordinarily low-key California communities of Monterey, Carmel and Pebble Beach are once again the places to ogle droves of impossibly well-turned-out cars at the Pebble Beach Concours d'Elegance. And even in an economic slump, auction houses expect collectors at the top of the food chain to keep buying the finest and rarest cars available. PAGE 1
 Week In Review
 ALIVE IN LONDON,
 But Buried in New York
 Archaeologists dug up what are believed to be pieces of the theater that was home to the troupe that employed Shakespeare as both an actor and an author. That news worked the Shakespeare lovers across the pond into a tizzy, but Charles Isherwood writes that there was no such excitement in New York City, where even theater companies devoted to Shakespeare rarely put on his works. PAGE 3 
 RUSSIA, POST-SOLZHENITSYN
 Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn's death underscores a sea change in Russian culture, the end of the era of intellectuals as popular dissidents who spoke truth to power. There is no cultural counterweight to the larger-than-life figure who dominates political life, Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin, Anne Barnard writes. PAGE 7 
 Alessandra Stanley: 
 Edwards On 'Nightline' 3
 Editorial
 ENERGY FICTIONS
 A toxic combination of the high price of gasoline, voter anxiety and presidential ambition is making it impossible for this country to have the grown-up conversation it needs to have about energy. week in review, PAGE 9
 Op-Ed
 MAUREEN DOWD
 John Edwards's diagnosis of narcissism was weirdly narcissistic. Even in confessing to preening, he was preening. week in review, PAGE 11
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 Unlike America, Denmark responded to the 1973 Arab oil embargo in such a sustained, focused and systematic way that today it is energy independent. week in review, PAGE 11
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 The United States is overinvesting in military tools and underinvesting in diplomatic ones, resulting in a lopsided foreign policy that is ineffective in tackling many modern problems. week in review, PAGE 12
 OLIVIA JUDSON
 Being obese during pregnancy is dangerous for the mother and expensive for the health care system. But does it affect the baby? week in review, PAGE 10
 THE PUBLIC EDITOR:
 The National Enquirer's stories on John Edwards's affair were seamy, but they were still worth chasing. The Times chose not to. week in review, PAGE 10

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (90%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); BASEBALL (83%); WEATHER (76%); MEDICAID (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); RELIGION (75%); CRISIS MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (75%); TRENDS (75%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (72%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (72%); HURRICANES (71%); NATURAL DISASTERS (71%); SEX OFFENSES (69%); HURRICANE KATRINA (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (67%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); FIRES (66%); COST OF LIVING (65%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); FOREST FIRES (50%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



232 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: The Race Is to the Swift

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
THE housing bill signed into law late last month was written with struggling borrowers, first-time buyers, veterans and the elderly in mind, but for the average borrower in the greater New York area, the bill represents a mix of good and bad news. 
 In practical terms, the bill means that anyone considering a mortgage of $625,000 to $729,750 should secure it before year's end, or face interest rates at least one percentage point higher. 
 Nicolas P. Retsinas, director of the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard, said the law could keep interest rates lower than they might otherwise have been. But of more impact, he said, is the increase in the ''conforming'' loan limit, from $417,000 to $625,000. The conforming limit, more commonly known as the ''jumbo'' limit, is the threshold above which Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac cannot buy loans from lenders. 
 When borrowers meet certain qualifications, like minimum down payments and credit scores, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac must, by law, buy the mortgages if they are under the conforming limit. 
 For a variety of reasons, interest rates for jumbo loans are typically at least one percentage point higher than those for non-jumbo loans, so the jumbo loan threshold is especially important in high-cost areas like the Northeast and California, where borrowers must often seek loans of $500,000 or more to buy an average-price home.
 While the increase in the conforming limit is generally good news, the limit is not as high as that set by a stopgap measure currently benefiting New Yorkers.
 Earlier this year, the government temporarily increased the jumbo limit through the end of 2008 to $625,000 overall and to $729,750 in the expensive New York City area -- giving buyers better rates than they would otherwise have gotten. 
 So mortgage executives now suggest that borrowers in the New York area act quickly if they think they will need loans of $625,000 to $729,750 in the coming months. ''They should do it before the end of the year,'' said Matt Hackett, underwriting manager at Equity Now, a Manhattan-based mortgage lender.
 Borrowers with good credit seeking a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage of $729,750 earlier this month would have received an interest rate of about 6.25 percent, Mr. Hackett said, as long as they made a down payment of at least 30 percent. Those who received a $729,750 loan at 6.25 percent would pay $609 per month less than if the interest rate were 7.5 percent -- the rate they would currently pay for a loan above the conforming limit, Mr. Hackett said.
 As for the housing bill's longer-term impact on interest rates, Mr. Retsinas of Harvard said: ''It's not the central intent of the bill overall, but I think it could have a modestly positive effect in lowering rates.''
 One central feature of the housing bill was its backing of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, thereby shoring up investor confidence in the companies. Michael Moskowitz, chief executive of Equity Now, said the government's support for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac may well have kept interest rates lower than they would otherwise have been in the short term.
 ''But if the government didn't get into this and Fannie and Freddie went worthless, you'd have seen lower interest rates, too,'' Mr. Moskowitz said, ''because the economy would be down.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate: Rates on most adjustable mortgages are set 2 or 3 percentage points above this index. Chart details line graph for fixed rates. (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



233 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; CALENDAR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2166 words

HEADLINE: CALENDAR

 BODY:
COMEDY
 SAG HARBOR Bay Street Theater ''Comedy Club at Bay Street.'' Joy Behar, Monday at 8 p.m. $65. Dom Irrera, Aug. 16 at 11 p.m. $50. Craig Shoemaker, Aug. 18 at 8 p.m. $50. Judah Friedlander, Aug. 23 at 11 p.m. $50. Bay Street Theater, Main and Bay Streets. (631) 725-9500; www.baystreet.org. 
 WESTHAMPTON BEACH Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center Long Island Comedy Festival: With Paul Anthony, Stevie G. B., Chris Monty, Carie Karavas and Keith Anthony. Thursday at 8 p.m. $25 to $45. Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center, 76 Main Street. (631) 288-1500; www.whbpac.org. 
 FILM 
 NORTHPORT Northport Public Library ''The Great Debaters,'' starring Denzel Washington. Aug. 22 at 1:30 p.m. Free. Northport Public Library, 151 Laurel Avenue. (631) 261-6930; www.nenpl.org. 
 ROSLYN HARBORNassau County Museum of Art ''The Rape of Europa,'' about the Nazis' looting of art treasures in Europe. Through Aug. 31. Free with museum admission. Nassau County Museum of Art, 1 Museum Drive. (516) 484-9337; www.nassaumuseum.com. 
 WESTHAMPTON BEACH Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center ''Days and Clouds,'' directed by Silvio Soldini. In Italian with English subtitles. Tuesday and Wednesday at 8 p.m. $3 to $10. Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center, 76 Main Street. (631) 288-1500; www.whbpac.org. 
 FOR CHILDREN
 CENTERPORT Vanderbilt Museum Summer Season 2008: ''Snow White'' and ''The Little Mermaid and the Prince,'' presented by the Arena Players. Through Aug. 31. $10. Vanderbilt Museum, Carriage House Theater, 180 Little Neck Road. (516) 293-0674; www.arenaplayers.org.
 GARDEN CITY Long Island Children's Museum ''Kangaroo Crossing,'' an exhibition that introduces children to the geography, geology, biology, economy, architecture, natural wonders and climate of Australia. Through Aug. 31. Free with museum admission. Long Island Children's Museum, 11 Davis Avenue. (516) 224-5800; www.licm.org. 
 HUNTINGTON Huntington Arts Council ''Frog and Toad Are Friends,'' presented by Broadhollow Players Family Theater. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Huntington Arts Council, 213 Main Street in Huntington Village. (631) 271-8423; www.huntingtonarts.org.
 LONG BEACHTheodore Roosevelt Nature Center ''Sunset Stroll.'' An evening hike by the water's edge to observe the changing colors of the sky. Aug. 16, 7 to 8:30 p.m. Free. Theodore Roosevelt Nature Center, Ocean Parkway. (516) 679-7254.
 PORT JEFFERSON Theater Three ''Alice's Most Decidedly Unusual Adventures in Wonderland,'' based on the story by Lewis Carroll. Through Aug. 16. $8. Theater Three, 412 Main Street. (631) 928-9100; www.theaterthree.com. 
 RIVERHEAD Long Island Science Center ''Alternative Energy.'' Build a windmill, Maglev train car, wind-powered vehicle or balloon car. Wednesday through Aug. 17. $2 and $5. Long Island Science Center, 11 West Main Street. (631) 208-8000; www.lisciencecenter.org. 
 SAG HARBOR Bay Street Theater Girl Authority, a pop sing-along group. For ages 8 to 12. Thursday at 3 p.m. $15. ''Freaky Friday,'' film with Jamie Lee Curtis and Lindsay Lohan. Aug. 21 at 3 p.m. $10. Bay Street Theater, Main and Bay Streets. (631) 725-9500; www.baystreet.org. 
 UPTONBrookhaven National Laboratory ''Whiz Bang Science Show.'' Visitors 16 and older must have photo ID. Aug. 10 and 17. Free. Brookhaven National Laboratory, County Road 46. (631) 344-3846; www.bnl.gov. 
 MUSIC AND DANCE
 AMAGANSETT Stephen Talkhouse Jesse Harris, jazz and folk, Monday at 8 p.m. $15. Eric Lindell, blues and rock, Tuesday at 9 p.m. $10. Coco Montoya, blues, Wednesday at 7 p.m. $35 and $45. John Brown's Body, reggae, Wednesday at 10:30 p.m. $25. Malea McGuinness, rock, Friday at 7 p.m. $10. Kenny Rankin, jazz and pop, Aug. 16 at 8:30 p.m. $150 and $250. Stephen Talkhouse, 161 Main Street. (631) 267-3117; www.stephentalkhouse.com. 
 BAY SHORE Dr. King's Park Long Island Tuba Quartet, with Bill Troiano and Jeff Furman, tubas, and Don Sherman and Michael Canipe, euphoniums. Tuesday at 12:30 p.m. Free. Dr. King's Park, Main Street. (631) 224-5420. 
 COPIAGUE Tanner Park Long Island Bluegrass Festival, with Dan Paisley and the Southern Grass and others. Aug. 16, noon to 8 p.m. $12; children under 12, free. Tanner Park, on the Great South Bay. (631) 587-3696; www.babylonarts.com.
 GREAT RIVER Bayard Cutting Arboretum State Park Toby Walker, Delta blues guitarist, Aug. 10 at 2 p.m. Free. The Wes Houston Band, blues and folk, Aug. 17 at 2 p.m. Free; $6 car parking fee. Bayard Cutting Arboretum State Park, 440 Montauk Highway. (631) 224-5420; www.nysparks.com. 
 HUNTINGTON Huntington Arts Council Twin Shores Chorus. Wednesday at 8 p.m. Jimmy Webb, singer-songwriter, Friday at 8:30 p.m. The Long Island Philharmonic presents ''Summon the Heroes'' in its ''Music Under the Stars'' program, Aug. 16 at 8:30 p.m. The Campbell Brothers, gospel with electric steel guitar, Aug. 17 at 8:30 p.m. Free. Huntington Arts Council , 213 Main Street in Huntington Village. (631) 271-8423; www.huntingtonarts.org. 
 HUNTINGTON Caumsett State Historic Park Caumsett Summer Cultural Arts Festival, featuring children's theatrical performances, magic shows, puppet theater, drama and musical performances for adults, Shakespeare in the Park and more. Through Aug. 17. Free. Caumsett State Historic Park, 25 Lloyd Harbor Road. (631) 423-1770. 
 PECONIC Pindar Vineyards Rare Groove Band, jazz. Aug. 16 at 6 p.m. $20; children 12 and under, free. Pindar Vineyards, Main Road (Route 25). (631) 734-6200; www.pindar.net. 
 SOUTHOLD Custer Institute and Observatory The Johnny Zarrow Band singing the music of Ray Charles, the Rolling Stones, the Chambers Brothers and others. Aug. 16, 8 to 9:30 p.m. Suggested donation, $13 or $15. Custer Institute and Observatory, Main Bayview Road. (631) 765-2626; www.custerobservatory.org. 
 SOUTHOLD Silversmith's Corner The Summer Showcase Concert Series, featuring East Bound Freight Bluegrass, Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Donation accepted. Counter Clockwise, pop, Aug. 17 at 7:30 p.m. Silversmith's Corner, Town Green on Main Road. (631) 765-3598. 
 WEST BAY SHORE Gardiner County Park Joel Sikowitz Dixieland Band. Aug. 16 at 6 p.m. Free. Gardiner County Park, Montauk Highway. (631) 224-5420. 
 WESTBURY Capital One Bank Theater Bruce Hornsby and the Noisemakers, pop and jazz, Tuesday at 8 p.m. $50. Live, Collective Soul and Blues Traveler, rock, Wednesday at 8 p.m. $51.50 and $66.50. Kenny Rogers with Savannah Jack, pop and country, Thursday at 8 p.m. $51.50 and $61.50. America with Kate Taylor, rock, Friday at 8 p.m. $40 and $50. Isaac Hayes with William Bell and Eddie Floyd, soul, funk and R & B, Aug. 16 at 8 p.m. $51.50 and $61.50. ''It Was Forty Years Ago Today,'' a tribute to Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band, with Todd Rundgren, Denny Laine, Bo Bice, Lou Gramm and Christopher Cross, Aug. 17 at 7 p.m. $41.50 and $61.50. Capital One Bank Theater , 960 Brush Hollow Road. (516) 334-0800; www.livenation.com. 
 WESTHAMPTON BEACH Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center Bruce Hornsby and the Noisemakers, pop and jazz, Aug. 10 at 8:30 p.m. $90 to $135. Sharon Jones and the Dap-Kings, soul, Aug. 16 at 8:30 p.m. $45 to $75. Herbie Hancock, jazz pianist, Aug. 17 at 8:30 p.m. $125 to $175. The New York City Opera, Aug. 23 at 8:30 p.m. $60 to $200. Westhampton Beach Performing Arts Center, 76 Main Street. (631) 288-1500; www.whbpac.org. 
 OUTDOORS
 EAST HAMPTON Guild Hall ''Garden as Art,'' a tour of private gardens. Aug. 22 and 23. $75 to $500. Guild Hall, 158 Main Street. (631) 324-4050; www.guildhall.org.
 GREAT RIVER Bayard Cutting Arboretum State Park Shakespeare in the Park presents ''Twelfth Night.'' Aug. 24 and 25. Bayard Cutting Arboretum State Park, 440 Montauk Highway. (631) 224-5420; www.nysparks.com. 
 HUNTINGTON Caumsett State Historic Park Shakespeare in the Park presents ''Twelfth Night.'' Aug. 10 at 5:30 p.m. Caumsett State Historic Park, 25 Lloyd Harbor Road. (631) 423-1770.
 MONTAUK Hither Hills State Park ''Sandcastle Contest.'' Build a castle using sand, water and other beach materials. Prizes awarded in several categories. Through Aug. 28. Registration required. Hither Hills State Park, 50 South Fairview Avenue. (631) 668-2554. OYSTER BAY Planting Fields Arboretum State Historic Park Family Garden Tours. Learn about plants, trees and flowers and what an arboretum is. Through Aug. 16. $2 and $4. Planting Fields Arboretum State Historic Park, 1395 Planting Fields Road. (516) 922-9200; www.plantingfields.org. 
 THEATER
 BELLPORT Gateway Playhouse ''Show Boat,'' Jerome Kern/Oscar Hammerstein II musical based on the novel by Edna Ferber. Through Aug. 23. $39 to $45. Gateway Playhouse, 215 South Country Road. (631) 286-1133; www.gatewayplayhouse.com. 
 CENTERPORT Vanderbilt Museum Summer Festival 2008: ''Hamlet,'' presented by the Arena Players. Through Aug. 29. $15. Vanderbilt Museum, Carriage House Theater, 180 Little Neck Road. (516) 293-0674; www.arenaplayers.org. 
 CHERRY GROVE, FIRE ISLAND Tides Playhouse ''Sordid Lives,'' comedy by Del Shores, presented by the Island Repertory Theater Company. Through Aug. 17. $30. Tides Playhouse, Ocean Walk. (631) 597-9439. 
 EAST FARMINGDALE Arena Players Main Stage Theater ''Ladies in Retirement,'' by Edward Percy and Reginald Denham. Through Aug. 31. $18 and $22. Arena Players Main Stage Theater, 296 Route 109. (516) 293-0674; www.arenaplayers.org. 
 EAST HAMPTON Mulford Farm ''The Complete Works of William Shakespeare (Abridged),'' comedy. Aug. 17 through 31. $12 and $18. Mulford Farm, 10 James Lane. (631) 324-6850; www.easthamptonhistory.org. 
 HOLBROOK Sachem Public Library ''Twelfth Night,'' Shakespeare's comedy presented by Plaza Theatrical Productions. Monday at 7 p.m. Sachem Public Library, 150 Holbrook Library. (631) 588-5024; sachem.suffolk.lib.ny.us. 
 LINDENHURST Studio Theater ''Suddenly Last Summer,'' drama by Tennessee Williams, through Aug. 17. ''Countermoves,'' drama, Aug. 23 through Sept. 14. $14 to $22. Studio Theater, 141 South Wellwood Avenue. (631) 581-2700; www.broadhollow.org. 
 MERRICK The Stage Theater ''Smokey Joe's Cafe,'' revue featuring the songs of Jerry Leiber and Mike Stoller. Through Aug. 17. $14 and $18. The Stage Theater, 2222 Hewlett Avenue. (516) 868-6400; www.thestageinmerrick.com. 
 NORTHPORT John W. Engeman Theater ''Over the River and Through the Woods,'' comedy. Through Sept. 14. $50. John W. Engeman Theater, 250 Main Street. (631) 261-2900; www.johnwengemantheater.com. 
 OAKDALE CM Performing Arts Center ''Thoroughly Modern Millie,'' musical, through Aug. 31. $16 and $22. ''Oliver,'' musical, through Aug. 31. $16 to $22. CM Performing Arts Center, 931 Montauk Highway. (631) 218-2810; www.cmpac.com. 
 PATCHOGUE Patchogue Theater for the Performing Arts ''Ticket To Ride: The Ultimate Beatle Experience,'' choreographed by David Marquez. Through Aug. 17. Adults, $30 to $50; children, $20 to $30. Patchogue Theater for the Performing Arts, 71 East Main Street. (631) 207-1313; www.patchoguetheatre.com. 
 PORT JEFFERSON Theater Three ''1968: Rock the World,'' by Jeffrey Sanzel and Ellen Michelmore. Through Aug. 16. $21 to $28. Theater Three, 412 Main Street. (631) 928-9100; www.theaterthree.com. 
 RIVERHEAD The Vail-Leavitt Music Hall ''Hamlet: Prince of Denmark,'' presented by RWStageArt. Through Aug. 10. $10 and $15. Vail-Leavitt Music Hall, 18 Peconic Avenue. (631) 727-5782; www.vail-leavitt.org. 
 SAG HARBOR Bay Street Theater ''Ain't Misbehavin','' musical, songs by Fats Waller. Through Aug. 31. $65. Bay Street Theater, Main and Bay Streets. (631) 725-9500; www.baystreet.org. SMITHTOWN Smithtown Center for the Performing Arts ''Grey Gardens,'' musical by Doug Wright. Through Sept. 7. $26 to $30. Smithtown Center for the Performing Arts, 2 East Main Street. (631) 724-3700; www.smithtownpac.org. 
 SPOKEN WORD
 COLD SPRING HARBOR Whaling Museum Sal Polisi, a woodcarver from South Street Seaport, will talk about his craft. Aug. 10, 1 to 4 p.m. Free. Whaling Museum, Route 25A. (631) 367-3418; www.cshwhalingmuseum.org. EAST HAMPTON Guild Hall Grace Schulman reads from ''The Broken String,'' her newest poetry collection. Introduction by the poet Philip Schultz. Aug. 17 at 4 p.m. Free. Guild Hall, 158 Main Street. (631) 324-4050; www.guildhall.org. 
 MUSEUMS AND GALLERIES
 BELLPORT Ratio Gallery ''Borrowed Memory,'' drawings by Viviane Silvera. Through Aug. 30. Hours: Fridays, 1 to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; all other days by appointment. Ratio Gallery, 10 Bell Street. (631) 286-4020; ratiogallery.com.
 EAST HAMPTON The Drawing Room ''Brass,'' an exhibition of works by Christopher Hewat. Through Monday. Hours: Sunday, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Monday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. The Drawing Room, 16R Newtown Lane. (631) 324-5016; www.drawingroom-gallery.com. 
 HUNTINGTON Huntington Public Library ''Hunting Beaches and Other,'' paintings by Elizabeth Ehrlichman. Through Aug. 29. Huntington Public Library, 338 Main Street. (631) 427-5165; hpl.suffolk.lib.ny.us. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ROSLYN HARBOR: A Cinderella pop-up book from ''Pop-Up Fairy Tales,'' an exhibition featuring pop-up books and other objects from the collection of Leah Fiterstein. Through Oct. 12. Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 4:45 p.m. Nassau County Museum of Art, 1 Museum Drive. (516) 484-9337
www.nassaumuseum.com.
EAST HAMPTON: Rosie Lani Fiedelman will be performing in ''Twilight in the Garden of Hope,'' by Jennifer Muller/The Works. Aug. 16 at 5 p.m. $35 and $125
members,$33. Guild Hall, 158 Main Street. (631) 324-4050
www.guildhall.org.
STONY BROOK: An original Steeplechase Horse from the collection of Paul Brigandi in ''Hot Dawg! Celebrating Coney Island, America's First Amusement Park,'' a collection of Coney Island memorabilia at the Ward Melville Heritage Organization Educational and Cultural Center. On view through Aug. 24. Admission is $4 to $7. 97P Main Street. (631) 689-5888
 www.wmho.org. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (76%); FESTIVALS (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: DENZEL WASHINGTON (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



234 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: 'If to Do Were as Easy as to Know'

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
New discoveries pertaining to Shakespeare, the most exhaustively, obsessively studied writer in history, are rare. So the news that archaeologists in London have unearthed the remains of the theater where many Shakespeare plays were first presented inspired understandable excitement last week.
 Archaeologists from the Museum of London, digging in the Shoreditch neighborhood, appear to have uncovered the foundations of the Theater, which opened in 1576 and was the initial London home of the Lord Chamberlain's Men, the troupe that employed Shakespeare as both actor and author. 
 Those dusty bricks will no doubt beget a few books. The shelves at chain bookstores already groan with tomes devoted to Shakespeare. Year after year, academics and critics continue to fill the void of concrete knowledge about his life with new interpretations of the sketchy historical record, new perspectives on the plays, new theories about the life.
 But while the Shakespeare scholarship industry thrives, the art of producing and performing his plays seems to be in a state of decline in our own country's cultural capital. London is awash in Shakespeare year-round -- at the Royal Shakespeare Company, at Shakespeare's Globe and at the National Theater -- but his plays are performed only rarely on New York's largest stages. 
 The Public Theater, which announced last week the hiring of a new executive director, Andrew D. Hamingson, presented just one Shakespeare play last season, an ill-received ''Hamlet'' at the Delacorte Theater in Central Park, directed by the company's new-ish artistic director, Oskar Eustis. The only other major homegrown Shakespeare production was the Lincoln Center Theater's ''Cymbeline.''
 The two truly notable Shakespeare stagings to be seen here recently -- ''King Lear'' starring Ian McKellen and ''Macbeth'' with Patrick Stewart -- both came courtesy of the Royal Shakespeare Company. All praise to the Brooklyn Academy of Music, which hosted both productions (''Macbeth'' later had a brief Broadway run) and regularly imports acclaimed international productions of classical theater. But isn't it an embarrassment that when it comes to the greatest playwright in the English language -- oh, heck, the greatest playwright in any language -- America's theatrical epicenter is fast becoming just another stop for globe-trotting star productions from England? A New Yorker could justifiably be a little ashamed, too, that both Chicago and Washington have large, well-financed and well-established theaters that produce three or more Shakespeare plays a season. Both are actually denoted ''Shakespeare'' theaters. New York hasn't got one.
 Commerce has always been the keynote of the New York theater, of course, and star-driven Shakespeare was long a staple of Broadway. But as the American theater matured in the early decades of the 20th century, the companies that bucked the mercantilism of Broadway -- the Theater Guild, the Group Theater, the Provincetown Players -- focused largely on new domestic and/or international work (although the Theater Guild sporadically produced classics including Shakespeare over the years). Eva Le Gallienne's short-lived Civic Repertory Theater primarily championed Ibsen and Chekhov. Shakespeare took care of himself, with the help of British stars swanning into town to ravish the Americans with the beauty of their verse-speaking, or matinee idols like John Barrymore.
 But the breadth of Broadway offerings waned as television and movies changed the cultural landscape, and the regional theater movement that spawned large repertory theaters in various American cities did not really play a part in the more bustling and complicated economy of New York theater. 
 When Joseph Papp founded the New York Shakespeare Workshop in 1954, he was driven by several impulses -- to create free theater, to promote racial diversity onstage and to provide New Yorkers with a steady diet of Shakespeare. But as the company grew and moved into its Astor Place home, its brief widened to include the production of new plays and musicals. Unfortunately the economics of producing theater in New York has gotten tougher in the decades since Mr. Papp's prime. In the late 1960s and early 1970s the New York Shakespeare Festival could present several Shakespeare productions on top of fistfuls of new American plays, not to mention the pioneering foreign work Mr. Papp also favored. Now the company produces far fewer shows a year. 
 For several years the emphasis has continued to shift to contemporary work, a change that appears to be accelerating under Mr. Eustis. There was no Shakespeare on any of the five stages at the Public in the last season, and none is on the schedule for the coming season. The first production announced for next summer's Shakespeare in the Park is actually Euripides's ''Bacchae.'' (And this year the hot ticket in Central Park was not ''Hamlet'' but the current ''Hair.'') In 2002 the Public shed the ''New York Shakespeare Festival'' designation, at least for general branding purposes. It was a cosmetic change to be sure but one that seems to reflect a declining emphasis on the company's Bardic roots. 
 The truly Shakespeare-hungry will not starve in the city. Smaller not-for-profit companies like Theater for a New Audience and the Classic Stage Company reliably program Shakespeare plays, and there are of course those notable international productions at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. Lower down the theatrical food chain, scrappy little companies put on Shakespeare in parking lots and hole-in-the-wall theaters on the Lower East Side.
 But there is an obvious reason for large Shakespeare-centric theaters like those in London and Washington and Chicago, and Shakespeare festivals like the notable ones in Stratford, Ontario, and Ashland, Oregon. Shakespeare best thrives at theaters that present his plays regularly and with significant resources. Even a minor Shakespeare play is a major challenge to produce well. Ideally you begin with a large cast of talented, classically trained actors -- a commodity not in generous supply these days. Add skillful dramaturgy and an insightful, experienced director, and if you're lucky you might just achieve competence. Practice doesn't necessarily make perfect when it comes to writing as complex as Shakespeare's, but it helps. 
 New York audiences could surely support a first-class Shakespeare theater. The wonderfully mixed audiences that fill Shakespeare's Globe on the South Bank of the Thames look quite a bit like the crowds that flock to the Delacorte, or for that matter throng Times Square. And, after all, the Globe rose just over a decade ago -- a cause led, interestingly, by the American actor Sam Wanamaker, who sadly died before the project came to fruition. 
 An intriguing plan to build a New Globe Theater in Castle Williams on Governors Island has a long list of distinguished supporters. But the draft for the development of the site released by the National Park Service in February did not include the New Globe. At this point it appears this worthy project is little more than a Web site and a dream. (You can check out details at www.newglobe.org.) More realistically, perhaps we can hope that Mr. Eustis and Mr. Hamingson, as they put in place their plans for the Public, will rededicate at least part of the company's resources to the playwright whose works inspired Mr. Papp to establish it in the first place.
 The need is real. Shakespeare is the taproot of the English-language theater, a limitless source of inspiration for theater artists of all kinds, an ever-renewable source of pleasure for audiences. To read him is a joy, yes, but the plays are better said than read. That the country's leading theatrical marketplace can offer up only a paltry couple of major homegrown Shakespeare productions a year is a puzzle and a problem. But surely not an insoluble one. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TAMARA SHOPSIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHAEOLOGY (91%); WRITERS (90%); THEATER (90%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); BRITISH MONARCHS (87%); HISTORY (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); BOOKSTORES (75%); EXECUTIVES (70%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



235 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; WILLETS POINT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Imagining a Place Where Cheers Never End

BYLINE: By SOPHIA HOLLANDER

 BODY:
ERIC SIMON, a software developer, squinted into the darkening shadows. The bright lights of Shea Stadium and the giddiness of his baseball bachelor party had faded, and as dusk fell, Mr. Simon and his friends found themselves in a warren of scrappy auto-repair shops known as Willets Point.
 Even now, two years later, Mr. Simon, 29, still vividly remembers the shift from broad, paved boulevards to broken, pothole-pitted sidewalks. Through one window of the car, he saw a small shack; through another, the dim silhouette of a chained dog. Random car parts were strewn on a bed of oil spills and sludge. 
 ''We were looking at each other and hoping we got out alive,'' Mr. Simon said of that evening. ''It certainly wasn't something I want to experience again.''
 So this season, when he came across the Mets blog developwilletspoint.com, he was intrigued. The site, run by a longtime Mets fan named Chris McShane, was dedicated to bringing together fans eager to help reshape the rundown section of Queens into ''the best neighborhood in Major League Baseball,'' according to the blog. 
 Mr. Simon e-mailed Mr. McShane, 23, whose day job is as a constituent liaison for Assemblyman Jeffrey Dinowitz. Through Mr. McShane, Mr. Simon was directed to the Web site of the city's Economic Development Corporation, which described Mayor Bloomberg's multibillion-dollar plan to redevelop the 61-acre site into an environmentally friendly residential and commercial community. 
 Renderings showed 126th Street, which runs in front of Citi Field, the Mets' new home, transformed into a strip of cafes and shops. 
 Mr. Simon and Mr. McShane represent a new breed of Mets fans, people who have embraced the plans for a new stadium and are now working to help revitalize the surrounding neighborhood. They are using team blogs to publicize community meetings about the future of Willets Point and to update Mets fans on developments. 
 ''If they can successfully build a neighborhood there that draws in people before and after games, but also has permanent residents, I feel like it would have a good effect on the whole area,'' said Mr. McShane, who grew up near New Haven and frequented Fenway Park in Boston, where lively restaurants and bars surround the stadium. ''That's something that I always wanted to do for my favorite team.''
 Mets fans have long coveted the vibrant settings around other ballparks, including Fenway, Camden Yards in Baltimore and Wrigley Field in Chicago.
 Madelyn Wils, an executive vice president at the city's development corporation, said she understood the excitement of Mets fans. 
 ''Nobody spends the evening around Shea Stadium now,'' Ms. Wils said. ''They get out as quickly as they can.'' 
 The City Planning Commission is scheduled to consider Mr. Bloomberg's proposal at a hearing on Wednesday. If approved by the commission and by the City Council, the project could be completed by 2017.
 If Mr. Simon and Mr. McShane are leaders in the grass-roots movement to revitalize Willets Points, diehard fans like Jim Conway are its foot soldiers. Mr. Conway, a crane operator, spoke on behalf of the plan last month at a hearing before the Queens borough president, Helen Marshall, saying that it would bring needed jobs to the area. But he admitted later that he had more on his mind than economic interests.
 ''In Shea, it's very depressing,'' Mr. Conway said as he prepared for his annual pilgrimage to watch the Mets play in Chicago. ''You're embarrassed to ask people from out of town to go with you. There's no place where you can celebrate being a baseball fan. You don't feel proud.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chris McShane, Mets fan and cheerleader for Willets Point redevelopment. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); CITIES (70%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (69%); WEB SITES (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%); DRINKING PLACES (63%); OIL SPILLS (55%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (91%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (54%); C (BMV) (54%); 8710 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (67%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (78%); MARYLAND, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



236 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: 'Swingtown' And the Heyday Of the Average

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
SOMEDAY I may better understand the mechanics of the millennial mind. Until then I will wonder how shows like ''Ghost Whisperer'' keep going and a series like ''Swingtown'' fails to catch on. A period piece on CBS, ''Swingtown'' nears the end of its summer run with a dwindling audience despite all the elements that seemed to point to its potential for popularity. 
 Any network executive familiar with Domino magazine would have been justified in thinking that ''Swingtown,'' with its meticulous re-creation of the 1970s living space, could easily attract every high earner from 34 to 56, from TriBeCa to Laurel Canyon. Set in 1976 on the eve of the Carter presidency and during the midnight of mass-cultural sexual mischief, ''Swingtown'' reminds us what a rerun the American experience really is. We make our beds more neatly now -- tuck our children into them more securely -- but in many ways the scent of mayhem is familiar. 
 Has it ever felt quite so much like the mid-'70s? Here we are on the brink of a turning-point election, facing an oil crisis, tumbling employment, fears of stagflation, executive overreach. At the same time trend watchers know that decorators have exhumed and repurposed trellis wallpaper, ceramic dogs, black lacquer and upholstery fabric that looks as if it has come from the cabin of a Braniff 747. 
 ''Swingtown'' (Fridays at 10 p.m.) takes place up in the mile-high club and down on the ground on Chicago's suburban North Shore, among three couples endangered more by viral class consciousness than by the rampant partner swapping suddenly in vogue. 
 Tom and Trina Decker (Grant Show and Lana Parrilla) are the seasoned swingers, the match to the fire, a couple who conduct their marriage according to a contract that frees them to open and close the party as their jealousies ebb and encroach. Their dalliance with a wealthy ex-boyfriend of Trina's muddled things for a bit, and Tom's retaliatory gesture briefly made matters worse. But the Deckers maintain their equilibrium, we're made to understand, because they keep to the era's code of compulsive honesty. They live in the moment, and then, presumably, they talk about that moment, a lot.
 Trina is intoxicating -- all historical accuracy prettiness. She seems to swim and wear sarongs as a vocation. She is also kind and generous in a period-specific way, anticipating who will need her nudges toward self-actualization most. 
 It serves her marriage well that she is the sort of a woman who never goes anywhere -- not to a downtown sex club or a branch of Marshall Field's -- worried that she might encounter someone thinner, younger, better made to wear jersey. Her new friend, Susan Miller (Molly Parker), who has moved into a big house across the street, is mesmerized by her confidence. Susan's husband, Bruce (Jack Davenport), a dull, Republican stock trader, meanwhile, is just mesmerized.
 Swinging is often referred to by its practitioners as ''the lifestyle,'' but ''Swingtown'' has had the good sense to brush past its conceit, focusing instead on the tensions surrounding styles of living, absent the quotation marks. The Deckers and the Millers get their foursome over with early on, settling into a traditional friendship primarily complicated by the Thompsons -- Janet and Roger (Miriam Shor and Josh Hopkins) -- old neighbors of the Millers from a less prosperous part of town where the lawns are stingy and the attitudes just as boxed in.
 ''Swingtown'' can occasionally feel like an assault by visual cliche, but the dynamic captures culture wars just as they are incubating. In 1976 Newsweek ran a cover story declaring ''the year of the evangelical,'' marking a new era of national fissure. Janet -- conservative, churchgoing, always home baking and scrubbing the counters -- represents a distaste for a new world in which the elites are no longer just manning the command posts but also redefining what it means to have a good time. Though she initially seemed doomed to caricature, Janet has bloomed into full human form, trying to accept her old friend's exploratory impulses while envying her new status.
 The Millers' rise has coincided with the Thompsons' descent. The recession has left Roger without the job he never liked. ''Twelve years of selling insurance and I haven't had a day full of wonder yet,'' he told Janet one morning. Roger wants more -- more meaning, more growth, more of what the decade has dangled before him and put up for sale. That he silently sees it in Susan, with her pale, blank, open beauty -- so far unsullied by the era's raunch and aspiration -- moves the narrative along. To call ''Swingtown'' a thriller isn't to mischaracterize it: Roger and Susan are ticking bombs ambling toward the last second in 20th-century life when you could still leave your family for the soul mate around the block and get away with it.
 ''Swingtown'' turns out to be a double entendre. On the one hand it delivers the image of the '70s as a great big sexual playpen, and on the other it suggests a world where people might still leap from the A-frame to the sprawling colonial, regardless of education or pedigree. None of the principals appear to have gone to college. Bruce and Susan married right out of high school, when she became pregnant with their daughter, Laurie. 
 This being the '70s, it should go without saying that No One Is Paying Attention to the Children. Still, despite all the neglect, Laurie is the most grating presence on the show because she is the vision of the dull, divided future. She patronizes her mother for her tentative feminism and disdains her father for reading ''Jaws.'' Her own summer pleasure runs toward Kierkegaard. As Laurie's boyfriend explains to her when they're watching the Republican convention on TV, Ford might have won the nomination, but Reagan really is the one to watch.
 ''Swingtown'' is a nostalgia vehicle, but what it is nostalgic for isn't the epoch of round-the-clock spin-the-bottle for consenting adults. It is wistful for the years in which it was still possible for rather average people to do extremely well. Tom is an airline pilot living in a Modernist fantasy of a house with a view of Lake Michigan and a kidney-shaped pool. But we know where the story is going: Sometime in his not-too-distant future, the glamour days of aviation are going to come to an end, and someone in private equity will be playing host on his patio. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Decker living room, above, and the Thompson living room, top, in CBS's ''Swingtown,'' which stars, from left, Molly Parker, Miriam Shor and Lana Parrilla.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SONJA FLEMMING/CBS)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MONTY BRINTON/CBS)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL DESMOND/CBS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILLENNIUM (89%); EXECUTIVES (71%); TRENDS (70%)

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (60%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (60%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (60%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



237 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: The Pull of Heavy Industry

BYLINE: By ALEX KUMMANT. 
As told to Patricia R. Olsen.

 BODY:
A STREAK of resilience runs through my family. Three of my grandparents' families immigrated in the 1700s to Russia, then under Catherine the Great, from Germany. Then they were forced to leave during the Russian Revolution.
 After World War II, each of my parents immigrated to Canada and then to the United States, where they met. My mother came from a German refugee camp after leaving Estonia just ahead of the collapsing Russian front. My father's family, from Poland, regrouped in Vienna and then left. In effect, my family lost everything twice.
 My father was chief engineer in a steel mill in the United States during the oil drilling boom of the 1970s. The endurance required in that type of work is also a thread in the manufacturing and transportation companies I've been involved in. These are heavily capitalized businesses where there's an almost physical engagement. That has always appealed to me. The strategic questions are often about whether you spend a great deal of money or close facilities. 
 Part of life in heavy industry involves a certain dogged persistence in pursuing incremental improvements. I contrast that with the Silicon Valley executives who say you need to have big goals and challenge the organization. I don't disagree with that, but when you grow up in manufacturing or transportation, the incremental improvements you make every day are what create robust change in the end.
 My first job out of college was in an engineering group at Standard Oil of Ohio. I spent three years on a solar energy project. When oil prices crashed in the mid-1980s, it was clear that the project would be discontinued. Twenty-three years later, the price of oil is playing a significant role in Amtrak's recent increase in ridership. 
 I went to Carnegie Mellon University for a master's degree in engineering. After graduating, I worked for a Carnegie spin-off. I also went back to school, in the late 1980s, for an M.B.A from Stanford. In 1999, I joined the Union Pacific railroad as vice president and general manager, industrial products, in Omaha and eventually took over as vice president, central region, in Kansas City, Mo.
 Competition among big railroads can be fierce, but I married a woman from another railroad company. I met Kathleen, my wife-to-be, when I was at Union Pacific and she was working for Burlington Northern Santa Fe. I left Union Pacific and became president of Bomag, an international manufacturer of heavy equipment for road construction. 
 Most big rail companies are facing a brain drain in the next five to seven years because of retirements. But also, because of our pay scale, we're going to have to find ways to attract and retain the next generation of employees. Since we report to people rooted in government, sometimes we have to work hard to get the point across that we cannot support critical functions at the government pay rate. It's always a political tug of war.
 We've just completed a major labor agreement with our 15,000 unionized front-line people, which was long overdue. They're now much more aligned with the market. But we're also an intense knowledge business, with complex systems that include marketing, finance, engineering and I.T. Those are all critical functions as well.
 Chief executives are often asked what keeps them up at night. For me, the first answer is my four-month-old. The second answer is human resources issues. 
 Being an older father keeps you young. People who have children at a younger age sometimes take it for granted. You trade off a creaky back for a certain amount of wisdom you can bring to a child. I approach fatherhood with a sense of humility every day, and a little bit of wonder. It's a blessing. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alex Kummant 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); FAMILY (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); REFUGEES (78%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); OIL EXTRACTION (69%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (68%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (66%); SOLAR ENERGY (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); WORLD WAR II (57%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

COMPANY: UNION PACIFIC CORP (56%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (53%); UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD CO (52%); BURLINGTON NORTHERN SANTA FE CORP (51%)

TICKER: UNP (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (56%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); OMAHA, NE, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (55%) MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); GERMANY (92%); ESTONIA (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



238 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE DEBT TRAP; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1815 words

HEADLINE: Credit Cards Tighten Grip Outside U.S.

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; Sebnem Arsu contributed reporting from Istanbul, and Martin Fackler from Seoul.

DATELINE: ISTANBUL 

 BODY:
In Turkey, where borrowing money was until very recently a family affair, being in debt carried a fearful stigma. Some here even likened it to the disgrace that drives people to commit the honor killings that still occur in parts of this society.
 ''People who would kill their sisters or daughters for bringing shame on the family would do anything to avoid being labeled a debtor,'' said Nazim Kaya, the president of Consumers Union, an advocacy group that helps those who fall into debt.
 But in a cultural shift that has swept aside centuries of tradition, credit cards have become commonplace here. Only three decades ago, Turkey had fewer than 10,000 cards; today it has more than 38 million.
 As the American blessing of credit cards became widespread, so did the American curse of debt. Outstanding card debt here ballooned to nearly $18 billion last year, six times the level five years earlier. Default rates spiked and consumer groups protested sky-high interest charges. Newspapers were filled with stories of desperate card holders killing themselves or others. 
 In 2006, a fierce outcry prompted Turkey to pass a law clamping down on credit card marketers.
 ''We did not listen to our ancestors' proverb,'' Mr. Kaya said. '' 'Stretch your leg only as far as your blanket.' ''
 Few American exports have proved as popular as credit cards. In just a generation, they have gone from a totem of Western affluence to an everyday accessory in Brazil, Mexico, India, China, South Korea and elsewhere. More than two-thirds of the world's 3.67 billion payment cards circulate abroad.
 This global shopping spree has turned Visa and MasterCard into Wall Street wonders: Visa completed the largest stock offering in American history in March, and MasterCard's shares have risen almost 500 percent since the company went public in 2006.
 Their real opportunities for higher profits lie abroad. The card issuers make their money by collecting a fee on each card and a tiny percentage on purchases. (Banks primarily make their profit by charging interest.) In Asia, Latin America and Central Europe, card transaction volume is rising 20 to 30 percent a year, more than twice the growth rate in the United States.
 But when credit cards are handed out to unsophisticated consumers -- as they often are in shopping malls, factories and university campuses in middle-income developing countries -- they can pile up debts that can take years to pay off, if they ever are.
 In South Korea, for instance, a surge of defaults in 2003 set off a national crisis. Now industry experts say they see similar dangers in rapidly growing markets like Turkey and China, where there are more than 100 million cards.
 While acknowledging the risks, many here argue that the advantages of credit cards outweigh their dangers.
 Like cellphones, they hasten economic development. They offer convenience to people who might never have had a bank account but whose rising incomes give them the power to buy motorcycles, refrigerators and stereos. By registering transactions, they also shrink the size of the black-market economy, allowing governments to collect taxes they might have missed.
 The business is lucrative for Turkish banks: profit per card is higher here than in America. That has made the banks attractive to foreign investors.
 ''This is a society that has transformed itself,'' said Suzan Sabanci Dincer, scion of one of Turkey's wealthiest families and the chairwoman of Akbank, a large card issuer here. In 2006, Citigroup bought 20 percent of Akbank -- drawn partly, she said, by its credit card franchise. 
 Yet, Turkey -- with its stumbles and its tentative recovery -- offers a cautionary tale.
 The Cost of Credit
 At the upscale Akmerkez mall in Istanbul, the siren call of credit is everywhere. Advertisements posted in the doorways of stores promise bonus points if shoppers pay with a preferred card. Big-ticket items like refrigerators can be paid for over several months, provided the purchase is made with plastic.
 Turkey's two biggest card issuers, Yapi Kredi and Garanti, have branches in the shopping mall, with agents busily processing applications. In the anything-goes era before the 2006 law, banks handed out applications to families as they shopped. Cards were issued with only cursory credit checks.
 That is how Halim Uzel got his first taste of American-style credit. In 1999, two salesmen from a Turkish bank turned up on the floor of the textile factory where he worked, hawking cards. He showed them identification and his cellphone, filled out a one-page form, and in three weeks received a Visa and a MasterCard in the mail.
 By 2001, Mr. Uzel was deep in debt. Earning the equivalent of $4,360 a year, he had nearly $6,000 in unpaid balances on five credit cards. Seven years later, after borrowing from family, friends and even his boss to meet payments, he finally paid off his cards. 
 ''My best years as a young man have been wasted,'' said Mr. Uzel, 32, fingering a set of worry beads. ''I haven't had a social life for 10 years. I've given the last penny in my pocket to the banks.''
 Turkish bankers acknowledge there were excesses, but they chalk it up to the times. ''Some banks may have gone too far,'' said Mehmet Sezgin, the general manager of the card business at Turkey's second-largest issuer, Garanti. ''We were coming out of a crisis in 2001.''
 Turkey's economy had nearly collapsed. Banks' main business of lending to the state was no longer profitable, so they focused on consumer lending. Because many Turks did not have bank accounts, the fastest way to build business was to hand out credit cards.
 Until then, lending in Turkey had been confined primarily to families. Consumer loans were too expensive or too hard to get, said Ahmet Faruk Aysan, a professor of economics at Bosporus University in Istanbul.
 The first card, from Diners Club, turned up in Turkey in 1968, followed by American Express. Visa's arrival accelerated things, by helping set up a system for card payments among banks.
 Mr. Sezgin opened an office for MasterCard in Istanbul in 1993. In the early days, he said, Visa and MasterCard were featured prominently on the cards. Now, banks here drive the market, and their brand names are most prominent. 
 With loyalty programs and cards tailored to every demographic group, Turkey's market is a model for foreigners. UniCredit of Italy owns a stake in Yapi Kredi and has used its card expertise in other countries. And Ms. Sabanci says Akbank and Citigroup are talking about marketing a joint card.
 For Turkey or any fast-growing market, the chilling example of a credit culture run amok is South Korea. Frenzied competition in a deregulated market led to the issuance of 148 million credit cards in a country of 49 million people.
 Korean banks and industrial conglomerates showered consumers, even high school students, with free, unsolicited cards. They put little effort into credit checks and competed to offer ever bigger cash advances.
 As consumers took advances on new cards to pay old ones, debt ballooned. In 2003, with default rates soaring to 28 percent, the industry collapsed. The government had to intervene to rescue issuers; the largest was taken over by banks.
 Korea's default rate plummeted. Issuers began sharing data about customers and importing Western credit-rating firms' methods for vetting applicants.
 ''They learned a big lesson,'' said Park Chang-gyun, a business professor at Chung-Ang University, referring to credit card companies. ''They no longer chase blindly after market share.''
 Restraining Debt
 In Turkey, change was prompted by a grim statistic. From 2003 to 2006, consumer groups said, 41 people died because of credit card debt, either through suicide or homicide.
 In one widely publicized case, a 37-year-old policeman shot himself in the head on an Istanbul street after friends tried to wrest the gun from him. He was depressed over $40,000 in debts.
 Turkey's 2006 law capped the monthly interest charged by banks. (Because of inflation, annual rates once topped 100 percent.) The law tied credit limits to a user's income, doubled minimum payments and stiffened credit checks. 
 Analysts say it has curbed the worst excesses. The amount of credit card debt in default declined to 6.3 percent in March, from a peak of 8 percent in early 2006, according to the Turkish central bank. While that is not excessive by world standards, it is higher than the 5.17 percent rate in the United States.
 ''You still don't have the kinds of credit information in Turkey that you have in the States,'' said David Robertson, publisher of the Nilson Report, which tracks the industry. ''So you're not going to be able to ratchet down the level of bad credit like you can here.''
 After six years of torrid growth, Turkey's economy is cooling and political instability is deepening. With double-digit inflation and interest rates at 16.75 percent, maximum monthly interest charges on cards remain high. 
 ''This is a very volatile place,'' said Ali A. Ertenu, a banker who used to work for Yapi Kredi. ''With a global downturn, there could be trouble ahead for credit card customers.''
 Two years after the reforms, thoughts of suicide still occur to Nazli, a 26-year-old woman struggling to pay off charges her father accumulated on 10 credit cards. (To protect her family's reputation, she will not say how much the debts are, or give her last name.)
 Nazli negotiated repayment schedules with the banks. But after she missed a payment, one bank charged interest for the entire repayment period, erasing the progress she had made. ''The more you try to pay it back, the bigger the amount grows,'' she said.
 Until that burden is lifted, Nazli cannot even think of being married or taking a vacation. ''More than the fear of losing our property would be the shame, in front of our neighbors, of having a collection agent show up on our doorstep,'' she said.
 For Mr. Uzel, climbing out of debt was less about saving his name than reclaiming his life.
 Until 2005, he kept his head above water by taking cash advances on one card to pay the minimum on the other cards. But then Mr. Uzel married, which meant paying for a party for his bride's family.
 ''I was still trying to have a normal life,'' he said, as his 3-year-old daughter wriggled on his lap.
 Mr. Uzel finally paid off the banks in April with a loan from his brother-in-law. But a collection agency recently called, demanding $1,058 for unpaid electricity bills.
 The long ordeal strained his marriage and made him the butt of his friends' jokes. He says he is partly to blame, and swears that from now on, will only use cash.
 But Nazim Kaya, the consumer advocate, said American-style credit is here to stay. ''We can't blame American hegemony for this,'' he said. ''We should learn to use credit cards properly.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A NEW WAY OF LIFE: A credit card advertisement in Istanbul. The number of cards in Turkey has grown to 38 million from less than 10,000 three decades ago.
STREET CREDIT: An employee of Fortis Bank is ready to sell credit to pedestrians. Banks are aggressively seeking customers because they are finding the business so lucrative.
CURSE AND BLESSING: Halim Uzel, left, got his first credit card in 1999. He was making $4,360 a year, but by 2001, he had nearly $6,000 in unpaid balances on five cards. Suzan Sabanci Dincer, chairwoman of Akbank, says credit cards have helped Turkey become ''a society that has transformed itself.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LYNSEY ADDARIO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A18) CHART: WORLD DEBT: Credit card debt is not just an American phenomenon. Across the globe, countries including Turkey, Mexico, Malaysia and South Africa have adopted credit cards and the debt that goes with them. (Sources: Euromonitor International
 Bloomberg) (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER LAW (89%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); FAMILY (78%); RETAILERS (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); HISTORY (70%); LEGISLATION (66%); EXPORT TRADE (65%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); STOCK OFFERINGS (63%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: VISA INC (84%); MASTERCARD INC (84%)

TICKER: V (NYSE) (84%); MA (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (84%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (90%) TURKEY (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (92%); MEXICO (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



239 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: Run Your Car on Water? If Only

BYLINE: By JIM MOTAVALLI

 BODY:
HOW would you like to run your car on water, laugh at other people's $100 fill-ups and help solve global warming at the same time? Amazingly enough, online vendors say you can achieve all this with a set of plans you can buy for $65 on the Internet. 
 Or maybe the price is $105. It depends on where you purchase these documents ''they'' don't want you to see. 
 In many cases, though, what you're getting is a book that tells you how to build a simple onboard electrolyzer (one example appears to be made from a Ball fruit jar). The device uses electricity from a car's battery to convert plain water into hydrogen that is then added into the fuel system. Actually, the ads call the substance Brown's gas, a mixture of two parts hydrogen to one part oxygen. It must be true because it is ''as seen on TV.''
 According to vendor claims, this do-it-yourself system will turn your gas guzzler into a fuel miser. In the testimonials, one man says he gets 33 miles a gallon from his formerly 10-m.p.g. Chevrolet Camaro and another says his Mini (once 33 m.p.g.) now gets 72.
 The problem is there's little science to prove these electrolyzers actually do any good, let alone achieve incredible energy savings. 
 Therese Langer, transportation program director for the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy, pointed out that electrolysis ''uses a lot of electricity. On an energy balance basis, I find this not credible.'' 
 Joseph Romm, the author of ''The Hype About Hydrogen,'' is a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress and served as acting assistant secretary of energy during the Clinton years. ''The notion of adding hydrogen to an internal-combustion engine is not new,'' he said. ''And it isn't going to get you much extra mileage.'' 
 Highly questionable fuel-efficiency gadgets have been with us forever. But why the sudden proliferation of online offers? 
 ''With gasoline at these prices, every con artist comes out of the woodwork,'' Mr. Romm said. He added that offers promising fuel freedom ''appeal to the paranoid streak in America. Most people hate the oil companies and think they conspire to keep clean technology out of the marketplace.'' 
 There's that ''they'' again. Speaking of them, if you do build a water car, keep it under wraps. ''As soon as the word gets out, the feds will be at your door,'' says hydrogengarage.com. 
 But wait -- won't the goons be from the oil companies? As this was one of the few Web sites with a contact page, we sought clarification -- but heard nothing back.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY THE NEW YORK TIMES TONY CENICOLA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); WRITERS (70%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



240 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 3117 words

HEADLINE: A Tall, Cool Drink ofSewage?

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH ROYTE. 
Elizabeth Royte is the author of ''Bottlemania: How Water Went on Sale and Why We Bought It.''

 BODY:
Before I left New York for California, where I planned to visit a water-recycling plant, I mopped my kitchen floor. Afterward, I emptied the bucket of dirty water into the toilet and watched as the foamy mess swirled away. This was one of life's more mundane moments, to be sure. But with water infrastructure on my mind, I took an extra moment to contemplate my water's journey through city pipes to the wastewater-treatment plant, which separates solids and dumps the disinfected liquids into the ocean. 
 A day after mopping, I gazed balefully at my hotel toilet in Santa Ana, Calif., and contemplated an entirely new cycle. When you flush in Santa Ana, the waste makes its way to the sewage-treatment plant nearby in Fountain Valley, then sluices not to the ocean but to a plant that superfilters the liquid until it is cleaner than rainwater. The ''new'' water is then pumped 13 miles north and discharged into a small lake, where it percolates into the earth. Local utilities pump water from this aquifer and deliver it to the sinks and showers of 2.3 million customers. It is now drinking water. If you like the idea, you call it indirect potable reuse. If the idea revolts you, you call it toilet to tap. 
 Opened in January, the Orange County Groundwater Replenishment System is the largest of its type in the world. It cost $480 million to build, will cost $29 million a year to run and took more than a decade to get off the ground. The stumbling block was psychological, not architectural. An aversion to feces is nearly universal, and as critics of the process are keen to point out, getting sewage out of drinking water was one of the most important public health advances of the last 150 years.
 Still, Orange County forged ahead. It didn't appear to have a choice. Saltwater from the Pacific Ocean was entering the county's water supply, drawn in by overpumping from the groundwater basin, says Ron Wildermuth, who at the time we talked was the water district's spokesman. Moreover, population growth meant more wastewater, which meant building a second sewage pipe, five miles into the Pacific -- a $200 million proposition. Recycling the effluent solved the disposal problem and the saltwater problem in one fell swoop. A portion of the plant's filtered output is now injected into the ground near the coast, to act as a pressurized barrier against saltwater from the ocean. Factor in Southern California's near chronic drought, the county's projected growth (another 300,000 to 500,000 thirsty people by 2020) and the rising cost of importing water from the Colorado River and from Northern California (the county pays $530 per acre-foot of imported water, versus $520 per acre-foot of reclaimed water), and rebranding sewage as a valuable resource became a no-brainer. 
 With the demand for water growing, some aquifers dropping faster than they're replenished, snowpacks thinning and climate change predicted to make dry places even drier, water managers around the country, and the world, are contemplating similar schemes. Los Angeles and San Diego, which both rejected potable reuse, have raised the idea once again, as have, for the first time, DeKalb County, Ga., and Miami-Dade County, Fla.
 While Orange County planned and secured permits, public-relations experts went into overdrive, distributing slick educational brochures and videos and giving pizza parties. ''If there was a group, we talked to them,'' says Wildermuth, who recently left Orange County to help sell Los Angelenos on drinking purified waste. ''Historical societies, chambers of commerce, flower committees.'' The central message was health and safety, but the persuaders didn't skimp on buzz phrases like ''local control'' and ''independence from imported water.'' Last winter, the valve between the sewage plant and the drinking-water plant whooshed open, and a new era in California's water history began. 
 When I visited the plant, a sprawl of modern buildings behind a concrete wall, in March, Wildermuth, in a blue sport coat and bright tie, acted as my guide. ''Quick!'' he shouted at one point, mounting a ledge and clinging to the rail over a microfiltration bay. ''Over here!'' I clambered up just as its contents finished draining from the scum-crusted tank. The sudsy water, direct from the sewage-treatment plant, was the color of Guinness. ''This is the most exciting thing you'll see here, and I didn't want you to miss it,'' he said.
 Wildermuth went on to explain what we were looking at: inside each of 16 concrete bays hangs a rack of vertical tubes stuffed with 15,000 polypropylene fibers the thickness of dental floss. The fibers are stippled with holes 1/300th the size of a human hair. Pumps pull water into the fibers, leaving behind anything larger than 0.2 microns, stuff like bacteria, protozoa and the dread ''suspended solids.'' 
 The excitement and the bubbles were backwash: every 21 minutes, air is injected into the microfibers to blast them clean. The schmutz goes back to the sewage-treatment plant, and the cleaner water, now the color of chamomile tea, is pumped toward reverse-osmosis filters in another building. Before we saw that process, Wildermuth led me underground to inspect several enormous pumps and pipes large enough to crawl through. I noted that everything was clearly labeled and scrupulously clean. Then it dawned on me: reassurance was the reason we'd taken the detour. 
 We followed the pipes up to a sunlit, metal-clad building where the water, now dosed with an antiscalant and sulfuric acid to lower its pH, was forced at high pressure through hundreds of white tubes filled with tightly spiraled sheets of plastic membranes. Reverse osmosis, Wildermuth says, stops cold almost all nonwater molecules (things like salts, viruses and pharmaceuticals). The stuff that's removed is washed back to a pipe that discharges into the ocean. The filtered water, now known as permeate, moves one building over, where it's spiked with hydrogen peroxide, a disinfectant, and then circulated past 144 lamps emitting ultraviolet light. ''Destruction of compounds through photolysis,'' Wildermuth said, nodding. Anything that's alive in this water can no longer reproduce. 
 Strolling back through the campus, Wildermuth took me to a three-part demonstration sink with faucets streaming. The basin on the right contained reverse-osmosis backwash: it was molasses black, topped with a rainbow slick of oil. ''Don't touch,'' Wildermuth warned as I leaned in for a better look at the ocean-bound rejectamenta. The middle basin contained the chamomile water from microfiltration. And on the left was the stuff Orange County would eventually drink. It was clear and had no smell. 
 But even this suctioned, sieved and irradiated water wasn't quite set for sipping; it still needed to be decarbonized and dosed with lime, to raise its pH. Finally it would enter a massive purple pipe, which dives into the ground inside a nearby pump house and reappears 13 miles to the north, in Anaheim. There, the water would pour into Kraemer Basin, a man-made reservoir, where it would mix with the lake water and filter for six months through layers of sand and gravel hundreds of feet deep before utilities throughout the county pumped it into taps.
 The reservoir is a prosaic ending for a substance that's been through the glitziest of technological wringers, transformed from sewage to drinking water only to be humbly redeposited into the earth. This final filtering step isn't necessary, strictly speaking, but our psyches seem to demand it. 
 To understand the basics of contemporary water infrastructure is to acknowledge that most American tap water has had some contact with treated sewage. Our wastewater-treatment plants discharge into streams that feed rivers from which other cities suck water for drinking. By the time New Orleans residents drink the Mississippi, the water has been in and out of more than a dozen cities; more than 200 communities, including Las Vegas, discharge treated wastewater into the Colorado River. That's the good news. After heavy rains, many cities discharge untreated sewage directly into waterways -- more than 860 billion gallons of it a year, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. However -- and this is where we can take solace -- the sewage is massively diluted, time and sunlight help to break down its components and drinking-water plants filter and disinfect the water before it reaches our taps. The E.P.A. requires utilities to monitor pathogens, and there hasn't been a major waterborne-disease outbreak in this country since 1993. (Though there have been 85 smaller outbreaks between 2001 and 2006.)
 So confident are engineers of so-called advanced treatment technologies that several communities have been discharging highly treated wastewater directly into reservoirs for years. Singapore mixes 1 percent treated wastewater with 99 percent fresh water in its reservoirs. (In Orange County, the final product will contain 17 percent recycled water.) Residents of Windhoek, Namibia, one of the driest places on earth, drink 100 percent treated wastewater. For 30 years, the Upper Occoquan Sewage Authority, in Virginia, has been mixing recycled wastewater with fresh water in a reservoir and serving it to more than a million people. Still, no system produces as much recycled water as Orange County (currently 70 million gallons a day, going up to 85 million by 2011), and none inserts as many physical and chemical barriers between toilet and tap.
 Environmentalists, river advocates and California surfers -- the sort of people who harbor few illusions about the purity of our rivers and oceans -- generally favor water recycling. It beats importing water on both economic and environmental grounds (about a fifth of California's energy is used to move water from north to south). ''The days are over when we can consider wastewater a liability,'' says Peter Gleick, president of the Pacific Institute, an environmental research group in Oakland. ''It's an asset. And that means figuring out how best to use it.'' 
 As we deplete the earth's nonrenewable resources, like oil and metals, the one-way trip from raw material to disposed and forgotten waste makes less and less sense. Already we recycle aluminum to avoid mining, compost organic material to avoid generating methane in landfills and turn plastic into lumber. As it becomes more valuable, water will be no different. 
 ''We have to treat all waste as a resource,'' Conner Everts, executive director of the Southern California Watershed Alliance, says. ''Our water source, hundreds of miles away, is drying up. If the population is growing, what are our options?''
 Water conservation could take us a long way, as would lower water subsidies for farmers. But sooner or later, stressed-out utility managers come back to the same idea: returning wastewater to the tap. 
 The process isn't risk-free. Some scientists are concerned that dangerous compounds or undetectable viruses will escape the multiple physical and chemical filters at the plant. And others suggest that the potential for human error or mechanical failure -- clogged filters or torn membranes that let pathogens through, for example -- is too great to risk something as basic to public health as drinking water. 
 Recycled water should be used only as nondrinking water, says Philip Singer, the Daniel Okun Distinguished Professor of Environmental Engineering at the University of North Carolina. ''It may contain trace amounts of contaminants. Reverse osmosis and UV disinfection are very good, but there are still uncertainties.''
 And then there are those whose first, and final, reaction is ''yuck.'' 
 ''Why the hell do we have to drink our own sewage?'' asks Muriel Watson, a retired schoolteacher who sat on a California water-reuse task force and founded the Revolting Grandmas to fight potable reuse. She toured the Orange County plant but came away unsatisfied. ''It's not the sun and the sky and a roaring river crashing into rocks'' -- nature's way of purifying water. ''It's just equipment.'' 
 The Santa Ana River forms in the San Bernardino Mountains and flows southwest through Riverside and then Orange counties to the sea, the largest coastal stream in Southern California. But that's not saying much: in the summer, the Santa Ana's flow is nearly 100 percent wastewater. The river's base flow -- what enters the channel from runoff, rain and wastewater-treatment plants -- is increasing. Not only is more effluent entering the river, a consequence of population growth, but as the county develops and paves more surfaces, rainwater runs off the earth faster, sluicing into the river channel before it can sink into the earth and replenish aquifers. 
 To capture and clean that water, the Orange County Water District has gone into hyper-beaver mode on the river. Twenty miles upstream from Anaheim, the water district has created the Prado Wetlands. It's a lovely place, lush with willow and mule fat, busy with butterflies and, over the course of the year, 250 species of birds. Moving through a series of rectangular ponds, river water filters slowly through thickets of cattails and bulrushes meant to extract excess nitrate from upstream dairy farms and sewage-treatment plants. Returned to the main channel, the water wends around T- and L-shaped berms that slow the water and maximize its contact with the river bottom. Gates and sluiceways then shunt the water into nine man-made ponds and pits. The goal is to get more water into the county's groundwater basin, a 350-square-mile, 1,500-foot-deep bathtub of sand and gravel layers, which act as natural scrubbers. The system upriver -- using gravity and gravel -- and the system in Fountain Valley -- in tanks and tubes -- both achieve the same goal. Sort of.
 It's one of the many pardoxes of indirect potable reuse that the water leaving the plant in Fountain Valley is far cleaner than the water that it mingles with. Yes, the water entering the sewage-treatment plant in Fountain Valley is 100 percent wastewater and has a T.D.S. -- a measure of water purity, T.D.S. stands for total dissolved solids and refers to the amount of trace elements in the water -- of 1,000 parts per million. But after microfiltration and reverse osmosis, the T.D.S. is down to 30. (Poland Spring water has a T.D.S. of between 35 and 46.) By contrast, the ''raw'' water in the Anaheim basins has a T.D.S. of 600. 
 If everything in the Fountain Valley plant is in perfect working order, its finished water will contain no detectable levels of bacteria, pharmaceuticals or agricultural and industrial chemicals. The same can be said of very few water sources in this country. But once the Fountain Valley water mingles with the county's other sources, its purity goes downhill. Filtering it through sand and gravel removes some contaminants, but it also adds bacteria (not necessarily harmful, and local utilities will eventually knock them out them with chlorine) and possibly pharmaceuticals. 
 In other words, nature messes up the expensively reclaimed water. So why stick it back into the ground? ''We do it for psychological reasons,'' says Adam Hutchinson, director of recharge operations for the water district. ''In the future, people will laugh at us for putting it back in, instead of just drinking it.''
 Psychologists and marketers have spent a lot of time trying to figure out what makes a product, or a process, seem natural. Obviously, framing the issue properlyis the key to acceptance. ''If people connect the history of their water to contamination, you'll get a disgust response no matter how you treat that water in between,'' says Brent Haddad, an associate professor of environmental studies at the University of California at Santa Cruz. ''But if you enable people to frame out that history by telling them, for example, that 'the clean water has been separated from the polluted water,' they no longer make that connection.'' We abridge history all the time, Haddad adds. ''Think of the restaurant fork that was in the mouth of someone with a contagious disease, the pillow that was underneath people doing private adult things in a hotel bedroom. If you think of it that way, the intermediate steps, like washing with hot water, don't matter.'' 
 All water on earth is recycled: the same drops that misted Devonian ferns and dripped from the fur of woolly mammoths are watering us today. From evaporation to condensation and precipitation, the cycle goes on and on. But in the planet's drier regions, where the population continues to rise, we can expect the time between use and reuse to grow ever shorter, with purification, pipes and pumps standing in for natural processes. Instead of sand and gravel filtering our drinking water, microfibers and membranes will do the job; instead of sunlight knocking out parasites, we'll plug in the UV lamps. 
 You could argue that in coming to terms with wastewater as a resource, we'll take better care of our water. At long last, the ''everything is connected'' message, the bedrock of the environmental movement, will hit home. In this view, once a community is forced to process and drink its toilet water, those who must drink it will rise up and change their ways. Floor moppers will switch to biodegradable cleaning products. Industry will use nontoxic material. Factory farms will cut their use of antibiotics. Maybe we'll even stop building homes in the desert.
 But these situations are not very likely. No one wants to think too hard about where our water comes from. It's more likely that the virtuosity of water technology will let polluters off the hook: why bother to reduce noxious discharges if the treatment plant can remove just about anything? The technology, far from making us aware of the consequences of our behavior, may give us license to continue doing what we've always done.
 The recycled water coming out of the sink at the Fountain Valley plant looked good enough to drink. Wildermuth didn't press me to taste it, but I was eager for a sample -- to satisfy my curiosity, and to be polite. I filled a plastic cup and took a sip. The water tasted fine, if a little dry; I'm used to something with more minerals. It did cross my mind that any potential health issues from drinking so-far undetectable levels of contaminants would be cumulative and take decades to manifest.
 Then I reminded myself: no naturally occurring water on earth is absolutely pure. And most everything that's in Orange County's reclaimed water is in most cities' drinking water anyway.
 It was hot, my throat was parched, and I asked for a refill. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTO ILLUSTRATIONS BY DWIGHT ESCHLIMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (90%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (89%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (89%); WATER QUALITY (89%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (89%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); POPULATION GROWTH (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



241 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 218 words

HEADLINE: Christina Tennyson, Richard Naddeo

 BODY:
Dr. Christina Ann Tennyson and Richard John Naddeo were married on Saturday at St. Francis de Sales Church in Belle Harbor, Queens. The Rev. John Wtulich, a Roman Catholic priest and an associate pastor at the church, performed the ceremony. 
 The bride, 33, is keeping her name. A gastroenterologist, she will begin working at NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia hospital in Manhattan next month. Until June she was a gastroenterology fellow at Mount Sinai School of Medicine, also in Manhattan. 
 She graduated from William & Mary and received a medical degree from New York University. She is the daughter of Nancy T. Tennyson and Jack E. Tennyson of Belle Harbor. Her father is the deputy director of audit services for the New York City Administration for Children's Services in Manhattan. Her mother teaches mathematics at Stella Maris High School in Rockaway Park, Queens.
 The bridegroom, 34, is a counsel for the New York City Economic Development Corporation and works in Manhattan. 
 He graduated from the University of Chicago, from which he also received a Master of Arts degree in social sciences. He received a law degree from the University of Pennsylvania. He is the son of Santina and Vincent Naddeo of Brooklyn. His father is a money manager for Sun Equity, an investment firm in Manhattan. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TWELFTH NIGHT PHOTOGRAPHY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); RELIGION (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); CITIES (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); CHILD WELFARE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



242 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; CHEERING SECTION; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Another 'Ultimate Five-Ring Circus'

BYLINE: By VINCENT M. MALLOZZI. 
E-mail: cheers@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Everen T. Brown is trying to break his Olympic record.
 ''My goal is to see 100 events,'' said Brown, a 48-year-old photographer from Salt Lake City who is attending his 10th Olympics. 
 ''Any fan who can pull that off deserves a gold medal.'' 
 Brown and his 23-year-old nephew, Matthew Kallio, are in Beijing for what Brown calls ''the ultimate five-ring circus.'' Brown, who has taken Kallio to six Olympics, secured tickets to 85 events before heading to China last month. 
 ''As a child who grew up watching ABC's 'Wide World of Sports,' I just knew someday that I would have to attend some of the greatest sports events in the world personally,'' Brown said. ''My first Olympiad was in Los Angeles in 1984. The opening ceremonies were incredible, and I was hooked.''
 Brown has also attended the Games in Calgary (1988), Barcelona (1992), Atlanta (1996), Nagano (1998), Sydney (2000), Salt Lake City (2002) Athens (2004) and Turin (2006). 
 ''Each set of Olympics holds a different level of excitement,'' he said. ''The best part of every one of them is starting up conversations with fans from all over the world and sharing stories about our favorite athletes and our favorite Olympic moments.'' 
 Brown was a torch-bearer for the Sydney and Salt Lake Games, and his Olympic journeys will have covered more than 100,000 miles by the time he returns from Beijing. Brown's favorite sports are beach volleyball and ice hockey.
 ''My uncle has an incredible passion for the Olympics, and a lot of that passion has rubbed off on me throughout the years,'' said Kallio, a student at Salt Lake Community College. ''You have to live it to understand the rush of adrenaline that comes from going to these events.''
 Brown said he bought tickets from agents in the United States.
 ''The tickets in Beijing are pegged to the local economy,'' averaging $7 to $14 each, he said. ''They are the cheapest I've seen since Los Angeles.''
 As a photographer, Brown said he was inspired by his first Olympics.
 ''At the opening ceremonies in Los Angeles, the card stunt, with spectators holding cards that formed the flags of the Olympic countries, motivated me to get my 360-degree panoramic camera,'' he said. ''No other camera could capture such an event.''
 In Calgary, that camera caught spectators in T-shirts and shorts.
 ''This was the Winter Olympics that was in need of winter weather,'' Brown said. ''Everything was melting due to the Chinook winds, and events were postponed.'' 
 In Barcelona, Brown photographed Kallio, then 7, trading pins at his first Olympics. In Atlanta, he captured images of the debut of beach volleyball as an Olympic sport.
 ''In Atlanta, we discovered tickets being sold on the street at less than face value,'' Brown said. ''So we decided to extend our stay and attend one of every summer Olympic sport.''
 As a result, they watched 65 events, including six in one day, their personal records. 
 ''It was an exhausting schedule,'' Brown said.
 Nagano, he added, was equally exhausting.
 ''No rooms were available, as it is a very small town,'' Brown said. ''So we bought a bullet train pass and traveled each day from Tokyo,'' about an hour and a half from Nagano. 
 On the last night, they stayed in Nagano for the closing ceremony, which Brown recalled as ''the coldest weather I have ever been in.''
 Brown did not need accommodations for the Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, but he got them anyway.
 ''I have friends who were coming for the Games but could not make the first six days, so they give me their hotel rooms,'' he said. ''I was in a first-class hotel for the first five nights in my own hometown. It was nice being pampered for those days.''
 The best part of Athens, Brown said, was Michael Phelps, who won eight swimming medals. In Turin, the snowboarding was enjoyable and the crowds were fun, Brown said. But ''this was a city that was not happy to see the Games invade,'' he added. ''The locals just did not get it.'' 
 Throughout the years, Brown has collected Olympic memorabilia, including the two torches he carried and a 150-foot banner from the Atlanta swimming events. 
 ''I'm still single,'' he said, ''so I can still get away with doing all of this crazy stuff.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Everen T. Brown, right, and his nephew, Matthew Kallio, displaying Olympic souvenirs. They are attending their sixth Olympics together. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM SMART FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); WINTER OLYMPICS (89%); ICE HOCKEY (78%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); TICKET SALES (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); TICKET AGENCIES (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); UTAH, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); GEORGIA, USA (58%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



243 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: His Dark Material

BYLINE: By BRUCE HANDY. 
Bruce Handy, a frequent contributor to the Book Review, is a writer and deputy editor at Vanity Fair.

 BODY:
THE NIGHT OF THE GUN 
 A Reporter Investigates the Darkest Story of His Life. His Own. 
 By David Carr. 
 Illustrated. 385 pp. Simon & Schuster. $26. 
 Before David Carr was the widely read media columnist for The New York Times's Monday business section, he was a cokehead and an alcoholic. He's now written a memoir about how he got from there to here, only he didn't just write it -- he also reported it, as best he could. To take one example: What really happened that night after a wedding when Carr yanked his buddy Ralph headfirst out of a town car and tossed him into a flower bed, and the subsequent hotel room brawl had to be broken up by security? ''I don't know,'' Ralph verbally shrugs when Carr puts the question to him two decades later. ''You're asking one guy who is drunk and stoned if his memory matches the other guy's who's drunk and stoned.'' In that conundrum lie both the genius and a primary flaw of this brave, heartfelt, often funny, often frustrating book. 
 As you may know -- as you definitely know if you work someplace like Conde Nast or Viacom -- Carr is also a culture reporter and the keeper of The Times's Carpetbagger blog, covering the annual Oscar race with an eye at once eager and jaundiced, which is pretty much the beau ideal for a journalist. He's an inventive reporter (meaning he digs up offbeat stories and has an original eye for detail, not that he's a fabulist), and his prose has a cocky zest that makes you think he loves his job. 
 He brings that same joie de travailler to the grimmer task of covering his own life. Back in the 1980s, when he was a reporter for an alternative weekly in Minneapolis and later for a local business monthly, Carr had a cocaine problem that spiraled downward from snorting to smoking to injecting. He also drank too much, did some low-level dealing and was arrested innumerable times. He did worse things, too, like beating up girlfriends and fathering twin girls whom he and the mother were in no way prepared to take care of. But as you'd guess from the fact that he's still alive and making money legally, things got better: after a few false starts he finally stuck with rehab, got his life together, raised his girls as a single dad, saw his career take off, found a good woman to marry and have another daughter with, started drinking again, committed anew to sobriety and wrote this book.
 In broad strokes this isn't a new or unique story, as readers of James Frey, Augusten Burroughs, Caroline Knapp and the tabloids know, and as Carr does himself: ''Beyond the grime that is bound to accrue from a trip through the gutters of one's past, what is the value in one more addiction memoir to me or anyone else?'' For Carr, what justified its writing is that, as the title implies, he has taken on the truth of his own story the way he would any other: buttressing his memories -- or countering them, as the case may be -- with police reports, legal documents, medical records and, most important, interviews he taped with 60 friends, family members, fellow cokeheads and dealers. ''It would prove to be an enlightening and sickening enterprise,'' Carr writes, ''a new frontier in the annals of self-involvement. I would show up at the doorsteps of people I had not seen in two decades and ask them to explain myself to me.'' As a writer and thus a fellow narcissist, I can only say: ''Why didn't I think of that?''
 The book gets its title from an evening gone even more wrong than most, when Carr remembers being in such a rage that a close friend drew a gun on him; after reporting the incident out, he realizes to his mortification that it was he, more crazed than he knew, who drew the gun on his friend. ''If I can't tell a true story about one of the worst days of my life,'' he asks, ''what about the rest of those days, that life, this story?'' 
 But to the extent that ''The Night of the Gun'' means to be a meditation on the inherent unreliability of memory and the way, more deliberately, we reweave our messy lives into palatable histories, the insights will be familiar to anyone who has seen ''Rashomon'' or committed sins of omission in a job interview. And as epic bender runs into epic bender, as a convertible winds up in a swamp during one road trip and lines of coke are snorted off the hood of a truck on another, details blur for the reader, too. I don't know about you, but for me, stories about other people's partying wear thin real quick. Unless maybe the other people are Led Zeppelin. (I read the opening chapters of this book on a Long Island Rail Road car full of Fire Islanders loudly planning their weekend Jell-O-shot regimens -- Sensurround!)
 A deeper problem with the book is that the people in Carr's life, and Carr himself, come alive only in fits and starts. This may be due in part to Carr's scrupulousness as a writer and reporter; in the same way that a bad relationship can look better in the rearview mirror, the absence of novelistic license here makes you realize why ''surgically enhanced'' nonfiction is rewarded on the best-seller list. I prefer nonfiction to be true, too, but let's grant that writers with a bent more literary than literal do have a knack for creating lively characters and vibrant scenes.
 I can't help thinking that another reason for the book's flatness may be addiction itself. For one thing, a junkie's existence, consumed with copping, is monotonous by definition, life in a hamster cage writ larger and more squalid. Second, addiction is of course a disease, not a character trait or a psychological flaw, and it's a disease that consumes its host -- a body and soul snatcher or, in Carr's metaphor, something ''more like possession, a death grip from Satan that requires supernatural intervention.'' 
 Addicts still have psyches, though, and Carr seems either unwilling or uninterested in exploring his and others' -- and this to me is the book's Achilles' heel. Of his first, nonsober marriage, he writes, ''No one can really explain why I married her, including me.'' Of a subsequent and sometimes violent relationship, he notes, ''part of the reason I was so frantic, so brutal, was that I was obsessed with her.'' That's almost a tautology. And what's with hitting women? Carr presents this as another aspect of his coke-fueled mania, but plenty of crackheads don't smack their wives and girlfriends. Where does Carr's anger come from? He deplores his behavior but he doesn't bore into it. His father, we learn in passing, had his own problems with alcohol, as did some of Carr's siblings. How did this affect Carr growing up? Does he ever curse or at least resent his inheritance? He doesn't say. Maybe he chalks it all up to nature, to original sin. Or maybe he's just discreet, which is laudable. But then, don't write a memoir. 
 No reader will doubt the struggle behind Carr's efforts to get and stay sober, or fail to feel joy when he rights himself, though in the telling this part of the book feels pat. (For writers, happy is hard.) What Carr excels at, where his gifts as a journalist shine, is explaining how an addict's life works, the economics of it, the ad-hoc social web, the quotidian feel of the thing:
 ''Mornings for an addict involve waking up in a room where everything implicates him,'' Carr writes. ''There is the tipped-over bottle, the smashed phone, the bright midday light coming through the rip in the shade that says another day has started without you. Drunks and addicts tend to build nests out of the detritus of their misbegotten lives.
 ''It is that ecosystem, all there for the inventorying within 20 seconds of waking, which tends to make addiction a serial matter. Apart from the progression of the disease, if you wake up in that kind of hell, you might start looking for something to take the edge off ... to help you reframe your little disaster area. Hmmm, just a second here. A little hair of the dog. Yep. Now, that's better. Everything is new again.'' 
 That's a great passage, an essay in urban typology worthy of Balzac at his keenest (and least windy). I just wish I had a better sense of what being a crackhead felt like specifically for Carr. As a nonaddict, I honor his sobriety, to use the current political formulation; but I also wish he had revealed more of his tortured, tenacious soul.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (77%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (75%); COCAINE (61%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (60%); SINGLE PARENTS (60%); ARRESTS (50%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); VIACOM INC (55%)

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

TITLE: Night of the Gun, The (Book)>; Night of the Gun, The (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



244 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SLIPSTREAM; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: Olympics Online, With A Hook

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
CAN the leopard shed his spots?
 This month, Microsoft is offering Web surfers in the United States a seductive viewing treat. In conjunction with NBC, the software publisher is offering thousands of hours of free video direct from the Olympics in Beijing. 
 The service is being hailed as a bold experiment in delivering on the original promise of the World Wide Web. For the first time, it will be possible to watch specific events on demand as well as to watch many of the less popular sporting events like cycling and race walking, which in the past have received scant attention in mainstream television coverage of the games. 
 But there's a catch. 
 To view the video, it will be necessary to download a Microsoft Web browser software component based on a new proprietary technology, Silverlight, that is intended to make it possible to display interactive animations, graphics, audio and video, all within a fixed window inside a Web browser display.
 The Silverlight technology will allow streaming of video and interactive applications like video games to both Macintosh and Windows PC users. (For example, the new Netflix streaming service is based on Silverlight.) A version for Linux users is available via a joint project with Novell, and a mobile version will be available in the future on Windows Mobile and Nokia smartphones.
 Microsoft executives say Silverlight will ''light up the Web'' with multimedia content. 
 But for many industry executives who compete with Microsoft, the world's largest software company, the Silverlight strategy recalls a federal antitrust case in which Microsoft was found guilty of using its market muscle to stifle competition from the Web. 
 By bundling Internet Explorer with the Windows operating system, Microsoft destroyed Netscape Communications, Explorer's main competitor. But it also incurred the wrath of the Justice Department and embroiled itself in the bitter antitrust lawsuit.
 Now Microsoft is taking on another rival, Adobe, whose Flash media player is by far the dominant technology for streaming interactive content and video. The product from Adobe, based in San Jose, Calif., is on roughly 99 percent of computers connected to the Internet, based in large part on the popularity of YouTube, owned by Google; YouTube uses the Flash standard to stream videos. Windows Media, from Microsoft, and Quicktime, from Apple, trail behind.
 ''Silverlight is obviously mostly about Flash and competing with Adobe,'' said John Lilly, C.E.O. of the Mozilla Corporation, the developer of the open-source Firefox browser. 
 Others take a darker view of Microsoft's intentions and argue that Silverlight is simply a rehash of the company's 1990s-era ''embrace and extend'' strategy for pre-empting Web competition.
 ''They're still playing the same games,'' said Michael R. Nelson, professor of Internet studies at Georgetown University. ''It's a way to lock up the content, and it's not enabling as much innovation as we would like to see.''
 That perception that the software publisher is still looking for ways to gain proprietary advantage was underscored late last year in a filing by seven states and the District of Columbia that asked a federal court to extend the set of restrictions under which Microsoft has been operating as a result of the antitrust lawsuit.
 The lawyers for the states argued that if Microsoft were to favor Silverlight in the next version of its operating system -- as it tried to favor its desktop search program in Vista -- it would give the company a significant advantage in competing against Adobe.
 Open systems like the Linux operating system and standard protocols, like HTTP, which is the basis for the World Wide Web, have become a growing economic force. In some cases, standards complement proprietary systems. In others, they compete with those technologies.
 A Microsoft executive defended the company's strategy in developing Silverlight, saying the company was committed to making its products compatible with systems based on common standards. 
 ''It's a Catch-22 situation,'' said Brian Goldfarb, who oversees several products, including Silverlight, at Microsoft. He said the company believes that strictly adhering to standards makes it difficult, if not impossible, to innovate. 
 ''Standards are not the only way to be open,'' Mr. Goldfarb said. Moreover, he noted that Microsoft increasingly does participate in standards groups. ''One of the areas where we don't get a lot of credit is for Ajax,'' a technology that he said lies at the foundation of the modern Web, known as Web 2.0.
 At the same time, he acknowledged the proprietary limitations of Silverlight. Microsoft is the only vendor selling software needed to produce interactive and video content for Silverlight. He also acknowledged that the company also has no plans to make the digital rights-management technology in Silverlight, known as PlayReady, available on servers other than Microsoft's.
 Microsoft faces significant challenges in unseating Flash, which will be used to stream Olympics video in many other countries, including China, Japan and Australia. According to Kevin Lynch, Adobe's chief technology officer, there is a major philosophical difference between the two companies.
 ''The question is, are you trying to advantage one particular operating system?'' he said, pointing to Microsoft's decision to reserve certain features like 3-D effects and downloading for the company's Windows Vista operating system.
 THERE is another viewpoint on the Adobe vs. Microsoft vs. Apple war, one that argues that the giant companies are fighting the last war rather than the coming one.
 Mr. Lilly, for example, says he believes that what the Internet scholar Jonathan Zittrain has described as the ''generative Web'' -- systems that make it increasingly simple for almost anyone to become a multimedia Web publisher -- will increasingly define a third route for developing the future of the Web.
 For example, later this year, the next version of the Firefox browser, which now commands roughly 20 percent of the market, will be introduced with an open-source video-streaming technology, known as Ogg Theora, intended to make video a seamlessly integrated part of the Web experience. 
 (Theora, for those who remember, was a character in the 1980s ''Max Headroom'' science fiction television series.)
 The message is that in the future, content won't come from the giant networks but instead will come from everywhere. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NBC will stream thousands of hours of Olympics video online. To view it, a Microsoft Web browser software component must first be downloaded. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (91%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); STREAMING MEDIA (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); INTERNET BROWSERS (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (86%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (78%); ANIMATION (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (75%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (74%); TOYS & GAMES (74%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); CYCLING (72%); SPORTS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%); COMPUTER GAMES (69%); SMARTPHONES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%); LITIGATION (50%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); ADOBE SYSTEMS INC (85%); NOVELL INC (58%); GOOGLE INC (58%); NETFLIX INC (55%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); ADBE (NASDAQ) (85%); ADB (FRA) (85%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (55%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (52%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



245 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; HUNTS POINT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: That's Yesterday's News, Residents Tell Wiki

BYLINE: By KATHERINE BINDLEY

 BODY:
IF you would like to learn about Hunts Point, Josephine Infante, the executive director and founder of the Hunts Point Economic Development Corporation, would advise you to steer clear of Wikipedia. 
 ''This whole thing is suspect,'' Ms. Infante said one recent afternoon in her office while holding printed copies of the latest entry on the neighborhood in the online encyclopedia. 
 During the past six months, Ms. Infante said, information that paints a depressing picture of the South Bronx area has been posted on the user-built Web site, even as the area has long struggled to shed its seedy, crime-ridden image. 
 ''I really have a problem with this,'' she said, pointing to a part of the posting that said many men in the community have been arrested at some point in their lives. ''I don't know this to be true,'' she said. 
 Ms. Infante also cited passages describing Hunts Point as one of the most dangerous areas in the city and the nation, and as home to many drug addicts. Those assertions, she said, are many years out of date.
 The number of reported felonies in the 41st Precinct, which covers Hunts Point, is the lowest of any precinct in the South Bronx, according to the New York Police Department's Web site, which noted that crime in the 41st Precinct has dropped nearly 30 percent in the past decade.
 Jay Walsh, a spokesman for Wikimedia Foundation, the parent organization of Wikipedia, said that the site aimed to be neutral, but he added that the foundation did not censor information. ''The focus is on making the article higher quality,'' Mr. Walsh said. 
 Ms. Infante has edited information on the site about her own nonprofit organization a handful of times, but she has refrained from fixing other parts of the entry. ''It should be an entire community that writes,'' she said.
 John Robert, the district manager of the Hunts Point community board, acknowledged that he had not been aware of some of the information on the site until a reporter brought them to his attention. ''Not true, not true,'' he said, taking issue with details about the prevalence of incarceration, gangs and drugs. 
 Mr. Robert has been in touch with Wikipedia about including an external link to the community board's Web site so that readers could have access to more facts about Hunts Point.
 ''We're making efforts to get our official version of what this community is like,'' he said. But he said that this could be a challenge because the Wikipedia site is constantly being updated. ''There's not much we can do with Wikipedia because it is what it is,'' he said, ''a people's encyclopedia.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); WEB SITES (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FELONIES (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (75%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ARRESTS (72%); POLICE FORCES (71%)

COMPANY: WIKIMEDIA FOUNDATION INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



246 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; BROWSING BOOKS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: Editor's Choice Recent books of particular interest

 BODY:
THE DARK SIDE: The Inside Story of How the War on Terror Turned Into a War on American Ideals, by Jane Mayer. (Doubleday, $27.50.) A New Yorker writer recounts the emergence of the widespread use of torture as a central tool in the fight against terrorism. 
 THE THREE OF US: A Family Story, by Julia Blackburn. (Pantheon, $26.) Searingly and unflinchingly, Blackburn describes an appalling upbringing at the hands of her catastrophically unfit parents. 
 ALIVE IN NECROPOLIS, by Doug Dorst. (Riverhead, $25.95.) Dorst's protagonist is a rookie cop patrolling a city of cemeteries, where almost all the living are haunted by one figurative ghost or another. 
 IRON FISTS: Branding the 20th-Century Totalitarian State, by Steven Heller. (Phaidon, $90.) In a dazzlingly illustrated study, the Book Review's former art director compares modern corporate-branding strategies with the propaganda of Hitler, Stalin, Mao and others. 
 CAN YOU EVER FORGIVE ME? Memoirs of a Literary Forger, by Lee Israel. (Simon & Schuster, $19.95.) How a well-regarded biographer sold fake letters from luminaries after hitting a midlife ''rough patch.'' 
 THE HOUSE ON FIRST STREET: My New Orleans Story, by Julia Reed. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $23.95.) Reed bought a historic but run-down mansion in the city a year before Hurricane Katrina struck. 
 BAD MONEY: Reckless Finance, Failed Politics, and the Global Crisis of American Capitalism, by Kevin Phillips. (Viking, $25.95.) A monomaniacal focus on finance is hurting us in the global economy, Phillips argues. 
 THE STORY OF EDGAR SAWTELLE, by David Wroblewski. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $25.95.) This modern twist on ''Hamlet'' involves a dog-breeding family. 
 BLACK AND WHITE AND DEAD ALL OVER, by John Darnton. (Knopf, $24.95.) A former Times reporter sets his murder mystery at a big-city paper.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); TERRORISM (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); LITERATURE (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); CEMETERIES (70%); COMPANY STRATEGY (69%); BRANDING (69%); DOGS (68%); COUNTERFEITING (67%); HURRICANE KATRINA (65%); GLOBALIZATION (64%); KENNELS & PET BREEDERS (50%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



247 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; PRESERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: Plan for Highlands Has Lots of Critics

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

DATELINE: CHESTER TOWNSHIP 

 BODY:
 DEPENDING on whom you talk to, the Highlands Act and its proposed operating plan are either:
 A far-sighted effort to preserve a mountainous part of the state from suburban sprawl and ensure a supply of clean drinking water for over half the state's population, or:
 A heavy-handed confiscation of the development rights of rural property owners by urbanites with political power.
 In the next few weeks, Gov. Jon S. Corzine is to decide whether to accept a carefully crafted compromise on the operating rules for the Highlands legislation adopted four years ago or heed the pleas of a coalition of environmental groups to send it back for reconsideration. His office said the 400-page plan was under a review that would include a study of an apparent conflict between the Highlands plan and recent state legislation requiring affordable housing. 
 At stake is what will happen in the Highlands, an 860,000-acre swath in the northern and western parts of the state that has remained largely rural and agricultural, despite New Jersey's ranking as the most densely populated state in the nation.
 Although the technical arguments focus on water supplies and quality, the region is studded with streams and lakes as well as a part of the Appalachian Trail and is a playground second only to the Jersey Shore. ''The Highlands are our Yosemite, our Yellowstone,'' said Jeff Tittel, the executive director of the New Jersey Sierra Club, who argues that the operating plan does not do enough to protect the environment.
 Kurt Alstede, a farmer in Chester Township, about 45 miles west of New York, serves on the Highlands Council, and voted against the operating plan. ''Nobody around here asked to be saved by Trenton,'' Mr. Alstede said, adding that he opposed the plan because it did not include funding to compensate landowners for lost development rights.
 He said most legislators are from urban areas and have little understanding of life and economics in rural areas. ''In essence, we have become a colony,'' Mr. Alstede said. ''Those of us in rural areas have seen our rights taken away.'' 
 Interest in preserving the Highlands goes back as far as 1907, when a government commission issued a report about the purity of water in the region. Former Gov. James E. McGreevey made preservation of the Highlands a priority of his administration, and the act was passed in 2004, with a provision that the details were to be worked out by the Highlands Council and its staff.
 The operating plan, which would restrict development in the region, was adopted by the council on July 17 in a 9-to-5 vote. Under existing zoning laws, according to the council, 47,600 units of housing could be built in the region. If all the towns were to comply with the operating plan, that would be reduced to 12,300 units, the council said, and commercial development would be reduced to 19.2 million square feet from 108 million square feet.
 These numbers represent the extremes, because the Highlands is divided roughly in half into what are known as the preservation and the planning areas, and the operating plan is to be mandatory in the preservation area but optional in the planning areas.
 Eileen Swan, executive director of the Highlands Council, said that many municipalities have land in both areas and that the council plans to use consultation and financial incentives to see that local zoning plans adhere to the preservation area standard. 
 ''Our goal is to maintain the beauty of the area, and we have dedicated funds for planning,'' Ms. Swan said. ''We have $21 million to work with the towns.''
 Despite the restrictions on growth, which angered builders and landowners, environmental activists also objected to the operating plan. The plan ''is flushing a necessary act's mandates down the toilet with polluted Highlands water,'' said Julia Somers, executive director of the New Jersey Highlands Coalition.
 Mr. Tittel said the amount of development allowed by the operating plan would cause increased contamination of water in the region, which he called ''a clear violation'' of the 2004 law, officially called the Highlands Water Protection and Planning Act. He noted that the Highlands not only supply water to households but also serve as an important water source for the state's pharmaceutical, petrochemical and tourist industries. ''Highlands waters feed a $100 billion industry in the state,'' he said.
 In a letter to Governor Corzine, the environmental groups said the current slump in housing prices and the decline in housing development has created ''a window of opportunity'' to strengthen the operating plan. By blocking the proposed plan, ''inappropriate development will not take place, but rather you will allow for future development that will be protective of natural resources.''
 Environmentalists have also complained that designating only 19,000 acres of the region as a Special Environmental Zone where building would not be allowed is inadequate and that 20 percent of the region's farmland would be lost to development. ''The policies of the plan should require farmland protection,'' the letter said, not development.
 But Mr. Alstede sees land sales from a different perspective. He said selling a farm to developers is often the only alternative for elderly farmers with no heirs interested in agriculture.
 ''If a farmer wants to retire, the way to do it is to sell the farm,'' said Mr. Alstede, who said his own farm is protected from development. ''But now he can't sell the land for development. He can't get out.''
 John Weingart, chairman of the Highlands Council and associate director of the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers, said money was certainly an issue.
 ''We need more funds for land acquisition,'' Mr. Weingart said, adding that one suggestion was to impose a tax on users of the region's water. Others have discussed a complex system of trading development rights.
 He said the complaints from environmental groups came late in a four-year effort to develop the operating plan and are overstated. ''The rhetoric from environmental groups is out of control,'' he said.
 ''Nobody thinks the plan is perfect, but it is what a majority of the council approved,'' Mr. Weingart said. ''But according to the rhetoric, it is worse than no plan at all, and anyone who disagrees with them is suspect.''
 Regardless of what happens to the current operating plan, New Jersey, since passage of the 2004 law, appears to be a leader in trying to protect the Highlands. A federally designated Highlands region also includes parts of Pennsylvania, New York and Connecticut, but only New Jersey has acted to protect its part of the region, Ms. Swan said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: OPEN SPACE: Alstede Farms in Chester Township is in the 860,000-acre Highlands, in the northwest part of the state. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NANCY WEGARD)(NJ1)
BIG COUNTRY: Kurt Alstede, on his farm, is a member of the Highlands Council. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NANCY WEGARD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 SIERRA CLUB LEADER: Jeff Tittel (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIMOTHY IVY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(NJ6) MAP: New Jersey Highlands. Map details the proposed preservation and planning areas of the New Jersey Highlands. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAND USE PLANNING (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ZONING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); SUBURBS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); POPULATION DENSITY (77%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (73%); WATER QUALITY (71%); POLITICS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); LAKES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (82%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (78%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



248 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE FEED; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Can Israel Find The Water It Needs?

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

DATELINE: NEGEV DESERT, Israel 

 BODY:
 A SOUVENIR in the corner of Doron Ovits's office attests to the challenges of farming in Israel.
 It's a mangled piece of metal, and Mr. Ovits says it came from a rocket that landed in a field recently, lobbed from the nearby Gaza Strip.
 But Mr. Ovits may have a bigger long-term problem than rockets. 
 Israel is running short of water. A growing population and rising incomes have increased demand for fresh water, while a four-year drought has created what Shalom Simhon, the agriculture minister, calls ''a deep water crisis.''
 The problem isn't only in Israel. Many arid regions of the globe, including the American West, are dealing with growing populations and shrinking water supplies. Global warming could make matters even worse.
 In a speech earlier this year, the secretary general of the United Nations, Ban Ki-moon, said the shortage of water could lead to violence.
 ''Our experiences tell us that environmental stress, due to lack of water, may lead to conflict and would be greater in poor nations,'' he said. ''Population growth will make the problem worse. So will climate change. As the global economy grows, so will its thirst. Many more conflicts lie just over the horizon.'' Some economists suggest that arid countries should focus on growing only those crops that give them a competitive advantage, like water-sipping grapes and vegetables, and buy everything else on the world market.
 But the recent volatility and high prices in commodity markets have made many world leaders reluctant to rely on global markets. Some oil-rich countries like Saudi Arabia are now shopping for farmland in more fertile countries like Sudan and Pakistan.
 Others are now more determined than ever to increase their own food production, Israel among them. The question now becomes, at what cost?
 ''The greatest challenge we face is to try and reduce the dependence on the import of grains, whether by increasing local production or whether by making more efficient use of raw materials in feeding livestock,'' Mr. Simhon said in an e-mail exchange. ''This must be done, despite all limitations, mainly the lack of water.''
 Israel has always been considered to be at the forefront of water efficiency in agriculture. Modern drip irrigation was invented in Israel, and Israeli companies like Netafim now ship drip-irrigation systems all over the world.
 Israel has also aggressively pursued the use of treated sewer water for irrigation. Mr. Ovits's tomatoes and peppers, for instance, are irrigated with recycled sewer water that he says is ''even cleaner than the drinking water.''
 For all the country's efforts though, it can't control the weather. But Israeli officials say they believe they have a solution.
 Agriculture in Israel now consumes 500 million cubic meters of potable water and an equal amount of other types of water, primarily treated sewer water. The country plans to provide a further 200 million cubic meters of recycled sewer water and build more desalination plants to supply even more water.
 ''If the desalination and recycling projects are implemented, a lack of water is not expected in 2013,'' Mr. Simhon said.
 But is such an investment wise for a sector that contributes just 2 percent to the gross domestic product? Some critics suggest that Israel would be better off focusing on conservation.
 Others have predicted a dire future. The chief scientist in the environment ministry, Yeshayahu Bar-Or, was quoted in The Economist in June as predicting that global warming would cause 35 percent less rainfall, contamination of underground water sources and pollution of the Sea of Galilee, this nation's largest source of fresh water.
 In the Golan Heights, Roni Kedar, 46, hopes his farm can survive long enough for a solution.
 As a farmer for Kibbutz Ein Zivan, which abuts the Syrian border, he has spent the last 30 years trying to conserve water while growing grapes, apples, flowers and berries.
 HIS crops are irrigated with treated sewer water and rain runoff that is captured in a nearby reservoir, which is now severely depleted. He grows plants that do not require much water and feeds them with irrigation lines that drip water directly onto a plant's roots, minimizing waste. And he is now experimenting in his apple orchards with mesh nets that may further prevent evaporation.
 But because of the drought, Israeli officials have cut the kibbutz's annual quota of water. This year's cuts were particularly harsh, to 1 million cubic meters from 1.8 million, forcing Mr. Kedar to tear out some of his orchards and rip the fruit off of some of his apple trees, to keep the trees alive but preserve water.
 ''I don't even like to go there. It's a disaster,'' he said, motioning toward an apple orchard where the fruit covers the ground. ''We just threw everything to the floor and hope that next year is better.''
 He estimated that he would not harvest a third of his fields because of the water restrictions. ''The decision is really simple. You choose the part of your fields that are hardest to get water to and you destroy them.''
 ''We just don't have enough water,'' he said later. ''It's frustrating because you work hard to make it grow. The point is to be big and efficient enough to survive. But right now it's hard.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A drought has intensified Israel's water troubles. At Kibbutz Ein Zivan, top, farmers tore apples from trees to save water. Doron Ovits, far left, checks his tomato plants, and Roni Kedar, left, works with an irrigation system. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHAWN BALDWIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (92%); DROUGHT (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); IRRIGATION (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); COMMODITIES TRADING (75%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); WATER QUALITY (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (50%)

COMPANY: NETAFIM LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (58%)

PERSON: BAN KI-MOON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



249 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Learning to Read Democrat

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KINSLEY. 
Michael Kinsley is a columnist for Time magazine.

DATELINE: Seattle 

 BODY:
 THE purpose of a party platform is pandering, but it is pandering of a particular sort. The Democratic Party's platform committee has produced its 2008 edition, and now this draft awaits approval at the Democratic National Convention later this month. Like all platforms, it is not an outreach document. It is aimed at the faithful, under the assumption that only they will read it. 
 The platform is Democrats' assurance that the party still loves them, their reward for supporting a candidate who may not have been their first choice and their consolation for betrayals yet to come. Much of it is written in code, lest it fall into the wrong hands. 
 Translating the document is no simple task. First, an alarmist note. Democrats favor ''tough, practical and humane immigration reform.'' And, ''We will provide immediate relief to working people who have lost their jobs, families who have lost their homes and people who have lost their way.'' It's not clear what that third item refers to. Tax credits for G.P.S. devices? Presumably, ''people who have lost their way'' doesn't mean illegal immigrants trying to find the border. 
 As a general rule, platforms of both parties avoid the word ''people'' in favor of ''the American people'' or ''families'' or ''American families.'' And platforms traditionally follow the rhetorical rule that there are three of everything. This year, though (in a development that will, I fear, reinforce prejudices about liberal profligacy), the Democrats have replaced the Rule of Threes with a Rule of Fours: ''policies that are smart and right and fair and good for America,'' or ''a government as decent, candid, purposeful and compassionate as the American people themselves.'' Or sometimes even Fives or Sixes (I'll spare you).
 Sometimes there are only two. Usually this means that some difficult trade-off has been resolved by the simple expedient of promising both alternatives. ''We will ensure that our patent laws protect legitimate rights while not stifling innovation and creativity'' -- an excellent summary of the dilemma of patents since this nation's founding. Or how about a promise of more research money for ''common and rare diseases''? That about covers it. 
 Then there are the mystery phrases that suggest a triumph for one side in some obscure policy battle. In the midst of a frenzy of health care promises -- basically, after the plan is fully implemented in 2050, no one will be permitted to get sick -- the Democrats advocate ''creating a generic pathway for biologic drugs.'' Whether this is a triumph for health and common sense or the miserable handiwork of a drug industry lobbyist (or both!), I have no idea. 
 And speaking of health care, ordinarily it is not possible to overuse the word ''American'' or to overpraise this great country and its magnificent people. But the Democrats may have found a way in promising a health care system that is ''uniquely American.'' A uniquely American health care system is what we've got. 
 Capital Letters can be important clues, suggesting hidden motives and broken promises. ''Our Children's First Agenda'' sounds more like a toy for future bureaucrats than a government policy. And a ''Presidential Early Learning Council'' sounds like what these kids will do when they grow up. ''We ... will help Limited English Proficient students get ahead by supporting and funding English Language Learner classes.'' This obviously has something to do with bilingual education (or ''transitional bilingual education,'' as the platform carefully calls it). 
 A promise to create a ''Military Families Advisory Board'' sounds as though the military families sold out cheap. On the other hand, a promise to ''create an Advanced Manufacturing Fund'' and to ''expand the Manufacturing Extension Partnerships'' sounds expensive and stupid. But that's just a guess. I could be wrong.
 The platform's most bizarre promise is a tax break for fathers ''who are responsibly supporting their children.'' The best-hidden boondoggle is dropped into the second half of a sentence in a general passage about women. ''We will invest in women-owned small businesses and remove the capital gains tax on start-up small businesses.'' (Attention all conservatives: Do not panic! This passage does not mean that Democrats favor government investments in businesses, even small businesses, even small businesses owned by women. That would be socialism. It is a convention of platform-writing that all government spending is referred to as ''investment.'' The Republicans do it, too. That doesn't make it right.)
 The most shameless promise is one to ''eliminate all income taxes for seniors making less than $50,000 per year.'' These seniors ''should not have to worry about tax burdens,'' the document says. Who should? Working people making less than $50,000? 
 ''Some of'' the cost of catastrophic illness will be taken off the backs of ''employers and employees.'' And borne by? Who's left? I guess the unemployed.
 As the end approaches, the issues start to blur. Is there really no ''White House advisor on Indian Affairs'' already? The ''self-determination and sovereignty of Native Hawaiians?'' Fine with me. The last paragraph is entitled, ''Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands and the U.S. Virgin Islands.'' Translation: ''Let's wrap this up and go have a drink.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRY CAMPBELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); IMMIGRATION LAW (74%); IMMIGRATION (73%); LAYOFFS (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX LAW (67%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (65%); PATENTS (65%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (64%); PATENT LAW (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



250 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: A Peekskill Firehouse on the Move

BYLINE: By KATE STONE LOMBARDI

DATELINE: Peekskill 

 BODY:
 IT doesn't look like much now. The Centennial Firehouse, a two-story red-brick structure built in 1890, is tucked under a large metal bridge and has been abandoned for more than two decades. 
 Weeds are growing up the sides of the building, the windows are covered with sheets of metal, and crumbled bricks litter the floor.
 But next week, the 118-year-old building will be ready for its second act. The firehouse is being moved, and if all goes as planned, it will ultimately be renovated to become a museum and part of a historic district. 
 The firehouse's history is still fresh to some of the firefighters who worked there. Deputy Chief John Esposito not only remembers off the top of his head the day the firehouse closed -- Oct. 19, 1980. He also knows by heart the names of the two members of the company who died in the line of duty on Aug. 1, 1918, while battling a fierce fire at the Fleischmann plant. 
 ''They were John Torpy and Walter Cole,'' Mr. Esposito said. ''Walter Cole was 18. He had just been elected to the company in July. That was his first major fire, and unfortunately his last.''
 He wasn't certain of Mr. Torpy's age but speculated he was about 21, because he had just gotten out of the Army. (Five members from the Cortlandt Hook and Ladder Company were also killed in the Fleischmann fire.) The men died when a brick wall collapsed on them.
 Mr. Esposito, a 44-year veteran of the Peekskill Fire Department, can tell you about the company's first fire apparatus -- it was called a jumper, and the water was hand-pumped. The firemen responded to fires by pulling the wagons themselves, sometimes running up the steep hills surrounding the station. 
 Mr. Esposito even knows the names of the two horses -- Homer and John -- that pulled the company's first horse-drawn wagon, purchased in 1908. The horses were kept in a stall on the side of the firehouse.
 Fond as he is of the firehouse's history, Mr. Esposito was delighted when the company moved to its current quarters on Washington Street.
 ''We were ecstatic,'' he said. ''When you got torrential rains, the old firehouse would get flooded out. We'd have three feet of water in the building. And it happened all the time.''
 After it was closed, the building and surrounding property were sold to a developer. But the area was mostly abandoned, and over time, the vacant firehouse became home to vagrants and began to deteriorate. 
 It wasn't until the State Department of Transportation made plans to reconstruct Route 9 here that the firehouse got back on the city's radar. 
 The $72.9 million project will replace four bridges in Peekskill, including the bridge over Central Avenue, where the old firehouse sits. 
 To make the improvements, which include additional lanes and wider shoulders, the firehouse had to go. 
 The Transportation Department condemned the property.
 This is not the first time the Centennial Firehouse and Route 9 have gotten in each other's way. In 1932, when the original bridge was constructed, workers had to shave off part of the firehouse's roof to accommodate it.
 This time, however, the Transportation Department, the city and the New York State Historic Preservation Office worked together to devise a plan to relocate the structure. 
 The cost of the move is part of the highway project budget (there is a cap of $400,000), and the city also received a $1 million state grant to rehabilitate the building.
 Moving a brick building that is more than a century old is a delicate task. Workers begin by cutting two-foot by two-foot holes around its base. Steel beams are then slid through the holes to help create a new foundation. The building is lifted up, and rollers are slid underneath. 
 The firehouse will have to be rotated 90 degrees before it is moved, to avoid utility lines and the existing bridge pier, said Sandra Jobson, a Transportation Department spokeswoman.
 It will be rolled about 500 feet to a corner of a parking lot, its temporary resting spot. The ultimate plan is to move the firehouse in about 10 months to Lincoln Plaza, about a block away, where it will be restored and placed near the Lincoln Depot, where Abraham Lincoln gave a short speech in February 1861.
 Lincoln visited Peekskill during his inaugural train journey, on his only stop in Westchester. 
 City officials envision a small visitors center, the Lincoln depot and the firehouse all linked as a mini-historical area on the waterfront. Peekskill has other historic neighborhoods, including the Fort Hill Historic District. Mayor Mary Foster said the city was accepting proposals for the design and use of the plaza.
 The public will be given an opportunity to weigh in on the proposed designs, she said.
 ''You need to balance the economic possibilities of revitalization while preserving our history,'' Ms. Foster said. ''The fire companies would clearly like to have a museum aspect to the firehouse. 
 ''Since it's a two-floor firehouse, you could also do some sort of food part -- firehouse cooking maybe. But whatever we do, we want the full community's support.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GOING PLACES: Peekskill's Centennial Firehouse, built in 1890, is being relocated to become part of a historic district. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WE1)
 UPLIFTING: Holes cut in the firehouse will be employed to raise it. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WE2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (89%); HORSES (86%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); FACTORY FIRES (69%); WEATHER (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



251 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: No Traffic on a Saturday? Well, No Cars, Anyway

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ; Jason Grant contributed reporting.

 BODY:
At Grand Central Terminal, the trains ran as usual on Saturday. Tourists studied maps, vendors hawked water and magazines -- but outside, something was off. On one side of the station there were no cars, taxis or delivery trucks. Instead, the street was filled with pedestrians and bicycles. 
 Jason Phelps, 34, stepped off the curb, tilted his sunglasses and froze. ''I've just walked into a swarm of bicyclists,'' he told someone on his cellphone. ''I don't know what they want,'' he joked, ''but I'm going to close my eyes and pray.'' 
 The ding of bicycle bells and the chatter of people on foot replaced the usual automobile noises along 6.9 miles of Manhattan for six hours on Saturday. It was the first day of Summer Streets, the city's experiment in car-free recreation modeled on similar efforts in Guadalajara, Mexico; Bogota, Colombia; Paris; and several American cities. 
 On a path that extended from the Brooklyn Bridge north to Park Avenue and the Upper East Side, thousands of people filled the streets, taking part in activities like street-side tai chi or salsa dancing. Others simply enjoyed the chance to stroll in normally car-clogged streets. In a city where walkers, cyclists and motorists must share limited space, having a major thoroughfare through Manhattan free of cars created a giddy sort of excitement.
 Deborah Fried, 48, a tourist from California, rented a bicycle outside the Loews Regency Hotel on Park Avenue. Ms. Fried said she regularly rode her bicycle at the beach near her hometown of Pacific Palisades, but she had never bicycled on her visits to Manhattan . 
 She said the Summer Streets path felt safe. 
 ''You don't have to worry and be killed by a taxi,'' she said. ''To me, this beats bicycling on the beach because you get the flavor of the city.''
 The route was broken up by three rest stops, where water, maps and first aid were available. The stops also featured music and dance performances, and yoga and other exercise classes. Police officers directed traffic at 24 streets crossing the route. 
 Rabbi Jonathan Feldman, 47, took advantage of the break in traffic for a walk with his children before morning services. He said he appreciated the early morning quiet on Park Avenue. 
 ''It gives the city a certain calmness that it doesn't have otherwise,'' Rabbi Feldman said.
 The city may make Summer Streets, which continues the next two Saturdays from 7 a.m. to 1 p.m., a regular event if it proves to be a success (city officials have said that this would be a subjective measure). 
 Although Department of Transportation officials said they did not yet have an estimate of how many people turned out on Saturday, Janette Sadik-Khan, the transportation commissioner, praised the debut. ''Summer Streets really struck a chord this morning,'' she said in a statement. 
 The plan to close off streets had drawn criticism from shop owners, who feared it would hurt business. But the city assured skeptics that Summer Streets might bring more customers to their stores. 
 On Saturday, the economic impact remained unclear. Martha Barzola, 37, manager of a Papyrus stationery store on Park Avenue, said that the area around the store during summer weekends can sometimes resemble a ghost town. Because of the increased foot traffic, however, her store achieved its sales goal of $600 for the day within two hours, she said.
 But Ibrahim Hamzah, an assistant manager for an Edison ParkFast lot on the corner of Lafayette and Great Jones Streets, said he had not had a single customer, in contrast to the 30 or 40 cars that is typical for a Saturday in summer.
 ''The number of times this is going to happen should be minimal,'' Mr. Hamzah said. ''We're losing money, and it makes the job boring.''
 There were other complaints. One woman, who declined to give her name because she was in a rush, said she had to park several blocks away to get to a medical appointment. Other pedestrians said that some novice riders, still learning to control their bicycles, were a danger to those on foot. Delivery of food to restaurants was disrupted because trucks could not get in. 
 Taxi drivers had also worried that Summer Streets would reduce the number of people hailing cabs. But Ali Sada, parking his cab for a few minutes at Park Avenue and 57th Street, praised the event.
 ''All these people are going to be tired when they put their bikes away,'' he said. ''We're going to make a lot more money.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bicycles and pedestrians filled Lafayette Street at Canal Street on Saturday, the first day of the Summer Streets program.
 Tim Lee, left, and Lem Chen from Fu Kee Chinese restaurant had to carry a roast pig three blocks to a delivery truck. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); CYCLING (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); BEACHES (78%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (72%); DANCE (71%); YOGA (71%); MARTIAL ARTS (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); COLOMBIA (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



252 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: The Rich and the Rest

BYLINE: By EVE FAIRBANKS. 
Eve Fairbanks is the associate editor of The New Republic.

 BODY:
THIS LAND IS THEIR LAND 
 Reports From a Divided Nation. 
 By Barbara Ehrenreich. 
 235 pp. Metropolitan Books/Henry Holt & Company. $24. 
 Capturing the spirit of an era is American journalism's holy grail, as elusive as it is pursued. What makes the great decade-capturing books great isn't so much the originality of their themes -- Michael Lewis wasn't the only guy to write about rapacious '80s bond traders -- but the delicious precision of their details. Take the beginning of Tom Wolfe's ''Radical Chic,'' in which Wolfe savors the ''little Roquefort cheese morsels rolled in crushed nuts'' Leonard Bernstein served to real Black Panthers at a fund-raiser in his apartment. It's a moment so keenly observed, so wicked, so right, that it reveals more about the late-'60s style of self-congratulatory slumming than any sweeping pronouncement could have. 
 This kind of texture is what's missing from Barbara Ehrenreich's new book ''This Land Is Their Land,'' a collection of short opinion pieces for The New York Times, The Nation and elsewhere repackaged as a bid to define the Bush years -- ''America in the aughts,'' as the jacket copy puts it. We experienced Sept. 11, Ehrenreich explains, as a patriotism binge, a ''spasm of unity,'' but then came the hangover from which we still have not recovered. We woke up to find that somebody had stolen our civil liberties, our international reputation had been ruined, our mortgages had gone bad, our sinking dollar couldn't buy us a cup of coffee in Tijuana, the poor had gotten poorer and the rich richer and, perhaps, our country didn't even feel like ours anymore. In the aughts, Ehrenreich concludes, political and economic villains slyly snatched away the American dream, leaving us only a ''bleak landscape cluttered with boarded-up homes and littered with broken dreams.'' This land is their land now.
 But the first thing you notice about Ehrenreich's book is that the villains who did the snatching are only vaguely present. When the people oppressing the poor are mentioned, they're the vague, crudely drawn fat cats of populist morality tales: ''plutocrats''; the ''bloated overclass''; people who ''for all we know ... sip their single malts in mahogany-walled dens'' and tool around in private jets.
 And Ehrenreich offers what read now as obsolete explanations for their behavior. In one column, she theorizes that the wealthy are so greedy for money because they don't eat enough fat. ''Unbuttered low-fat muffins and delicate slices of melon fueled the crimes of Wall Street,'' she says, while ''grease was for proles.'' It's a mordantly funny piece, but it must have been written before fat came back into fashion -- before Daniel Boulud started serving hamburgers stuffed with foie gras and pork began turning up in everything from chocolate bars to cocktails, none of which did much to curb the appetites of the hedge fund managers and subprime lenders who have gotten us into our latest mess. Reading Ehrenreich's lifestyles-of-the-rapacious essays in 2008 can't help disappointing: it would have been more fun to watch her riff on the Bush era's barbecue-fueled quest for culinary authenticity than on the food fads of the '80s and '90s.
 Ehrenreich is at her best (and she's very, very good) when chronicling the outrageous human downside of our economy, the costs it imposes on people who can't afford a bacon-infused old-fashioned. There's the hospital worker whose employer garnished her paycheck for an emergency room visit, ''a condition of debt servitude reminiscent of early-20th-century company towns.'' There's the poor man who got himself arrested in order to live more comfortably in prison, because ''we are reaching the point ... where the largest public housing program in America will be our penitentiary system.'' Remove the less-than-trenchant lifestyle and culture essays, and you've got a tight and chilling companion volume to ''Nickel and Dimed,'' Ehrenreich's account of her own experience working undercover in the low-wage economy. 
 Surely someone of Ehrenreich's political persuasion could have found more time to skewer the things I really associate with the Bush era: Iraq, the lobbying scandals, reality TV, BlackBerrys. Cultural criticism sinks or swims on the keenness of its observations, and too often, when Ehrenreich turns her sights away from the poor, she lapses into vagueness. Her most vividly painted ultravillains of the aughts are fictional ones in the now-forgotten big-screen ''Miami Vice.'' And while the poor suffer, she writes, ''you can bet ...that those C.E.O.'s who cooked the books and ransacked their companies' assets did not start the day with two eggs over easy, a rasher of bacon, and a side of hash browns.'' But why bet when you can write about the real thing? 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOE CIARDIELLO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (85%); JOURNALISM (78%); BONDS (76%)

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: This Land Is Their Land (Book)>; This Land Is Their Land (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



253 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 295 words

HEADLINE: Investments in Banks

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In ''The Banks and Private Equity'' (editorial, Aug. 3), you rightly characterize the state of the United States banking system as ''ailing'' and ''hamstrung.'' You'd have to look back to the 1930s to find a time when the health of the nation's banking system has been so poor, or the need for a prompt infusion of new capital so urgent. 
 It was surprising, then, that you referred to private equity firms as being interested in making new investments in banking institutions ''without regulation.''
 The American banking industry is one of the most heavily regulated in the world. Updating financial regulations to permit new investments of more than 10 percent of a bank's voting equity by private equity firms would do absolutely nothing to undermine the regulatory scrutiny to which banks are subject. 
 Nor would allowing private equity firms to provide more capital to the banking industry change the balance of decision-making power at the board level or push banks toward riskier investments. In fact, the effect would quite likely be the opposite. 
 To date, the global financial services industry has announced losses of more than $350 billion -- and the expectation is that that figure could more than double. The bill for a major bank failure almost certainly would wind up in the in-box of the American taxpayer. It therefore seems cavalier to suggest, as you do: ''Some banks will fail. That, unfortunately, is what happens in a financial crisis.'' 
 It would make much more sense to prevent a rash of bank failures by encouraging major new investments from private equity partnerships, which have a long track record of turning around troubled organizations.
 Douglas Lowenstein President, Private Equity Council Washington, Aug. 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (94%); PRIVATE EQUITY (92%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BANK FAILURES (89%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2008



254 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: Broaden Affirmative Action

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Obama Walks a Delicate Path on Class and Race Preferences'' (front page, Aug. 3): 
 I worked in the 1970s as the first civil rights compliance officer in Wisconsin and the first affirmative action officer for Madison. As an ardent advocate of affirmative action, I withheld funds from grantees who refused to set goals and timetables to hire women and members of minorities. 
 Recruitment campaigns were advertised in the white media only, with no comparable outreach into minority communities. No efforts were made to assist members of minorities or women to meet the minimum standards required for the jobs. Affirmative action programs were successful in breaking down many barriers. 
 Thirty-five years later we do not have perfect equal employment opportunity or perfect recruitment of students, but today members of minority groups and women are working in police and fire departments, the trades and top management and are attending college.
 Barack Obama is right. Affirmative action should be broadened to assist all economically deprived people, regardless of color or sex.
 Rina Rosenberg Palo Alto, Calif., Aug. 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (96%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); WOMEN (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (65%) WISCONSIN, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



255 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; BATTLE CRY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4008 words

HEADLINE: Taunting the Bear

BYLINE: By JAMES TRAUB

 BODY:
The hostilities between Russia and Georgia that erupted on Friday over the breakaway province of South Ossetia look, in retrospect, almost absurdly over-determined. For years, the Russians have claimed that Georgia's president, Mikheil Saakashvili, has been preparing to retake the disputed regions of South Ossetia and Abkhazia, and have warned that they would use force to block such a bid. Mr. Saakashvili, for his part, describes today's Russia as a belligerent power ruthlessly pressing at its borders, implacably hostile to democratic neighbors like Georgia and Ukraine. He has thrown in his lot with the West, and has campaigned ardently for membership in NATO. Vladimir V. Putin, Russia's former president and current prime minister, has said Russia could never accept a NATO presence in the Caucasus.
 The border between Georgia and Russia, in short, has been the driest of tinder; the only question was where the fire would start. 
 It's scarcely clear yet how things will stand between the two when the smoke clears. But it's safe to say that while Russia has a massive advantage in firepower, Georgia, an open, free-market, more-or-less-democratic nation that sees itself as a distant outpost of Europe, enjoys a decisive rhetorical and political edge. In recent conversations there, President Saakashvili compared Georgia to Czechoslovakia in 1938, trusting the West to save it from a ravenous neighbor. ''If Georgia fails,'' he said to me darkly two months ago, ''it will send a message to everyone that this path doesn't work.''
 During a 10-day visit to Georgia in June, I heard the 1938 analogy again and again, as well as another to 1921, when Bolshevik troops crushed Georgia's thrilling, and brief, first experiment with liberal rule. 
 Georgians are a melodramatic people, and few more so than their hyperactive president; but they have good reason to fear the ambitions, and the wrath, of a rejuvenated Russia seeking to regain lost power. Indeed, a renascent and increasingly bellicose Russia is an ominous spectacle for the West too. While China preaches, and largely practices, the doctrine of ''peaceful rise,'' avoiding confrontation abroad in order to focus on development at home, Russia acts increasingly like an expansionist 19th-century power, pressing at its borders. Most strikingly, Russia has bluntly deployed its vast oil and gas resources to punish refractory neighbors like Ukraine, and reward compliant ones like Armenia.
 A senior American official said that while the United States and Russia have common interests, Russia has become ''a revisionist and aggressive power,'' and the West ''has to be prepared to push back.'' But the Bush administration also recognizes that Russia has legitimate security interests, and that Mr. Saakashvili has played a dangerous game of baiting the Russian bear. Officials were laboring into the weekend -- in vain, they feared -- to coax both sides back to their corners. For much of the diplomatic and policy-making world, the border where Georgia faces Russia, with South Ossetia and Abkhazia between them, has become a new cold war frontier.
 Georgia ardently aspires to join the peaceable kingdom of Europe; but to talk to Georgians about Russia is to enter a cold war time warp. I was speaking one evening to the owner of a fine antiques shop in Tbilisi when the conversation somehow swerved to Russia. ''These Russians are so stupid,'' he cried. ''They do not know what is friend. They would rather have angry enemies than real friends.'' Russia's apparent hatred for Georgia provoked endless bewilderment, and no little bit of pride. I heard from three different people about a poll in which Georgia had just surged ahead of the United States as the country Russians identified as Enemy No. 1. Georgians insist that they are free of such zero-sum pathologies, though you might have thought otherwise if you had listened to the crowd in Betsy's Hotel in Tbilisi during the Russia-Holland quarterfinal of the Euro Cup; suddenly the Dutch were everyone's darling.
 SUBMISSION AND REBELLION
 The roots of this bitter relationship are deep and tangled, as is practically everything in the archaic world of the Caucasus. Modern Georgian history is a record of submission to superior Russian power. Threatened by the expanding Persian empire, in 1783 the Georgians formally accepted the protection of Russia; this polite fiction ended when Russia annexed Georgia in 1801. The chaos of the Russian Revolution finally gave Georgia a chance to restore its sovereignty a century later. The Georgians were Mensheviks -- social democrats, in effect -- and for three years enjoyed one of the world's most progressive governments. The Bolshevik government signed a treaty respecting Georgia's independence -- which Europe, as President Saakashvili pointedly reminded me, naively insisted on taking at face value. By the time the Europeans woke up to reality, it was too late.
 From the time of Pushkin, Russians viewed Georgia as a romantic, exotic frontier. During the long puritanical deep-freeze of Communism, Georgia served as Russia's Italy -- a warm, lotus-eating sanctuary of singers and poets and swashbuckling gangsters. The elite had their beloved dachas on the Black Sea coast of Abkhazia. At the same time, Stalin, though himself Georgian, kept the republic subdued through brutal purges. The head of the Georgian Communist party was Lavrenti Beria, a cold-blooded killer who would become the master architect of Stalin's terror. The Georgians, though helpless, never accepted their Soviet identity, and preserved their language, culture, religious practice and sense of national identity, as they had under the czars. And when, at last, the Soviet empire collapsed as the czarist one had, Georgia immediately broke away and declared its independence, in 1991. 
 The infant country spent the next decade stagnating under the Soviet-style rule of Eduard Shevardnadze, the former foreign minister to Mikhail Gorbachev. But in 2003, Mr. Shevardnadze was peacefully overthrown in what came to be known as the Rose Revolution. Mr. Saakashvili was elected the following year. Since then, Georgia has become a poster child for Westernization. The growth rate has reached 12 percent. The countryside remains impoverished, but what the outside world sees of Georgia is delightful. Tbilisi is a charming city, its ancient Orthodox churches restored to life, the lanes of the old city lined with cafes and art galleries. Mr. Saakashvili has also made Georgia one of the world's most -- or few -- pro-American countries. President Bush received a rapturous welcome when he visited in 2005, and the road to the airport has now been named after him, complete with a large poster of the president. 
 RUSSIA RESURGENT
 It was, of course, at this very moment that another ambitious young figure was reshaping Russia's politics, economy and self-image. The combination of Vladimir Putin's reforms and the dizzying rise in the price of oil and gas have rapidly restored Russia to the status of world power. And Mr. Putin has harnessed that power in the service of aggressive nationalism. 
 Marshall Goldman, a leading Russia scholar, argues in a recent book that Mr. Putin has established a ''petrostate,'' in which oil and gas are strategically deployed as punishments, rewards and threats. The author details the lengths to which Mr. Putin has gone to retain control over the delivery of natural gas from Central Asia to the West. A proposed alternative pipeline would skirt Russia and run through Georgia, as an oil pipeline now does. ''If Georgia collapses in turmoil,'' Mr. Goldman notes, ''investors will not put up the money for a bypass pipeline.'' And so, he concludes, Mr. Putin has done his best to destabilize the Saakashvili regime.
 But economic considerations alone scarcely account for what appears to be an obsession with Georgia. The ''color revolutions'' that swept across Ukraine, the Balkans and the Caucasus in the first years of the new century plainly unnerved Mr. Putin, who has denounced America's policy of ''democracy promotion'' and stifled foreign organizations seeking to promote human rights in Russia. Georgia, with its open embrace of the West, thus represents a threat to the legitimacy of Russia's authoritarian model. And this challenge is immensely compounded by Georgia's fervent aspiration to join NATO, one of Russia's red lines. Russian officials frequently recall that President Bill Clinton promised Boris Yeltsin that NATO would not expand beyond Eastern Europe. Of course NATO is no longer an anti-Soviet alliance, and the fact that Russia views NATO's eastward expansion as a threat to its security is a vivid sign of the deep-rooted cold war mentality of Mr. Putin and his circle.
 Still, they seem to mean it. Both Mr. Putin and his successor as president, Dmitri Medvedev, have reserved their starkest rhetoric for this subject. Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov has threatened that Georgia's ambition to join NATO ''will lead to renewed bloodshed,'' adding, as if that weren't enough, ''we will do anything not to allow Georgia and Ukraine to join NATO.'' 
 After Mr. Saakashvili, then 37, became president, Mr. Putin made no attempt to court him, and Mr. Saakashvili, made a point of showing the regional hegemon no deference. The open struggle began in late 2005 and early 2006, when Russia imposed an embargo on Georgia's agricultural products, then on wine and mineral water -- virtually Georgia's entire export market. After Georgia very publicly and dramatically expelled Russian diplomats accused of espionage, Mr. Putin cut off all land, sea, air and rail links to Georgia, as well as postal service. And then, for good measure, he cut off natural gas supplies in the dead of winter. 
 ECHOES OF TRAGEDY
 This new round of bellicosity struck Georgians as frighteningly familiar. Alexander Rondeli, the director of the Georgian Foundation for Strategic and International Studies, recited to me a thought he attributed to the diplomat-scholar George F. Kennan: ''Russia can have at its borders only enemies or vassals.'' Here, for him, was further proof, as if it were needed, that imperialist expansion and brute subjugation are coded in Russia's DNA. The Georgian elite came to view Russia as an unappeasable power imbued with the paranoia of the K.G.B., from which Mr. Putin and his closest associates rose, and fueled by the national sense of humiliation over Russia's helplessness in the 1990s. ''You should understand,'' Mr. Saakashvili said, mocking the Europeans who urge forbearance on him, ''that the crocodile is hungry. Well, from the point of view of someone who wants to keep his own leg, that's hard to accept.'' 
 And yet the crocodile might have been held at bay were it not for Abkhazia and South Ossetia -- the first a traditional Black Sea resort area that defined Georgia's western frontier, and the second an impoverished, sparsely populated region that borders Russia to the north. Georgia is a polygot nation, and views both regions as historically, and inextricably, Georgian. Each, however, had its own language, culture, timeless history and separatist aspirations. When the Soviet Union collapsed, both regions sought to separate themselves from Georgia in bloody conflicts -- South Ossetia in 1990-1, Abkhazia in 1992-4. Both wars ended with cease-fires that were negotiated by Russia and policed by peacekeeping forces under the aegis of the recently established Commonwealth of Independent States. Over time, the stalemates hardened into ''frozen conflicts,'' like that over Cyprus. 
 But the Georgians are intensely nationalistic, and viewed these de facto states on their border as an intolerable violation of sovereignty. Mr. Saakashvili cashed in on this deep sense of grievance, vowing to restore Georgia's ''territorial integrity.'' Soon after taking office, he succeeded in regaining Georgian control over the southwestern province of Ajara. Then, in the summer of 2004, citing growing banditry and chaos, he sent Interior Ministry troops into South Ossetia. After a series of inconclusive clashes, the troops were forced to make a humiliating withdrawal. 
 Still, this violation of the status quo infuriated the Russians, and Mr. Saakashvili, for once listening to his few dovish advisors, agreed to seek a negotiated settlement in Abkhazia. By late 2005, a Georgian mediator had initialed an agreement: Georgia would not use force, and the Abkhaz would allow the gradual return of 200,000-plus ethnic Georgians who had fled the violence. But the agreement collapsed in early 2006, done in by hardliners on both sides. This chapter has been all but effaced from the history one hears in Georgia.
 WAITING FOR A SPARK
 This brief interval of talk came to an abrupt end two summers ago, when Mr. Saakashvili sent troops to retake the Kodori Valley in Abkhazia -- in order, once again, to curb banditry (of which there was, in fact, a great deal). Both the Abkhaz and the Russians took this as a sign that Georgia was prepared to fight to regain its former province. Indeed, last year Mr. Saakashvili traveled to the Abkhaz border and promised a crowd of Georgian refugees that they would be back home within a year.
 The breakaway regions were thus a stick of dynamite waiting to be lit. And Mr. Putin struck a match. Although Russia, as the peacekeeping power, was charged with preserving an international consensus that recognized Georgia's claims over Abkhazia, Russia lifted sanctions on Abkhazia last March. This had nothing to do with local events: Mr. Putin had tried for years to prevent Kosovo from declaring its independence from Serbia, and when the Kosovars went ahead, with strong American and European support, last February, Mr. Putin responded by leveling a blow at America's Caucasus darling.
 Soon afterward, the Russian Duma held hearings on recognition of Abkhazia, South Ossetia and Transnistria, a pro-Russian breakaway republic in Moldova. Moscow argued that the West's logic on Kosovo should apply as well to these ethnic communities seeking to free themselves from the control of a hostile state. And then, in mid-April, Mr. Putin held out the possibility of recognition for the breakaway republics. 
 Now things began to degenerate rapidly. On April 21, Mr. Saakashvili called the Russian leader to demand that he reverse the decision. He reminded Mr. Putin that the West had taken Georgia's side in the dispute. And Mr. Putin, according to several of Mr. Saakashvili's associates, shot back with a suggestion about where they could put their statements. Mr. Saakashvili, prudent for once, shied from uttering the exact wording, but said that Mr. Putin had used ''extremely offensive language,'' and had repeated the expression several times. 
 Mr. Saakashvili was shaken by the naked hostility. He already feared that the West, or at least Europe, would never rally to Georgia's side in a crisis; and here was Mr. Putin saying that the West's support meant nothing to him. Here, indeed, was 1938.
 The atmosphere during the early spring was electric with tension. Georgia accused Russia of shooting down a drone aircraft over Abkhazia; a United Nations report later confirmed the claim. Russia loudly insisted that Georgia was preparing for war; the Georgians had, indeed, mobilized troops and prepared fuel dumps. 
 Russia responded to the apparent Georgian preparations by dispatching 400 paratroopers and a battery of howitzers to a staging area not far from the cease-fire line, provoking a strong protest from NATO. ''At the end of the day, we were very close to war'' on May 9, says Temuri Yacobashvili, the Georgian minister of reintegration and a Saakashvili confidant. In fact, diplomats in Georgia and elsewhere give somewhat more credence to the Russian claims than to Georgia's. State Department officials urged Mr. Saakashvili to calm down. Perhaps each side was trying to provoke the other into striking first, and thus losing the battle of public opinion. Of course, that's how wars often start. 
 Until last week, it was Abkhazia, not South Ossetia, that seemed the likeliest candidate for a war of inadvertence, and so I visited there in late June. It was hard to fathom what people were fighting over. In the capital, Sukhumi, population 40,000, relics of the fighting were everywhere, and the giant Soviet-era Parliament building was a scorched hulk. The streets were all but deserted. 
 THE SPIRAL DOWN
 Talking to the Georgians about Abkhazia, and the Abkhaz about Georgia, was like shuttling between the Israelis and the Palestinians. The Georgians said that they were ''always there,'' that Abkhazia was a Georgian kingdom, and that only by expelling the ethnic Georgians at the end of the war did the Abkhaz make themselves a majority in the province. The Abkhaz said that they are the descendants of a ''1,000-year-old kingdom,'' that they were the victims of a massive campaign of Russian deportation in the 1860s, and then that Stalin forced them into the Georgian yoke. The Abkhaz talk about the Georgians pretty much the same way that the Georgians talk about the Russians. On that point, the Abkhaz share much with the South Ossetians. For them, as for the Ossetians, Georgia is the neighborhood bully. 
 It's a pretty safe bet that Georgia and Abkhazia will not resolve their conflict on their own. Both breakaway regions are quite willing to live with the Russian-enforced status quo, but even relatively moderate Georgian officials consider that status quo utterly unacceptable. When I asked Temuri Yacobashvili, a cultivated man who is one of the country's leading art patrons, why Georgia couldn't focus on the threat from Russia and let the Abkhaz have their de facto state, he said, ''These are not two different things, because it's not amputating hand, it's amputating head, or heart. No Georgian president could survive if he gave up on Abkhazia.'' And, he added, ''if the international community by its inaction will not leave any other option for Georgia, then we have to make decision.'' 
 If the West, that is, won't induce Russia to stop using the border region as a pawn, Georgia will be left with no choice save war. And how will the West do that? Mr. Saakashvili suggests sanctions, like travel bans, on individual Russian leaders. When I posed the same question to Giga Bokeria, another confidante who is deputy minister for foreign affairs, he said, ''If Russia ceases to be an empire.'' These are not serious answers.
 The situation in both Abkhazia and South Ossetia took yet another turn down the spiral of confrontation in July, when mysterious acts of violence plagued both regions. There were bombings in Abkhazia. There were shootings in South Ossetia. Who was behind the string of attacks? Criminal gangs? Provocateurs? Georgian secret agents? No one knew, but that didn't stop the accusations from flying. Abkhazia closed the cease-fire line, then cut all ties with Georgia. On July 8, with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice about to visit Georgia, Russia sent fighter jets over South Ossetia. Georgian Interior Ministry forces squared off against civilians in South Ossetia. The pot was boiling. And then, last week, the lid blew in South Ossetia, for reasons that remain unclear. Diplomats are now laboring mightily to prevent the war from spreading, though hostilities may serve too many different interests to be easily contained.
 THE WEST GETS SCARED
 There is real alarm in the West about the deteriorating situation in the Caucasus. Diplomats from Washington and the major European capitals, as well as from the United Nations, the European Union and NATO, have been crisscrossing the region trying to bring the parties together. In July, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, the foreign minister of Germany, the lead nation of the United Nations secretary general's ''Group of Friends'' of Georgia, approached the Georgians and the Abkhaz with a peace plan similar in outline to the one that failed two years ago. The Georgians agreed to a meeting in Bonn; the Abkhaz, presumably with Russian support, refused. Mr. Saakashvili himself had tried to show a more conciliatory side, proposing guarantees of autonomy for Abkhazia within a federated Georgia, as well as the establishment of a jointly controlled free economic zone adjacent to the cease-fire line. (The Abkhaz rejected the offer, not only because they insist on independence, but because they assumed, perhaps correctly, that Mr. Saakashvili was posturing for the West.)
 What is striking, though, is the growing consensus about Russian behavior. The United Nations, the European Union and NATO have all sided with Georgia in the disputes over Abkhazia and South Ossetia. Mr. Saakashvili was deeply disappointed when NATO declined in early April to put Georgia and Ukraine on the path to membership, but he says that the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, explained to him that while the Germans ''don't want to be pushed'' on NATO, they might offer their support later this year. Almost as satisfying to Mr. Saakashvili was his discovery that Ms. Merkel ''gets it'' about Russia -- ''because she knows Russia from her own experience.''
 In a recent essay, the archrealist Henry Kissinger argued that Putin-era policy had been driven not by dreams of restored glory, but by ''a quest for a reliable strategic partner, with America being the preferred choice.'' Some Russia experts on the left, like Stephen Cohen of Princeton, have taken a similar view. But Russia's bellicose behavior, and now the hostilities along its border, make it increasingly difficult to act on such a premise without seeming naive.
 People of all political persuasion now seem to get it about Russia. In ''The Return of History and The End of Dreams,'' Robert Kagan, the neoconservative foreign policy expert who is advising John McCain, writes of Mr. Putin and his coterie: ''Their grand ambition is to undo the post-cold war settlement and to re-establish Russia as a dominant power in Eurasia.'' Michael McFaul, a Russia expert at Stanford who is advising Barack Obama, also views Russia as a premodern, sphere-of-influence power. He attributes Russia's hostility to further NATO expansion less to geostrategic calculations than to what he says is Mr. Putin's cold war mentality. The essential Russian calculus, he says, is, ''Anything we can do to weaken the U.S. is good for Russia.'' 
 For the West, the core issue is the survival of democratic, or at least independent, states along Russia's frontier. But for this very reason, even the United States, which has been Georgia's most steadfast ally, distinguishes between the status of Abkhazia and South Ossetia on the one hand, and Russia's threat to Georgia's autonomy and integrity on the other.
 HOPING FOR PATIENCE
 Administration officials have regularly cautioned Mr. Saakashvili to be patient on Abkhazia and South Ossetia, even as they have given private and public reassurances about NATO membership. It would, in fact, be surprising if Georgia had consciously provoked a war in South Ossetia, since Mr. Saakashvili understands that doing so would almost certainly put an end to the NATO bid; indeed, Russia may well calculate that NATO will continue to exclude Georgia so long as the country is embroiled in hostilities along its border. 
 Georgia's predicament seems very simple from the vantage point of Tbilisi -- 1921, 1938 -- but extremely complicated from a great remove. Russia threatens Georgia, but Georgia threatens Abkhazia and South Ossetia. Russia looks like a crocodile to Georgia, but Georgia looks to Russia like thecats' paw of the West. One party has all the hard power it could want, the other all the soft. And now, while the world was looking elsewhere, the frozen conflict between them has thawed and cracked. It will take a great deal of care and attention even to put things back to where they were before.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 17, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the history of tension between Russia and Georgia misidentified the educational affiliation of an expert whose view of the motivation behind Putin-era foreign policy is similar to that of former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger. The expert, Stephen Cohen, is on the faculty of New York University; he is no longer with Princeton.
An article last Sunday about the history of tension between Russia and Georgia misidentified the educational affiliation of an expert whose view of the motivation behind Putin-era foreign policy is similar to that of former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger. The expert, Stephen Cohen, is on the faculty of New York University; he is no longer with Princeton.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: END OF TRUCE: A Georgian soldier ready for action against South Ossetian separatists Friday, before Russian troops swept in. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NODAR TSHVIRASHVILI/REUTERS) (pg.WK1)
CASUALTIES: The relatives and friends of wounded Georgian soldiers and civilians gathered on Friday at an army hospital in Gori, a city close by the fighting in South Ossetia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTYNA MIELNIKIEWICZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.WK4)
CRISIS: As Russian tanks rolled, President Bush and Prime Minister Putin were in Beijing. At bottom, Georgia's president, Mikheil Saakashvili. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ORT RUSSIAN CHANNEL 1 TELEVISION, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
MANDEL NGAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
POOL PHOTO BY IRAKLI GEDENIDZE)
NEIGHBORS: During elections in 2006 in South Ossetia, a poster proclaimed Vladimir Putin ''our president.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTYNA MIELNIKIEWICZ) (pg.WK5) TENSION AND CLASHES: APRIL 2008 Russia destroys a Georgian reconnaissance d rone over Abkhazia. MAY NATO protests Russian plans to increase Russian soldiers there. JULY A bomb kills four in Gali, including an official of the rebel government
rebels blame Georgia. NOV. 2007 Russia said it had formally ended its military presence in Georgia after more than two centuries, returning to Georgia the territory of its last base at Batumi in the Ajara autonomous republic. APRIL 2008 Russia announces broadly expanded support for Abkhazia and South Ossetia. JULY A firefight erupts between Georgian and South Ossetian soldiers. AUG. 8 Russian and Georgian troops clash in South Ossetia
 Georgia's president calls it a ''well-planned invasion.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); ARMED FORCES (71%); LIBERALISM (65%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%)

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (91%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); GEORGIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); UKRAINE (91%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); ARMENIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



256 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 8195 words

HEADLINE: Post-Race

BYLINE: By MATT BAI. 
Matt Bai, who covers politics for the magazine, is the author of ''The Argument: Inside the Battle to Remake Democratic Politics.''

 BODY:
Forty-seven years after he last looked out from behind the bars of a South Carolina jail cell, locked away for leading a march against segregation in Columbia, James Clyburn occupies a coveted suite of offices on the second and third floors of the United States Capitol, alongside the speaker and the House majority leader. Above his couch hangs a black-and-white photograph of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. speaking in Charleston, with the boyish Clyburn and a group of other men standing behind him onstage. When I visited Clyburn recently, he told me that the photo was taken in 1967, nine months before King's assassination, when rumors of violence were swirling, and somewhere on the side of the room a photographer's floodlight had just come crashing down unexpectedly. At the moment the photo was taken, everyone pictured has reflexively jerked their heads in the direction of the sound, with the notable exception of King himself, who remains in profile, staring straight ahead at his audience. Clyburn prizes that photo. It tells the story, he says, of a man who knew his fate but who, quite literally, refused to flinch. 
 On the day in early July when Clyburn and I talked, Barack Obama, who is the same age as one of Clyburn's three daughters, had recently clinched his party's nomination for president. Clyburn, who as majority whip is the highest-ranking black elected official in Washington, told me that on the night of the final primaries he left the National Democratic Club down the street about 15 minutes before Obama was scheduled to speak and returned home to watch by himself. He feared he might lose hold of his emotions. 
 ''Here we are, all of a sudden, in the 60th year after Strom Thurmond bolting the Democratic Party over a simple thing, something almost unheard of -- because he did not want the armed forces to be integrated,'' Clyburn said slowly. ''Here we are 45 years after the 'I have a dream' speech. Forty years after the assassinations of Kennedy and King. And this party that I have been a part of for so long, this party that has been accused of taking black people for granted, is about to deliver the nomination for the nation's highest office to an African-American. How do you describe that? All those days in jail cells, wondering if anything you were doing was even going to have an impact.'' He shook his head silently.
 This time, however, a lot of the old activists stood in the path of an African-American's advancement rather than blazing it. While Democratic black voters embraced Obama by ratios of 8 or 9 to 1 in a lot of districts, the 42 House members in the Congressional Black Caucus, for a time, split more or less down the middle between Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton, and the country's leading black ministers and mayors trended toward the Clinton camp. Clyburn himself declined until the very end to endorse a candidate in this year's primaries, saying that his leadership role required him to remain neutral, but he made no effort to disguise his relief at having been able to invoke that excuse. ''Being African-American, sure, my heart was with him,'' Clyburn told me. ''But I've got a head too. And in the beginning my head was with Clinton. The conventional wisdom was that this thing was going to be over in February.'' 
 He then recalled a moment, just after the Georgia primary in early February, when he ran into John Lewis, the legendary civil rights leader and Georgia congressman, on the House floor. Lewis was in anguish over the primaries. He had endorsed his friend Hillary Clinton, but his constituents had gone heavily for Obama, and he was beginning to waver. As Clyburn remembered it, Lewis told his old friend sadly that after all these years, they were finally going to see history yield to the forces they had unleashed. ''And I'm on the wrong side,'' Lewis said. (Later, after weeks of public vacillating, he would switch his allegiance.)
 It is hard for any outsider to fully understand the thinking that led many older black leaders to spurn the candidacy of a man who is now routinely pictured, along with '60s-era revolutionaries like Angela Davis and Malcolm X, on the T-shirts sold at the street-corner kiosks of black America. (''You'd be real embarrassed if he won and you wasn't down with it,'' the comedian Chris Rock joked to a Harlem audience while introducing Obama last November. ''You'd say: 'Aww, I can't call him now! I had that white lady! What was I thinking?' '') Conversations like those I had with Clyburn and Lewis, however, begin to illuminate just how emotionally complicated such internal deliberations were.
 On a surface level, those who backed Clinton did so largely out of a combination of familiarity and fatalism. If you were a longtime black leader or activist at the end of 2007, you probably believed, based on your own life experience, that no black man was going to win the nomination, let alone the presidency. (''If anybody tells you they expected this result, they're not being honest with you,'' Clyburn cautioned.) You knew the Clintons personally, or at least you knew their allies in the community. Who was this Obama, really, aside from the resonant voice and the neon smile? As Charles Rangel, Harlem's powerful representative and a strong Clinton ally, told me recently, ''Of course I would support someone I knew and had liked and had worked with, versus someone I'd never heard of.''
 But maybe it wasn't only what you didn't know about Obama. What did he know about you? Obama was barely 2 years old when King gave his famous speech, 3 when Lewis was beaten about the head in Selma. He didn't grow up in the segregated South as Bill Clinton had. Sharing those experiences wasn't a prerequisite for gaining the acceptance of black leaders, necessarily, but that didn't mean Obama, with his nice talk of transcending race and baby-boomer partisanship, could fully appreciate the sacrifices they made, either. ''Every kid is always talking about what his parents have been through,'' Rangel says, ''and no kid has any clue what he's talking about.'' 
 For black Americans born in the 20th century, the chasms of experience that separate one generation from the next-- those who came of age before the movement, those who lived it, those who came along after -- have always been hard to traverse. Elijah Cummings, the former chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus and an early Obama supporter, told me a story about watching his father, a South Carolina sharecropper with a fourth-grade education, weep uncontrollably when Cummings was sworn in as a representative in 1996. Afterward, Cummings asked his dad if he had been crying tears of joy. ''Oh, you know, I'm happy,'' his father replied. ''But now I realize, had I been given the opportunity, what I could have been. And I'm about to die.'' In any community shadowed by oppression, pride and bitterness can be hard to untangle.
 The generational transition that is reordering black politics didn't start this year. It has been happening, gradually and quietly, for at least a decade, as younger African-Americans, Barack Obama among them, have challenged their elders in traditionally black districts. What this year's Democratic nomination fight did was to accelerate that transition and thrust it into the open as never before, exposing and intensifying friction that was already there. For a lot of younger African-Americans, the resistance of the civil rights generation to Obama's candidacy signified the failure of their parents to come to terms, at the dusk of their lives, with the success of their own struggle -- to embrace the idea that black politics might now be disappearing into American politics in the same way that the Irish and Italian machines long ago joined the political mainstream.
 ''I'm the new black politics,'' says Cornell Belcher, a 38-year-old pollster who is working for Obama. ''The people I work with are the new black politics. We don't carry around that history. We see the world through post-civil-rights eyes. I don't mean that disrespectfully, but that's just the way it is. 
 ''I don't want in any way to seem critical of the generation of leadership who fought so I could be sitting here,'' Belcher told me when we met for breakfast at the Four Seasons in Georgetown one morning. He wears his hair in irreverent spikes and often favors tennis shoes with suit jackets. ''Barack Obama is the sum of their struggle. He's the sum of their tears, their fights, their marching, their pain. This opportunity is the sum of that. 
 ''But it's like watching something that you've been working on all your life sort of come together right before your eyes, and you can't see it,'' Belcher said. ''It's like you've been building the Great Wall of China, and you finally put that last stone in. And you can't see it. You just can't see the enormity of it.'' 
 The latest evidence of tension between Obama and some older black leaders burst onto cable television last month, after an open microphone on Fox News picked up the Rev. Jesse Jackson crudely making the point that he wouldn't mind personally castrating his party's nominee. The reverend was angry because Obama, in a Father's Day speech on Chicago's South Side, chastised black fathers for shirking their responsibilities. To Jackson, this must have sounded a lot like a presidential candidate polishing his bona fides with white Americans at the expense of black ones -- something he himself steadfastly refused to do even during his second presidential run in 1988, when he captured more votes than anyone thought possible. 
 Most of the coverage of this minor flap dwelled on the possible animus between Jackson and Obama, despite the fact that Obama himself, who is not easily distracted, seemed genuinely unperturbed by it. But more interesting, perhaps, was the public reaction of Jesse Jackson Jr., the reverend's 43-year-old son, who is a congressman from Illinois and the national co-chairman of Obama's campaign. The younger Jackson released a blistering statement in which he said he was ''deeply outraged and disappointed'' by the man he referred to, a little icily, as ''Reverend Jackson.'' Invoking his father's most famous words, Jesse Jr. concluded, ''He should keep hope alive and any personal attacks and insults to himself.''
 This exchange between the two Jacksons hinted at a basic generational divide on the question of what black leadership actually means. Black leaders who rose to political power in the years after the civil rights marches came almost entirely from the pulpit and the movement, and they have always defined leadership, in broad terms, as speaking for black Americans. They saw their job, principally, as confronting an inherently racist white establishment, which in terms of sheer career advancement was their only real option anyway. For almost every one of the talented black politicians who came of age in the postwar years, like James Clyburn and Charles Rangel, the pinnacle of power, if you did everything right, lay in one of two offices: City Hall or the House of Representatives. That was as far as you could travel in politics with a mostly black constituency. Until the 1990s, even black politicians with wide support among white voters failed in their attempts to win statewide, with only one exception (Edward Brooke, who was elected to the U.S. Senate from Massachusetts in 1966). On a national level, only Jesse Jackson was able to garner a respectable number of white votes, muscling open the door through which Obama, 20 years later, would breezily pass. 
 This newly emerging class of black politicians, however, men (and a few women) closer in age to Obama and Jesse Jr., seek a broader political brief. Comfortable inside the establishment, bred at universities rather than seminaries, they are just as likely to see themselves as ambassadors to the black community as they are to see themselves as spokesmen for it, which often means extolling middle-class values in urban neighborhoods, as Obama did on Father's Day. Their ambitions range well beyond safely black seats. 
 Artur Davis, an Alabama representative and one of the most talked-about young talents on Capitol Hill, recently told me a story about his first campaign for Congress, in 2000, when he challenged the longtime black incumbent Earl Hilliard. Davis was only 32 at the time, a federal prosecutor who graduated from Harvard Law School, and he saw Hilliard as the classic example of a passing political model -- a guy who saw himself principally as a spokesman for the community rather than as an actual legislator. 
 After a debate in which Davis pounded the incumbent for being out of touch with the district, Hilliard took him aside. ''Young man, you have a good political future,'' Davis recalled Hilliard telling him. ''But you've got to learn one basic lesson. You're trying to start at the top, and you can't start at the top in politics.''
 ''With all due respect, Congressman,'' Davis replied, ''I don't think a group with 435 members can be the top of anything.'' 
 Davis lost that race, but he won in a rematch two years later. Now he's weighing a run for governor.
 One telling difference between black representatives of Davis's generation and the more senior set in Washington is how they initially viewed the role of race in this year's primaries. Older members of the Congressional Black Caucus assumed, well into the primary season, that a black candidate wouldn't be able to win in predominantly white states. This, after all, had been their lifelong experience in politics. Not only did Davis, who grew up in post-segregation Montgomery and supported Obama, reject this view, but he also wouldn't concede when we talked that Obama's race was, on balance, a detriment. 
 ''Race was a factor in the contest between Obama and Clinton,'' he told me. ''There's no question race will be a factor with Obama and McCain. But I'm not sure it plays out as neatly as people think. There's no question that some young cohort of white voters were drawn to Obama because they like the idea of a break with the past. A young, white politician from Illinois might not have gotten that support. So race probably cost Obama some votes. And it probably won him some votes. That's the complex reality we're living in.''
 When I met last month with Cory Booker, the mayor of Newark who at 39 is already something of a national sensation, he told me that he had just finished reading, belatedly, Obama's memoir ''Dreams From My Father.'' He said passages about Obama's youth in Hawaii had reminded him of his own experience with subtle racism in the affluent, mostly white suburb of Harrington Park, N.J. ''You know, what it's like growing up every single day and having people ask to touch your hair because they've never seen hair like that,'' Booker said. ''To have the entire class laugh and giggle when somebody pronounces 'Niger' as 'nigger.' The constant bombardment of that kind of thing really affects your spirit, and it's every single day. Like when people want to come back from a vacation and compare their tan to yours and joke about being black.''
 No doubt these were searing experiences for Booker, and I had to wince as he ticked them off, recognizing too much of myself and my white classmates from the 1980s in the imagery. But as Booker himself noted, they are a world away from the reality that was pounded into civil rights activists like his parents, to whom racism meant dogs and hoses and segregated schools and luncheonettes. You can imagine what James Clyburn -- still haunted by the vivid memory of the moment he found out that his erudite father had never been allowed to graduate from high school -- would make of the lifelong trauma caused by suburban kids asking to feel your hair. 
 A Rhodes scholar who graduated from Stanford and Yale Law, Booker won his office in 2006 after first running unsuccessfully in 2002 against the incumbent, Sharpe James, who governed Newark for an astounding 20 years (and was sentenced last month to prison time on federal corruption charges). James was the very model of the Black Power mayor, a defiant spokesman for his community and a deft conjurer of America's racial demons. James derided Booker as a suburban outsider and questioned his blackness. (''You have to learn how to be African-American,'' James said in a speech directed at Booker, ''and we don't have time to train you.'') Booker famously took up residence in a city housing project, but his relationship to Newark's black community was, and still is, more tenuous and complicated than his predecessor's.
 When I asked Booker if he considered himself a leader of the black community, he seemed to freeze for a moment. ''I'm Popeye,'' he replied finally. ''I am what I am.'' He paused again, then tried to explain. 
 ''I don't want to be pigeonholed,'' he said. ''I don't want people to expect me to speak about those issues.'' By this, presumably, he meant issues that revolve around race: profiling by police, incarceration rates, flagging urban economies. ''I want people to ask me about nonproliferation. I want them to run to me to speak about the situation in the Middle East.'' Since the mayor of Newark is rarely called upon to discuss such topics, I got the feeling that Booker does not see himself staying in his current job for anything close to 20 years. ''I don't want to be the person that's turned to when CNN talks about black leaders,'' he said. 
 Even so, Booker told me that his goal wasn't really to ''transcend race.'' Rather, he says that for his generation of black politicians it's all right to show the part of themselves that is culturally black -- to play basketball with friends and belong to a black church, the way Obama has. There is a universality now to the middle-class black experience, he told me, that should be instantly recognizable to Jews or Italians or any other white ethnic bloc that has struggled to assimilate. And that means, at least theoretically, that a black politician shouldn't have to obscure his racial identity.
 ''So Obama's the first one out there on the ice,'' Booker told me. ''This campaign is giving other African-Americans like myself the courage to be themselves.''
 Given this generational perspective, it is easy to understand why Obama's candidacy was greeted coolly by much of Washington's black elite. Obama joined the Congressional Black Caucus when he arrived in 2005, but he attended meetings only sporadically, and it must have been obvious that he never felt he belonged. In part, this was probably because he was the group's only senator and thus had little daily interaction with his colleagues in the House. But to hear those close to Obama tell it, it was also because, like Booker and other younger black politicians, he simply wasn't comfortable categorizing his politics by race. One main function of the black caucus is to raise money through events, because many of the members represent poorer districts. Obama, already a best-selling author by the time he was sworn in, should have been a huge fund-raising draw, but he never showed much interest in headlining caucus events, and he was rarely asked. 
 Jesse Jackson Jr. warned his colleagues in the black caucus of the risks of shunning Obama's candidacy, reminding them of the political aftermath of Jesse Jackson Sr.'s campaigns in the 1980s. Back then, too, most black Congressional Democrats sided with the white presidential candidates, and Jackson carried many of their districts in 1984 and virtually all of them in 1988, driving up voter registration in the process. A result, over the next few election cycles, was a flurry of primary challenges, the retirement or defeat of several incumbents and the arrival in Washington of a new class of black congressmen, including James Clyburn. Jackson's message was clear: even if Obama lost, there could be a cost for opposing him.
 Still, most in the caucus didn't take Obama all that seriously as a potential nominee, and neither did the Clinton campaign. They calculated that he would need a huge share of black votes to wrest the nomination from Hillary, and her advisers, white and black, considered that a near impossibility. ''There was an arrogance and a complete dismissiveness in our campaign against Obama, that he was a lightweight, that he couldn't get black support,'' one senior Clinton aide told me recently. ''A lot of the black leaders didn't know him, didn't think he was black enough, didn't think he was of the civil rights movement.'' This point about whether Obama was ''black enough,'' a senseless distinction to most white voters, came up often in my discussions. It referred to the perception among some black leaders that not only had Obama not shared their generational experience, but also that he hadn't shared the African-American experience, period. Obama's father was a Kenyan academic; his family came to America on scholarship, not in chains.
 Internally, Clinton's strategists set a goal of receiving half the black vote in the Southern primaries, though they calculated that they needed as little as 30 percent in order to beat back Obama. It seemed like a sure bet. Last fall, as the primaries neared, their own polls had them winning more than 60 percent of black voters.
 Within hours of Obama's victory in Iowa, however, Clinton's black support began to crumble. Black voters, young and old, simply hadn't believed that a black man could win in white states; when he did, a wave of pride swept through African-American neighborhoods in the South. Nor did those voters apparently have the deep affection for Hillary Clinton that many of their ministers and local pols did. Carol Willis, a Clinton aide from the Arkansas days who was leading the campaign's outreach to black voters, told me, ''I always heard people saying: 'I know Bill Clinton. I don't know Hillary Clinton. So I'll give Barack Obama a closer hearing.' '' Internal polling in both campaigns after Iowa showed Obama suddenly garnering closer to 75 or 80 percent of the black vote in primary states.
 From then on, the Democratic nomination fight sometimes took on the feel of one of those contentious diversity workshops, with every word parsed for its racial undertone and every emotion rising to the surface. What did Bill Clinton mean by ''naive'' and ''fairy tale''? Was it an accident that Hillary Clinton used the word ''spadework'' to deride her opponent's record? Clyburn and Bill Clinton had long and tense phone conversations because of several comments the former president had made. The one that bothered Clyburn the most, he told me, came when he read in a South Carolina newspaper that Clinton had referred to Obama as a ''kid.'' ''I grew up in the South, where men like Barack Obama, who right now is older than Bill Clinton was when he ran for president, were called 'boy,' '' Clyburn told me. ''And that's what a kid is -- a boy.'' The most damaging moment for Bill Clinton, though, came just after the South Carolina primary, when he waved away the victory by comparing it with Jesse Jackson's wins there in 1984 and 1988. ''There was something about the condescension on his face when he said it and the dismissiveness in his voice,'' Artur Davis recalled. ''It was a verbal pat on the head.''
 In March, shaken by the persistent controversy over comments pulled from the sermons of the Rev. Jeremiah Wright, an icon in Chicago's black community and Obama's former pastor, Obama gave his now famous speech on race. It was aimed, for the most part, at reassuring white voters over the Wright controversy, but it also marked the first time that he publicly addressed the generational divide his own campaign had exposed among black Americans. ''For the men and women of Reverend Wright's generation,'' Obama said, ''the memories of humiliation and doubt and fear have not gone away, nor has the anger and bitterness of those years. . . . At times, that anger is exploited by politicians, to gin up votes along racial lines or to make up for a politician's own failings.'' Some older black politicians may have recognized themselves in Obama's subtle criticism, but those I spoke to said they took pride in seeing a black candidate articulate their experience to white America.
 A lot of black incumbents who supported Clinton now find themselves trying to explain how they ended up so disconnected from their constituents, and many are preparing for their strongest primary challenges in years. (In a primary last month, John Lewis, who had run unopposed since 1992, had to beat not one but two primary opponents, including a 31-year-old minister named Markel Hutchins who designed his campaign to look just like Obama's, right down to renting the same office space and using a red, white and blue logo in the shape of an ''O.'') So far, incumbents facing insurrection over their endorsements of Clinton have easily dispatched their challengers, leading to a collective exhalation inside the black caucus in Washington. But then, as Jesse Jackson Jr. tried to remind his colleagues, the history of black politics is that such challengers are often heard from again.
 On the first Tuesday in July, I traveled to Philadelphia, the site of Obama's landmark speech on race, to see the city's mayor, Michael Nutter. Known as a reformer during a 14-year stint on the City Council, Nutter played a central and intriguing role in this year's presidential contest, emerging as the black face of Hillary Clinton's campaign in Pennsylvania at a time when she desperately needed -- and got -- a solid victory in the state. Nutter certainly wasn't the only visible black politician to campaign for Clinton deep into the primary season, but he was, in some ways, the least likely. Nutter is only four years older than Obama, Ivy League-educated, bookish and doggedly unemotional. He is, in short, the very prototype of the new generation of black political stars. But unlike Cory Booker or Artur Davis or Deval Patrick, the governor of Massachusetts, Nutter sided with Clinton, and he enthusiastically campaigned for her. 
 I was curious to know whether Nutter, who was elected to a four-year term just last fall, was bracing for the consequences of that decision. About 9 of every 10 black voters in Philadelphia pulled the lever for Obama, according to exit polls, and I heard at least one black Obama backer in Washington vow to make Nutter pay for his apostasy. On the day that I visited him at City Hall, his aides had been reviewing the video of a sermon from last fall in which a prominent black minister in the city suggested that Nutter might have a ''white agenda.''
 It was late in the day when Nutter and I sat down at a long conference table in his office, accompanied by the sounds of subway trains rumbling underneath and R & B music piped in from mounted speakers. He told me that he had made his decision methodically and had felt no pressure at all from his constituents.
 Nutter said he sat down with both Clinton and Obama after his election as mayor and quizzed them about urban issues like housing, education and transportation. Race, he said, hadn't entered into this thinking. He understood, he said, why the prospect of a black president after hundreds of years of discrimination was ''powerful stuff'' for a lot of his constituents, but he had a greater responsibility, and that was to run the nation's sixth-largest city. ''In the context of what I do for a living, I've not figured out a black or white way to fill a pothole,'' he said, in a way that made me think he had said this many times before. Nutter was a delegate for Bill Clinton way back in 1992, and he said that the former first lady had shown a ''depth of understanding'' of what cities like Philadelphia were facing. It probably didn't hurt that Obama endorsed one of Nutter's opponents in last year's mayoral primary, either. 
 Nutter said he wasn't bothered by comments that the Clintons or their surrogates made during the campaign that had so incensed other black officials. ''I think there was a lot of sensitivity, some warranted and some unwarranted,'' he said. ''It's based on your life experience, and it's generational. You know, if you have a sore on your arm, you don't necessarily have to touch the sore to feel the pain. You can touch another part of your arm. You've still got a certain sensitivity to it. So if race is the sensitive thing, then anything that even gets close to it -- sounds like it, looks like it, feels like it -- is it.''
 I asked Nutter if, during his private conversations with Obama early in the campaign, the subject of race and the historic nature of his candidacy came up. He stared at me for a moment. ''Um, I knew he was black,'' he said finally. ''I'd really kind of picked up on that.'' 
 Later, when I mentioned that it could be hard for a white journalist to understand all of the nuances of race, he looked over at his press secretary, who is black, and interrupted me. ''He's not black?'' Nutter deadpanned, motioning back at me. ''You guys told me it was a skin condition. I thought I was talking to a brother.'' Nutter is known to have a dry sense of humor, but I also had the sense that he was tweaking me in these moments, watching with some amusement as I tried to navigate subjects that white and black Americans rarely discuss together. He seemed to think I was oddly preoccupied with race.
 In fact, Nutter seemed puzzled by the very notion that he should be expected to support a candidate just because they both had dark skin. ''Look, I never asked anybody to be for me because I was black,'' he said. ''I asked people to be for me because I thought I was the best candidate when I ran for City Council and when I ran for mayor. I'm proud of the votes I received. I'm proud I received the votes of the majority of the African-American community and the majority of the vote from the white community. But I never asked anybody to give me anything because I was black. I asked people to give me a chance because I thought I was the best.''
 For most black Americans, Obama's candidacy represented a kind of racial milestone, the natural next phase of a 50-year movement. But for Michael Nutter, the reverse was also true: not supporting Obama's candidacy marked a kind of progress, too. The movement, after all, was about the freedom to choose your own candidate, white or black. In a sense, you could argue that it was Nutter -- and not those black politicians who embraced Obama because they so closely identified with his racial experience -- who represented the truest embodiment of Obama-ism. Here, perhaps, was a genuine postracial politician, even if that meant being, as John Lewis put it, on the wrong side of history.
 I asked Nutter if he found it insulting to have me come barging into his office, demanding to know why he didn't pick the black guy.
 ''It's not insulting,'' he answered. ''It's presumptuous. It demonstrates a continuation of this notion that the African-American community, unlike any other, is completely monolithic, that everyone in the African-American community does the same thing in lockstep, in contrast to any other group. I mean, I don't remember seeing John Kerry on TV and anybody saying to him, 'I can't believe you're not for Hillary Clinton.' Why?''
 It's inspiring to hear Michael Nutter say that governing a city isn't about race, that there's no black or white way to fill a pothole. And yet, it's also true that in any given American city there are likely to be more potholes in black neighborhoods than in white ones -- along with more violence, more unemployment and more illiteracy. Having grown up in West Philadelphia, Nutter knows well that while the decisions he makes as a mayor have no racial antecedents, rarely do they affect the races equally. ''The challenge there is never forgetting where you came from,'' he told me. ''So, yes, I am mayor of all Philadelphia, but I am quite well aware of, and raise on a regular basis, the fact that the majority of people who are killed in Philadelphia are African-American, that the overwhelming majority of people who have health-care challenges are African-American, that education has tremendous disparity gaps. Unemployment, incarceration, poverty, homelessness, housing -- all affect the African-American community at a disproportionate level as opposed to everyone else.''
 In this way, post-Black Power politicians like Nutter and Booker embody the principal duality of modern black America. On one hand, they are the most visible examples of the highly educated, entrepreneurial and growing black middle class that cultural markers like ''The Cosby Show'' first introduced to white Americans in the 1980s. According to an analysis by Pew's Economic Mobility Project, almost 37 percent of black families fell into one of the three top income quintiles in 2005, compared with 23 percent in 1973. At the same time, though, these black leaders are constantly confronted in their own cities and districts by blighted neighborhoods that are predominately black, places where poverty collects like standing water, breeding a host of social contagions.
 That both of these trend lines can exist at once poses some difficult questions for black leaders and institutions. Back in the heyday of the civil rights movement, the evils and objectives were relatively clear: there were discriminatory laws in place that denied black Americans their rights as citizens, and the goal was to get those laws repealed and to pass more progressive federal legislation at the same time. You marched and you rallied and -- if you had the bravery of a James Clyburn or a John Lewis -- you endured blows to the head and to the spirit, and eventually the barriers started to fall. Things become more complicated, and more confounding, however, when those legal barriers no longer exist and when millions of black Americans are catapulting themselves to success. Now the inequities in the society are subtler -- inferior schools, an absence of employers, a dearth of affordable housing -- and the remedies more elusive. 
 This confusion over the direction of the movement has all but immobilized the nation's premier civil rights group, the N.A.A.C.P. Synonymous with the long journey toward racial equality since its founding by W. E. B. Du Bois and others in 1909, the organization has, in recent years, lost much of its cachet with younger black Americans. In 2005, the N.A.A.C.P.'s unwieldy 64-member board hired Bruce Gordon, a former Verizon executive, to retool the organization. Gordon's premise was that civil rights was no longer simply about protesting discrimination -- that African-Americans were now stymied not only by institutional barriers but also by conditions in their communities. He proposed that a new N.A.A.C.P step into this breach, organizing services that might include SAT prep classes or training for new parents. He also created a new class of online members who didn't have to pay any dues, adding more than 100,000 members to a group whose paying membership had declined, in Gordon's estimate, to under 300,000.
 Gordon's agenda was always controversial among the N.A.A.C.P.'s board members (''Most of them are older than me,'' the 62-year-old Gordon told me), and after a little more than 19 months in the job, Gordon resigned. In May, after a highly contentious process that divided the board once again, the N.A.A.C.P. hired the youngest president in its history, 35-year-old Benjamin Todd Jealous, the chosen candidate of Julian Bond, the civil rights leader and the N.A.A.C.P.'s board chairman.
 You might expect Jealous, a native of mostly white Monterey County, Calif., and a Rhodes scholar, to have shared the racial experience of other emerging black leaders. But generational lines are rarely that neatly drawn, and when we met for breakfast on Independence Day, I was surprised to find that Jealous spoke about race not like Booker or Nutter but much like his heroes of an earlier era. The N.A.A.C.P.'s main job, he told me, was to be the place where African-Americans could turn when institutional racism assaulted their communities. He mentioned the racially charged arrests of six black teenagers in Jena, La., in 2006, as well as the suspicious death, just a few days earlier, of an accused cop killer in his suburban Maryland jail cell.
 ''It's still a human rights struggle,'' Jealous told me. ''This isn't a struggle that began in the 1930s or 1960s. It's a struggle that began in 1620. It's a struggle against slavery and its children.''
 Jealous's main difficulty in rejuvenating the N.A.A.C.P., though, may have less to do with the racist power structure than with a new class of black competitors online. And in this way, what's happening among the black grass roots mirrors what's been happening in the Democratic Party over the last several years, as loyalty to institutions and leaders has given way to a noisy conversation about how to better hold them accountable. A new generation of black activists is now focused on reforming institutions, namely the Congressional Black Caucus and the N.A.A.C.P., that they say have become too mired in the past and too removed from their constituents. And as in the rest of the political world, this rebellion is happening on the Internet, driven by ordinary Americans with laptops and a surprising amount of free time.
 ''The African-American voting population is very much online,'' Cheryl Contee, who in 2006 helped found the blog Jack and Jill Politics, told me. Contee, who is an owner of a digital consulting business, blogs under the pseudonym Jill Tubman, and hers is one of a number of sites that have emerged in just the last year as part of what's often called the ''Afrosphere.'' ''One of the things I talk to clients about is that the digital divide has changed,'' Contee said. ''It's no longer along racial lines like it was in 1996 and 2000. Now it's more economic and educational.'' In other words, after lagging for a time, college-educated African-Americans are now organizing online in the same way as their mostly white counterparts at Daily Kos and MoveOn.org started doing several years ago.
 One of most vibrant voices in this debate belongs to Color of Change, a Web site designed to replicate the MoveOn model among black Web surfers. Two Bay Area activists, Van Jones and James Rucker, founded Color of Change in 2005, a week after the images of devastated black neighborhoods began streaming back from New Orleans. The group now boasts about 425,000 members, about half of whom are white. The bulk of the membership is between the ages of 35 and 55 and probably falls into the categories of middle class or affluent -- in other words, the very people who were once the N.A.A.C.P.'s base of support. Those members pay no dues but contributed about $250,000 during a three-month period in 2007 to pay the legal fees of the defendants in Jena. 
 As in the liberal online community at large, there is not a lot of ideological coherence among the emerging ''black roots.'' There is no clear action plan for how to bridge the divide between middle-class black families and the millions left behind, aside from the same basic antiwar, anticorporate ethos that permeates the rest of the digital left. But there is a strong sense that the leaders of the civil rights generation need some kind of retirement plan, and soon. ''Victims don't make things happen,'' says Rucker, who previously worked for MoveOn. ''Things are changing from where they were 30 years ago. The fights are changing. And you have an infrastructure that's not producing results. Look at the incarceration rates, the difference between whites and blacks. What are the old organizations accomplishing?'' 
 Most of all, the black roots make it clear to elected officials and civil rights advocates that being black doesn't, by itself, make you a leader. Online activists have attacked the Congressional Black Caucus for, among other things, standing by William Jefferson, the black representative accused of stuffing a freezer with cash bribes. They have harshly criticized several caucus members, some for having endorsed Clinton and others, like Artur Davis, for not being sufficiently liberal. Some bloggers went after the Rev. Al Sharpton and the N.A.A.C.P. for reflexively coming to the defense of four black teenagers in West Palm Beach who were charged with taking part in an unusually horrific rape of a mother and her 12-year-old son. (Sharpton and the local N.A.A.C.P. claimed that the boys were being treated differently from accused white rapists in a separate case, who were freed on bail.) Color of Change claims to have raised more than $10,000 and some 50 volunteers for Donna Edwards's successful Web-supported primary campaign against Representative Albert Wynn, a black incumbent who voted for the Iraq war. 
 ''There are some members who need to go or to update and be accountable,'' Rucker told me. ''It's not about getting rid of the N.A.A.C.P. or our members of Congress. It's just wanting to be proud of our leaders.''
 For some black operatives in the Clinton orbit -- people who have functioned, going back to Jesse Jackson's campaigns in the 1980s, as Democratic Washington's liaisons to black America -- the fallout from an Obama victory would likely be profound. ''Some of them will have to walk the plank,'' an Obama adviser told me bluntly. In their place, an Obama administration would empower a cadre of younger black advisers who would instantly become people to see in Washington's transactional culture. Chief among them is Valerie Jarrett, a Chicago real estate developer who is one of Barack and Michelle Obama's closest friends. ''She's poised to be one of the most influential people in politics, and particularly among African-Americans in politics,'' Belcher told me. ''She may be the next Vernon Jordan.'' In fact, the last time I saw Clyburn, he told me he had just spent two and a half hours at breakfast with Jarrett.
 Then there are operatives like Belcher himself; Michael Strautmanis, Obama's former chief counsel and de facto younger brother, who first met Michelle Obama when he was working as a paralegal at her law firm; Matthew Nugen, a political aide who is Obama's point man for the Democratic convention; and Paul Brathwaite, a 37-year-old lobbyist who used to be the executive director of the black caucus and who might act as a bridge between black congressmen and an Obama White House. 
 Should they win in November, Obama and these new advisers will confront an unfamiliar conundrum in American politics, which is how to be president of the United States and, by default, the most powerful voice in black America at the same time. Several black operatives and politicians with whom I spoke worried, eloquently, that an Obama presidency might actually leave black Americans less well represented in Washington rather than more so -- that, in fact, the end of black politics, if that is what we are witnessing, might also mean the precipitous decline of black influence. 
 The argument here is that a President Obama, closely watched for signs of parochialism or racial resentment, would have less maneuvering room to champion spending on the urban poor, say, or to challenge racial injustice. What's more, his very presence in the Rose Garden might undermine the already tenuous case for affirmative action in hiring and school admissions. Obama himself has offered only tepid support for a policy that surely helped enable him to reach this moment. In ''The Audacity of Hope,'' he wrote: ''Even as we continue to defend affirmative action as a useful, if limited, tool to expand opportunity to underrepresented minorities, we should consider spending a lot more of our political capital convincing America to make investments needed to ensure that all children perform at grade level and graduate from high school -- a goal that, if met, would do more than affirmative action to help those black and Latino children who need it the most.''
 Then there are the issues that Ben Jealous and others might raise: black men incarcerated at more than six times the rate of white men, black joblessness more than twice as high as the rate for white Americans. Just talking about such disparities as systemic problems could be harder for an African-American president -- for any African-American, really -- than it was before. ''If Obama is president, it will no longer be tenable to go to the white community and say you've been victimized,'' Artur Davis told me. ''And I understand the poverty and the condition of black America and the 39 percent unemployment rate in some communities. I understand that. But if you go out to the country and say you've been victimized by the white community, while Barack Obama and Michelle and their kids are living in the White House, you will be shut off from having any influence.''
 As a candidate, Obama has outlined an agenda for ''civil rights and criminal justice,'' aimed primarily at urban African-Americans. His platform includes refocusing the Justice Department on hate crimes, banning racial profiling by federal law-enforcement agencies and reforming mandatory minimum sentences (which disproportionately affect black men, especially those convicted on crack-cocaine charges). Obama's black advisers caution, however, that no one should expect him to behave like a civil rights leader, marching alongside Al Sharpton to protest the next Jena or putting black causes ahead of anyone else's. ''It's a very interesting question, but as a black person, you should feel confident that he will focus on your injustices and know that all the other injustices in other communities affect you too,'' Valerie Jarrett told me. ''There have been wounds in all the communities, not just in the black community. There are plenty of wounds to go around.'' 
 If there is any American who can offer a glimpse of what it would be like for Obama as president, it's probably Gov. Deval Patrick of Massachusetts. While most of the younger black politicians know one another only from the occasional encounter or phone call, Patrick and Obama shared a cup of coffee, at the suggestion of a mutual friend, in the mid-1990s and developed a close friendship. (The senator even borrowed some of Patrick's oratory during the primaries, which led the Clinton camp to charge plagiarism.) Patrick was Coca-Cola's general counsel and the assistant attorney general for civil rights in the Clinton administration before he became, in 2006, only the second black man to be elected governor in American history, following L. Douglas Wilder in Virginia in 1989.
 When we talked recently, Patrick explained for me some of the inherent pressures that come with being a black executive in a state with a history of frictionamong the races. ''You're constantly tested by a whole host of factors to see whether you're speaking for the entire Commonwealth or just for one community,'' Patrick told me. ''I don't fit in any box, and I think that's what the electorate has had to learn about me.''
 Black ministers were slow to embrace Patrick after he supported gay marriage as a candidate and refused to back down. After a black child was shot and killed in Boston last year, Patrick told me, he sent a note to the family and prepared to attend the funeral service, but relatives held a news conference at which they criticized him for not coming by to pay his respects. (Patrick later grew close to the family.) I remarked that it was usually the city's mayor who was expected to comfort victims of urban crime.
 ''Yes, but it's not good enough for me to have the reaction that you just did, to say I'm the governor, not the mayor,'' Patrick told me. ''They expect more.'' In other words, he was expected not only to be a governor but also to fill the traditional role of the black politician -- that of spokesman, minister and conduit to the white establishment.
 Patrick and I spoke just a week after Jesse Jackson was caught wishing Obama bodily harm. ''You wouldn't believe how many times in the last few days people have stuck microphones in my face to ask my opinion about Jesse Jackson's comments,'' he said, sounding a little exasperated. He had declined to offer one. ''I don't have to be the black oracle,'' Patrick told me. ''All I have to be is as good a human being and as good a governor as I can be, and the rest will take care of itself.'' If Obama's day comes, he might want to think about borrowing those words too. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative James Clyburn of South Carolina (1)
Representative John Lewis of Georgia (2)
Representative Artur Davis of Alabama (3)
and Mayor Michael Nutter of Philadelphia (4). (MM 34 and 35)
Cornell Belcher, 38-year-old Obama pollster. (MM 38)
 Cory Booker, 39-year-old mayor of Newark. (MM 41) (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NIGEL PARRY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CAUCUSES (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (70%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (65%); RANKINGS (64%)

PERSON: JAMES CLYBURN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); ARTUR DAVIS (56%); JOHN LEWIS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (92%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (59%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



257 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: A Budget Lean Enough to Withstand Crisis?

BYLINE: By CAREN CHESLER

 BODY:
WHILE New York Gov. David A. Paterson is warning that his state faces a 1970s-style fiscal crisis, Gov. Jon S. Corzine said that New Jersey taxpayers don't have to worry about finding a similar fate with the recently approved state budget, at least for now.
 In an interview last week, Governor Corzine said that his administration and lawmakers took into account concerns about the economy and had already agreed on trimming spending and making tough cuts as part of the state budget for the new fiscal year, which began July 1. 
 ''We're following our revenues to see if they fall more than we anticipated, but we already anticipated revenues that were associated with a recession,'' Mr. Corzine said in a telephone interview. 
 He said when his administration was hammering out the 2009 budget earlier this year, it was already working with conservative revenue projections, but after seeing lower sales tax revenues, it scaled them back another $200 million. 
 With lower revenues, officials made what Mr. Corzine described as ''heartbreaking'' cuts in almost every area of state government, from higher education to hospitals. 
 There were cuts in pension and health benefits for new state workers and public-school teachers and reductions in state aid to hospitals and municipalities. Also, the Personnel Department and the Department of Commerce were eliminated. The retirement age for new public employees was raised to 62 from 60. And Lincoln's Birthday was eliminated as a holiday after 2011. Because of the changes, the $32.9 billion budget was $600 million less than the previous year.
 ''If the recession gets deeper, we'll have to come back with additional cuts,'' Governor Corzine said. ''But we tried to allow for that when we put our budget together, for good reason.'' 
 New Jersey officials may have had a better view of the extent of the downturn because while New York's economy was being buffered by the ebullient housing market, New Jersey was feeling the financial woes of the telecom and pharmaceutical industries, which have a heavy presence in the state, analysts said.
 ''New Jersey's economy was a little weaker a little earlier than New York's,'' said Robert Kurtter, a managing director at Moody's Investor Service. ''Corzine has been talking in New Jersey about the impact of the financial services sector and the weaker economy for a year and a half now.''
 But all of that preparation may not be enough to avert a crisis if the recession is far worse than anyone anticipated. Indeed, state budget officials, as well as the bond rating agencies, said they were monitoring the situation closely. The first indication of whether and how much income tax revenues are likely to drop won't be in until October, when the first quarter tax revenue figures are released. In New York, whose budget cycle begins April 1, first quarter tax receipts have already come in $453 million below projections.
 ''We're watching it, and we're concerned, but the fact that they've taken action in this budget is a good step in recognizing the tighter times ahead,'' said Karl Jacob, a senior director who covers New Jersey for Standard & Poor's. ''Because of their restraints on spending, and the assumptions they used in terms of personal income tax growth, I think they're a little bit ahead of the game.''
 One of the big wild cards will be the extent of the damage on Wall Street. While New York may feel the brunt of a prolonged downturn in the financial services industry, New Jersey will share in those woes because of the large numbers of people who live in the state and work in that sector. In a good year, the financial services industry generates as much as 40 percent of the state's tax revenues. 
 ''It's a big swing element, what bonuses are, and what the earnings of the firms are,'' Governor Corzine said. ''It's something we're very concerned about.''
 Just how grim the revenue picture is will not be clear until next April, when people file their income tax returns. At that point, if tax revenues fall well short of projections, the government could be forced to hold back expenditures. 
 ''There's a lot of uncertainty until then,'' said David J. Rosen, legislative budget and finance officer. ''But we don't see anything yet that suggests to us there's a problem.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); SALES TAX (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (74%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); HUMAN RESOURCES (71%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (71%); HOUSING MARKET (71%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (68%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (66%); RETIREMENT AGE (66%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (66%); BONDS (64%); BANKING & FINANCE (61%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (60%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (90%); DAVID PATERSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



258 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Putting Water Ahead of Natural Gas

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

 BODY:
It wasn't quite Barack Obama in Berlin, just a city councilman from Queens standing behind a makeshift lectern on the sidewalk outside his office and trying to talk to four reporters, most of them from small news outlets, over the sound of buses wheezing along Union Turnpike.
 But if Councilman James F. Gennaro's press conference Friday with two environmental leaders barely moved the needle on the summer news meter, it almost certainly was a window onto the biggest environmental issue almost no one in New York City is paying attention to. 
 It has slowly dawned on people, among them Mr. Gennaro, chairman of the Council's Environmental Protection Committee, that there's one very big local angle to the distant and still exotic notion of major energy companies descending on upstate New York to drill for natural gas in the Marcellus Shale formation.
 A large chunk of that area is the 2,000-square-mile watershed where New York City gets its water, which comes unfiltered through the city's reservoirs and aqueducts to nine million people, or roughly half the state's residents. That raises the obvious questions: Should there be gas drilling in the watershed and, if so, can it be done without imperiling the federal waiver that has allowed New York to avoid building a filtration plant that would cost $10 billion to $12 billion?
 Mr. Gennaro, a geologist who has studied petroleum engineering, said the answers are an emphatic ''no'' and ''no.'' And he said that the State Legislature and Gov. David A. Paterson, dazzled by the prospect of gas-industry riches, have been negligent in not ruling out development in the watershed. Sophisticated new wells using hydraulic fracturing use a million gallons of chemically treated water to break up subterranean shale and release the gas inside. Over the next two decades, there could be thousands of wells upstate.
 ''This is an activity that is completely and utterly inconsistent with a drinking water supply,'' he said. ''This cannot happen. This would destroy the New York City watershed, and for what? For short-term gains on natural gas? We're not saying no exploration for natural gas anywhere in New York State. We're saying the part of New York State that is the New York City reservoir system should be off limits to this kind of activity.''
 Mr. Gennaro, who appeared with officials from the environmental groups Riverkeeper and the Natural Resources Defense Council, is one small player in a very big game. (Riverkeeper called for a permanent ban on drilling in the watershed.) But he seems intent on ringing the bell loudly over an issue that so far has been the subject of quiet, low-profile discussion between city and state agencies, but of very little public discussion.
 He is calling for a yearlong moratorium on gas drilling in and around the watershed and plans to hold public hearings on the issue in early September. He has also asked the Environmental Protection Agency to render a formal opinion on whether gas drilling could put the city's filtration waiver at risk.
 There are more than three dimensions of chess in gaming this out. 
 There is the utterly fortuitous prospect of a lucrative gas boom coming at a time when New York is desperate for new revenue, and upstate is equally desperate for new economic activity. There is the national energy crunch to push for domestic exploration. There is the eternal conflict between upstate and downstate over water issues and land rights. There are conflicting instincts among landowners: hope of winning the gas lottery versus fear about the consequences for the environment and on the quality of life in their communities.
 Industry officials, who have largely kept a low profile, say that they welcome state oversight and that the industry has a track record of being environmentally responsible. But they also warn that a drilling moratorium or undue regulation could discourage production.
 ''New York has to be careful how it deals with these issues so it doesn't send a negative signal to the industry that chills the interest in the play in New York State,'' said Tom West, an Albany lawyer who represents several gas companies. ''These companies have limited investment dollars, and they're going to invest them where the natural gas opportunities exist and where there's a regulatory climate that promotes it.''
 This is all early. State officials say there are only six drilling proposals on file, none of them in the watershed. No one knows how much gas will be found upstate. Most of the gas-rich areas are outside the watershed, so companies may just avoid areas where the environmental bar is highest. And Judith Enck, Mr. Paterson's deputy secretary for the environment, said an updated environmental impact review demanded by the governor would ensure that all drilling proposals get a thorough analysis.
 But asked about declaring the watershed off limits, she said: ''We're not willing to say that a large piece of geography should be off the table. The governor agrees that the New York City watershed is absolutely critical and must be protected, but he also believes you can have economic development and protect the watershed at the same time.''
 Mr. Gennaro said that's too much to take on faith.
 ''Unlike natural gas, which we can get from other places in the Marcellus Shale, we have no other place to go for our drinking water. This is it. We have one and only one drinking water system.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (87%); ENGINEERING (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); NATURAL GAS EXPLORATION (73%); OIL EXTRACTION (73%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (73%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (73%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); DAVID PATERSON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



259 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: A Familiar Tax Tune, But It's Not Mine

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
A FEW days ago, I saw Senator John McCain on television saying something I had heard a few times before. Basically, he said that if you want to have your taxes raised, don't vote for him.
 Let me start by saying that I am a huge fan of Senator McCain. He's got guts. He had a harrowing five years in captivity for his country. His son serves in Iraq and the senator never talks about it. 
 And, I do not want my taxes raised. I already pay a staggering amount of tax and I don't care for it. In fact, I would like to pay no tax at all. I could have so much more to prepare for onrushing old age. 
 But the unhappy fact is that it's necessary to raise my taxes and the taxes of all upper-income Americans. (I do wish, however, that ''upper income'' started just a dollar above me.)
 The sad truth of the last two two-term Republican presidents is that their economic premise, the key part of their economic game plan, simply has not done what it's supposed to do.
 That is, cutting taxes, especially on upper-income Americans, does not generate so much economic activity that it replaces all the lost I.R.S. take and then some. At least those have been the results so far. When Ronald Reagan lowered taxes, personal income tax revenue stagnated from 1982 to 1984. Now, you may say that revenue rose sharply after that. So maybe that was a mixed result. 
 But when President Bush drastically cut taxes after he was first elected, the I.R.S. take from individual income taxes fell and did not recover its 2001 level until 2006.A conservative purist might rejoin here that it would be fine if income tax receipts fell, because we would then have a smaller government and a freer society. 
 That would be nice, but far from true. Instead, government just keeps growing. Government spending grew dramatically under President Reagan, very nearly doubling, and leaving us with a federal deficit vastly bigger than the one he inherited. I know that a large chunk of that increase was to rebuild the military. I heartily approved of it. 
 But if you want to have a military buildup -- and we need one now, desperately -- that's usually a reason to raise taxes, not cut them.
 Under the current president, we have had the same story. As income tax receipts fell, military and other spending rose rapidly. Again, this spending was justified as far as I'm concerned. But we have been left with immense deficits and a doubled national debt as President Bush enters his final months in office.
 Mr. McCain wants to extend many of President Bush's income tax cuts and to reduce taxes on corporations. But the facts of life are that we have a large budget deficit, even though some other nations have even larger deficits as percentages of gross domestic product. We have to pay interest on it. As a people and a nation, we owe this money in large part to foreigners -- and that can have political implications. The facts of life are that federal spending is almost all untouchable: the military, Social Security, Medicare, interest on the debt, pensions. The discretionary part is tiny.
 Every category of federal spending is likely to grow. This means that if we don't raise taxes, if we keep doing what we're doing, the immense deficits and debt will not go away -- and will probably grow.
 The question is simply this: Do we want to step up to the plate like responsible people -- I hate to say this, but the last responsible people who actually did this were named Bill and Bob (Clinton and Rubin) -- and shoulder our responsibilities? Or do we just kick the can down the road a bit and leave the mess for our children and their children? 
 And if we do raise taxes, should people who are barely getting by pay them or should people who are getting by very nicely pay them? 
 I don't like taxing rich people or anyone I like. But our government -- run by the people we elected -- needs the revenue. Do we pay it or do we make our children pay it? Dwight D. Eisenhower -- and Bill Clinton -- knew the answer: You behave responsibly and balance the budget except in rare circumstances.
 Somehow, Republicans (and I am a Republican) have forgotten this basic lesson of adulthood. Maybe Senator McCain is grown up enough to remind us of the real urgency of personal and national responsibility. Or maybe not. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PHILIP ANDERSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); CONSERVATISM (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (65%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



260 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Candidates' Reactions to Georgia Conflict Offer Hints at Style on Foreign Affairs

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER; Elisabeth Bumiller reported from Las Vegas, and Michael Falcone from Honolulu.

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS 

 BODY:
When Russian troops rolled into South Ossetia on Friday, Senator John McCain's response was immediate and tough.
 Russia had crossed ''an internationally recognized border into the sovereign territory of Georgia'' and should ''unconditionally cease its military operations and withdraw all forces,'' said Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, in a statement delivered at an airport.
 Senator Barack Obama, his Democratic rival, trod more carefully, a characteristic of his approach to foreign affairs. In an initial statement released by his campaign, he did not directly blame Russia and instead offered a more measured response, which largely echoed the official comments of the European Union, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and President Bush. 
 ''Now is the time for Georgia and Russia to show restraint and to avoid an escalation to full-scale war,'' Mr. Obama said in the statement, which focused on negotiations and concluded that ''all sides should enter into direct talks on behalf of stability in Georgia.'' 
 Mr. Obama did harden his rhetoric later on Friday, shortly before getting on a plane for a vacation in Hawaii. His initial statement, an adviser said, was released before there were confirmed reports of the Russian invasion. In his later statement, Mr. Obama said, ''What is clear is that Russia has invaded Georgia's sovereign -- has encroached on Georgia's sovereignty, and it is very important for us to resolve this issue as quickly as possible.''
 The two responses to the events, delivered in the midst of the political calculations of a presidential campaign, were indicators of how Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama might respond to a crisis with international implications.
 The fighting, which began when Georgian forces tried to retake the capital of South Ossetia from insurgents in the pro-Russian region of the Caucasus, was developing into the worst clash for Russia since its troops invaded Afghanistan in the 1980s.
 In Mr. McCain's case, he spoke to two people on Friday before making his statement: President Mikheil Saakashvili of Georgia, whom he has known since 1997, and Stephen J. Hadley, the White House national security adviser. Mr. Saakashvili has been criticized for cracking down on demonstrators last year, but Mr. McCain has been a longtime ally.
 Mr. McCain first heard about the crisis shortly before leaving Cincinnati for Des Moines on Friday morning, and to gather more information he made phone calls from his car on the way to the airport. To prepare a statement, he then relied on his foreign policy staff, including Randy Scheunemann, his chief foreign policy aide, whose firm has lobbied for Georgia for the past four years. Mr. Scheunemann, who has worked for Mr. McCain's campaign since early 2007, took a leave from his firm, Orion Strategies LLC, in March of this year.
 After talking with his aides, Mr. McCain worked on his campaign plane with Mark Salter, one of his closest advisers, on the wording of the statement. He delivered it on the tarmac upon landing in Des Moines. 
 Mr. McCain spoke to Mr. Saakashvili again on Saturday and issued another statement, saying ''It is clear the situation is dire,'' and reiterating his call for Russia to withdraw. He also said he was pleased at efforts by the United States, the European Union and NATO to broker a cease-fire.
 For Mr. Obama, his response came in several stages, and by Saturday his campaign stepped up the rhetoric once again. ''Clearly over the course of the last 24 hours this crisis has escalated,'' said Ben Rhodes, a foreign policy aide. ''Clearly Russia bears the responsibility for that escalation.'' 
 On Friday, some of Mr. Obama's top foreign policy advisers -- including Mr. Rhodes -- worked out the initial statement and then later the statement from Mr. Obama. 
 Mr. Obama was briefed on Friday by Mr. Hadley. On Saturday afternoon, Mr. Obama's advisers said, he spoke about the crisis to Mr. Saakashvili and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice.
 Both campaigns also used the crisis to engage in their now-daily political combat, which in this round focused on Mr. Scheunemann and his ties to Georgia.
 ''John McCain's top foreign policy adviser lobbied for, and has a vested interest in, the Republic of Georgia, and McCain has mirrored the position advocated by the government,'' said Hari Sevugan, a spokesman for the Obama campaign, who added that the ''appearance of a conflict of interest'' was a consequence of McCain's close ties to lobbyists.
 Mr. Salter, of the McCain campaign, dismissed the criticism. ''In the middle of an international crisis, in which people are getting killed,'' he said, ''the best the Obama campaign can come up with is to cast aspersions on a McCain staffer.''
 Mr. Salter acknowledged that Mr. Scheunemann had lobbied for Georgia, but said that Mr. McCain ''has been involved in the efforts of former Soviet Republics to embrace democracy and free market values since the end of the Cold War.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (58%)

COMPANY: STRATEGIES LLC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (60%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); GEORGIA (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



261 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 10, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1767 words

HEADLINE: Embracing a Free-Form Style, McCain Leads a Camp Divided

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and JIM RUTENBERG; Michael Cooper contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senator John McCain is so quick to pick up his gold-colored cellphone to solicit advice -- from senators, campaign consultants, even the stray former deputy press secretary -- that aides, concerned about his tendency to adopt the last opinion he has heard, have tried to cut back on the time he has to make calls.
 Mr. McCain is known to sign off on big campaign decisions and then to march off his own reservation. Two weeks ago, he publicly disagreed with his own spokeswoman, Jill Hazelbaker, after she used a line of attack against Senator Barack Obama that he had approved after careful strategizing within his campaign. Ms. Hazelbaker raced out of the Virginia campaign headquarters and refused to take Mr. McCain's calls of apology, aides said, and a plan to have Republican members of Congress use the same critical line about Mr. Obama's foreign trip fell apart.
 Out of his hearing, Mr. McCain is called the White Tornado by some people who have worked for him over the years. Throughout his presidential campaign, he has been the overseer of a kingdom of dissenting camps, unclear lines of command and an unsettled atmosphere that keeps aides constantly on edge. 
 Even now, after a shake-up that aides said had brought an unusual degree of order to Mr. McCain's disorderly world in the last month, two of his pollsters are at odds over parts of the campaign's message, while past and current aides have been trading snippy exchanges debating the wisdom of attack advertisements he has aimed at Mr. Obama.
 In an interview, Mr. McCain said he believed an organization consisting of sometimes colliding centers of power made sure that a candidate, or a president, reached fully informed decisions. ''You've got to have competing opinions,'' he said. 
 ''I think a certain amount of tension is very healthy, and a certain amount of different views,'' he said. ''Because of the bubble that a president is in, and the bubble that a candidate is in, sometimes you find out afterwards something that -- 'Oh boy, I wish I had heard thus and such and so and so.' So I appreciate and want some of the tension; I don't want too much of it, obviously, because we have to have certain efficiencies. But I think there is a balance there.''
 Mr. McCain hungers for information. He can regularly be seen reading newspapers from cover to cover, and aides say he embraces the briefing books given to him each night. His aides say he is especially studious when it comes to economic issues, an area in which he has admitted weakness. A former fighter pilot, Mr. McCain preaches the need to improvise under pressure, subscribing to the military maxim that no plan survives first contact with the enemy. The bursts of temper fellow senators have endured are rarely directed at his underlings. Indeed Mr. McCain has a history of being surrounded by people who are intensely loyal to him -- and remain so even after being pushed off his ship.
 But if Mr. McCain's management style has kept him well informed and flexible, its drawbacks have been especially evident in the many often turbulent months since he began his campaign for the Republican presidential nomination. It offers a contrast to the more rigidly controlled and nearly corporate management style that has marked the campaign of Mr. Obama, his Democratic counterpart. If anything, it recalls the freewheeling ways of the last Republican senator to win his party's presidential nomination, Bob Dole in 1996.
 Mr. McCain's style contains contradictions, veering between a shoot-from-the-hip tendency and assertions of damn-the-consequences authenticity on the one hand and a grudging acceptance on the other of the need to give in to the discipline of programmed politics. While he avidly seeks advice and contrary opinions, he routinely resists basic political counseling, such as when aides pleaded with him not to campaign sitting on a horseshoe-shaped couch in the back of his bus because they feared it made him look like an old man rumbling around the country in an R.V. He refused.
 His management of his campaign offers a glimpse of how he might run the White House. He would, it appears, be a president who is intensely interested in issues (particularly foreign affairs) and open to conflicting opinions, but also impetuous at times and tolerant of the kind of internal churning that can impede orderly decision-making and keep aides on edge.
 While President Bush has been criticized for being too insular and too slow to adapt to changing circumstances, Mr. McCain's leadership of his campaign suggests a less hierarchical, more free-form style, much closer to that of President Bill Clinton.
 For now, Mr. McCain's executive style looms as a potential obstacle to his hopes of getting to the White House. His campaign has been rocked by personnel changes and often well-publicized differences. And for all the efforts to maintain discipline, he continues to be plagued by misstatements and apparent gaffes as he at times bucks what his own campaign is trying to do. After his campaign spent days mocking Mr. Obama for suggesting that proper tire pressure was one way of conserving fuel, Mr. McCain undercut the message, stating : ''Senator Obama a couple of days ago said that we ought to all inflate our tires, and I don't disagree with that. The American Automobile Association strongly recommends it.''
 As Mr. Obama's campaign pounced on the remark, the McCain campaign quickly sent out an e-mail message to reporters noting that Mr. McCain had gone on to say that he did not believe that would lead to energy independence.
 By all accounts, the most recent shake-up of his campaign has helped. It put Steve Schmidt -- a former marine known for a tough management style who made clear he would leave if he was not given the authority to impose discipline -- in a senior role at headquarters, working alongside Rick Davis, a longtime survivor of the McCain staff wars. 
 Mr. Schmidt has sought to cut down on Mr. McCain's use of his cellphone and limit the people who have regular access to Mr. McCain in an effort to keep him more focused, advisers said. He has been the impetus for an effort by Mr. McCain to limit sharply his engagements with reporters, the kind of freewheeling encounters that Mr. McCain enjoys -- and that helped him charm the news media for years -- but that often lead him to veer from his campaign's message of the day.
 There are 8 a.m. calls every day in which the campaign settles on the daily message or attack. Someone in Mr. McCain's entourage -- typically Nicolle Wallace, a Schmidt ally and a veteran of Mr. Bush's 2004 campaign and White House who recently joined the campaign as a traveling senior adviser -- is given the responsibility of making sure Mr. McCain agrees to the message and tries to stick to it.
 ''Now there is a management structure,'' Ms. Wallace said. ''It is formally headed by Steve and Rick. This is one of the things that has been improved.''
 Mr. McCain seems to draw much of his management philosophy from his military experience. He has cited as evidence of his executive ability his role reviving the Navy's largest air squadron, the beleaguered VA 174, the Replacement Air Group at Cecil Field in Jacksonville, Fla., in 1975. It had about 50 planes, half ''in such bad shape that they had to be grounded,'' as he put it when challenged at a Republican debate last October about his management credentials.
 ''Soldiers are taught to expect the unexpected and accept it, and revise, improvise, and fight their way through any adversity,'' he said as he recounted how he turned around the operation.
 In his campaign, Mr. McCain weighs in on all major decisions, but does not get involved in too many details. He has explicitly signed off on every major new line of attack and new advertisement, watching the advertisements on a laptop, aides said. 
 But unlike Mr. Bush or Mr. Clinton, Mr. McCain has displayed no particular interest in or knowledge of the minutiae of politics. He rarely gets involved with discussions about what states he should visit, other than to insist that he spend a day or two at home in Arizona most weekends. One of his pollsters, Bill McInturff, said that Mr. McCain was not the kind of candidate who asked to look at the detailed cross-tabs of every poll.
 ''The guy's incredibly engaged in this process,'' Mr. McInturff said, ''but he's not a client who has much tolerance for sitting through an hourlong presentation, or 30- to 40-minute presentation of slides and charts.'' Mr. McCain's advisers said he pays more attention to his campaign's spending and fund-raising than he did before it nearly went broke in July 2007. Mr. McCain told friends he was surprised -- and mortified -- when that happened. Mark McKinnon, a former adviser, pointed to Mr. McCain's reaction to that crisis -- slashing staff and dismissing some senior advisers -- as evidence of management strength. ''He did all the things you need to do to right the ship,'' Mr. McKinnon said.
 Yet even now the campaign continues to have its share of drama. Several Republicans in regular contact with the campaign said two pollsters, Mr. McInturff and Ed Goeas, had fundamental differences over the campaign's message. They said the two differed over the degree to which Mr. McCain should establish his differences with Mr. Bush and the extent to which he should run on a ''Washington is broken'' message, which Mr. Goeas supports. 
 Mr. McInturff declined to comment when asked about the divisions. But, he said more broadly, ''there can be differences of thought, but campaigns don't collapse because you have differences of opinion.'' Mr. Goeas did not return calls.
 Mr. McCain also tolerates, or, some aides said, encourages, tension in his upper ranks. He did nothing to tamp down a wave of speculation this summer that his former chief campaign strategist, Mike Murphy, would be brought back into the fold, reports that set off waves of tensions among other aides who had a history of battling with Mr. Murphy. Mr. Murphy ultimately announced he was taking a job at MSNBC. 
 In recent weeks, Mr. Murphy and another former top aide, John Weaver, were critical of Mr. McCain's advertisements attacking Mr. Obama. The two men privately urged Mr. Schmidt and Charlie Black, a senior adviser, to get off that course and spend as much time building up Mr. McCain as tearing down Mr. Obama, advice also offered by a member of Mr. McCain's panel of outside advertising consultants, Alex Castellanos. They met stiff, angry resistance, several people familiar with the episode said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 12, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about the management style of An article on Sunday about the management style of Senator John McCain misstated the background of one of Mr. McCain's senior advisers, Steve Schmidt, in some editions. Mr. Schmidt is not a former marine, and has never served in the military.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator John McCain with Steve Schmidt, left, a top adviser known for imposing discipline. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); INTERVIEWS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); APPROVALS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (53%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); BARACK OBAMA (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008



262 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Can It Happen Here?

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
The draft Democratic Party platform that was sent out last week puts health care reform front and center. ''If one thing came through in the platform hearings,'' says the document, ''it was that Democrats are united around a commitment to provide every American access to affordable, comprehensive health care.'' 
 Can Democrats deliver on that commitment? In principle, it should be easy. In practice, supporters of health care reform, myself included, will be hanging on by their fingernails until legislation is actually passed. 
 What's easy about guaranteed health care for all? For one thing, we know that it's economically feasible: every wealthy country except the United States already has some form of guaranteed health care. The hazards Americans treat as facts of life -- the risk of losing your insurance, the risk that you won't be able to afford necessary care, the chance that you'll be financially ruined by medical costs -- would be considered unthinkable in any other advanced nation.
 The politics of guaranteed care are also easy, at least in one sense: if the Democrats do manage to establish a system of universal coverage, the nation will love it. 
 I know that's not what everyone says; some pundits claim that the United States has a uniquely individualistic culture, and that Americans won't accept any system that makes health care a collective responsibility. Those who say this, however, seem to forget that we already have a program -- you may have heard of it -- called Medicare. It's a program that collects money from every worker's paycheck and uses it to pay the medical bills of everyone 65 and older. And it's immensely popular.
 There's every reason to believe that a program that extends universal coverage to the nonelderly would soon become equally popular. Consider the case of Massachusetts, which passed a state-level plan for universal coverage two years ago. 
 The Massachusetts plan has come in for a lot of criticism. It includes individual mandates -- that is, people are required to buy coverage, even if they'd prefer to take their chances. And its costs are running much higher than expected, mainly because it turns out that there were more people without insurance than anyone realized. 
 Yet recent polls show overwhelming support for the plan -- support that has grown stronger since it went into effect, despite the new system's teething troubles. Once a system of universal health coverage exists, it seems, people want to keep it.
 So why be nervous about the prospects for reform? Because it's hard to get universal care established in the first place. There are, I'd argue, three big hurdles.
 First, the Democrats have to win the election -- and win it by enough to face down Republicans, who are still, 42 years after Medicare went into operation, denouncing ''socialized medicine.'' 
 Second, they have to overcome the public's fear of change. 
 Some health care reformers wanted the Democrats to endorse a single-payer, Medicare-type system for all. On the sheer economic merits, they're right: single-payer would be more efficient than a system that preserves a role for private insurance companies.
 But it's better to have an imperfect universal health care plan than none at all -- and the only way to get a universal health care plan passed soon is to inoculate it against Harry-and-Louise-type claims that people will be forced into plans ''designed by government bureaucrats.'' So the Democratic platform emphasizes choice, declaring that Americans ''should have the option of keeping the coverage they have or choosing from a wide array of health insurance plans, including many private health insurance options and a public plan.'' We'll see if that's enough.
 The final hurdle facing health care reform is the risk that the next president and Congress will lose focus. There will be many problems crying out for solutions, from a weak economy to foreign policy crises. It will be easy and tempting to put health care on the back burner for a bit -- and then forget about it. 
 So I'm nervous. The history of the pursuit of universal health care in America is one of missed chances, of political opportunities frittered away. Let's hope that this time is different.
 One more thing: if we do get real health care reform, a lot of people will owe a debt of gratitude to none other than John Edwards. When Mr. Edwards dropped out of the presidential race, I credited him with making universal health care a ''possible dream for the next administration.'' Mr. Edwards's political career is over -- but perhaps he and his family can take some solace from the fact that his party is still trying to make that dream come true. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (73%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); MEDICARE (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2008



263 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 82 words

HEADLINE: Fort Ticonderoga In Financial Crunch

BYLINE: Compiled by JULIE BOSMAN

 BODY:
The trustees for Fort Ticonderoga, the historic site in upstate New York, are considering the sale of valuable artifacts to escape a financial crunch, according to The Associated Press. The fort, a National Historic Landmark that was the site of a bloody battle (1758) during the French and Indian War, recently lost the financial support of a major donor, Forrest E. Mars Jr., according to an e-mail message obtained by the news agency, and attendance has dropped off sharply in recent years. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2008



264 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: LOOKING AHEAD

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
SIGNALS ON THE ECONOMY Economic reports will include the trade deficit for June (Tuesday); retail sales for July, import prices for July and business inventories for June (Wednesday); the Consumer Price Index for July (Thursday); and industrial production and capacity utilization for July and the Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index (Friday). 
 COMPANY REPORTS Earnings reports will be dominated by retailers, including TJX (Tuesday); Macy's (Wednesday); Nordstrom, Wal-Mart and Kohl's (Thursday); and J. C. Penney (Friday).
 Other reports will come from Liberty Media (Monday); ThomsonReuters and UBS (Tuesday); and Deere (Wednesday).
 ET CETERA A bankruptcy judge in Pittsburgh is to review an agreement in which Countrywide Financial agreed to pay a bankruptcy trustee $325,000 to settle accusations that it sought improper fees or payments from bankrupt homeowners and otherwise violated court orders and regulations in nearly 300 cases (Monday).
 The American Bar Association will wrap up its 131st annual meeting in New York (Monday and Tuesday).
 President Bush meets with the Coalition for Affordable American Energy (Tuesday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVENTORIES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); LITIGATION (73%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (72%); JUDGES (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2008



265 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: Giant Retailers Look to the Sun for Energy Savings

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM; James Kanter contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Retailers are typically obsessed with what to put under their roofs, not on them. Yet the nation's biggest store chains are coming to see their immense, flat roofs as an untapped resource.
 In recent months, chains including Wal-Mart Stores, Kohl's, Safeway and Whole Foods Market have installed solar panels on roofs of their stores to generate electricity on a large scale. One reason they are racing is to beat a Dec. 31 deadline to gain tax advantages for these projects.
 So far, most chains have outfitted fewer than 10 percent of their stores. Over the long run, assuming Congress renews a favorable tax provision and more states offer incentives, the chains promise a solar construction program that would ultimately put panels atop almost every big store in the country.
 The trend, while not entirely new, is accelerating as the chains seize a chance to bolster their environmental credentials by cutting back on their use of electricity from coal. 
 ''It's very clear that green energy is now front and center in the minds of the business sector,'' said Daniel M. Kammen, an energy expert at the University of California, Berkeley. ''Not only will you see panels on the roofs of your local stores, but I suspect very soon retailers will have stickers in their windows saying, 'This is a green energy store.' ''
 In the coming months, 85 Kohl's stores will get solar panels; 43 already have them. ''We want to keep pushing as many as we possibly can,'' said Ken Bonning, executive vice president for logistics at Kohl's. 
 Macy's, which has solar panels atop 18 stores, plans to install them on another 40 by the end of this year. Safeway is aiming to put panels atop 23 stores. And other chains, including Whole Foods Market, BJ's Wholesale Club and REI, the purveyor of outdoor goods, are planning projects of their own.
 Wal-Mart, the nation's largest retailer, has 17 stores and distribution centers with solar panels in operation or in the testing phase. It plans to add them soon to five more stores. People at the chain are considering a far larger program that would put panels and other renewable technologies at hundreds of stores.
 ''It's going to be the Wal-Marts of the world that will buy these things over acres and make a difference,'' said Roger G. Little, chairman and chief executive of the Spire Corporation, a Boston company that provides solar equipment. 
 Analysts are not sure how much power the rooftop projects could ultimately produce, but they say it could be enough to help shave total electricity demand. In many communities, stores are among the biggest energy users. Depending on location and weather, the solar panels generate 10 to 40 percent of the power a store needs.
 If Wal-Mart eventually covered the roofs of all its Sam's Club and Wal-Mart locations with solar panels, figures from the company show that the resulting solar acreage would roughly equal the size of Manhattan, an island of 23 square miles.
 Booming demand in recent years has driven up the price of solar panels, and analysts say it costs far more to generate electricity from solar energy than from coal.
 Coal generation costs about 6 cents for a kilowatt hour, which is enough electricity to run a hair dryer for an hour. Natural gas generation costs about 9 cents a kilowatt hour, said Reese Tisdale, a senior analyst with the consulting firm Emerging Energy Research. In comparison, ''best case'' for power from solar panels is about 25 to 30 cents a kilowatt hour, he said. 
 But retailers believe that they can achieve economies of scale. With coal and electricity prices rising, they are also betting that solar power will become more competitive, especially if new policies addressing global warming limit the emissions from coal plants.
 Retailers, hoping to create a bigger market and positioning themselves at the forefront of a national shift toward renewable energy, are encouraging one another to join the bandwagon. 
 ''We're hoping that our purchases along with some other retailers will help bring the technology costs down,'' said Kathy Loftus, who is in charge of energy and other initiatives at Whole Foods Market.
 Most of the efforts so far are in California, New Jersey and Connecticut, states that offer generous incentives. Executives say they would like to convert many more. How quickly they can do so depends on government policy because retailers rely on tax incentives to offset the cost. 
 Corporate officials describe a federal tax credit for renewable energy, one that Congress has let expire and then renewed several times, as particularly important. A Congressional deadlock over offshore oil drilling has held up legislation that would renew the credit for next year.
 ''Every project that starts development has to be finished by Dec. 31 or you lose tax equity advantage, and nobody's willing to take that risk,'' said George Waidelich, vice president for energy operations at Safeway. ''You're talking about millions of dollars.''
 Retailers are fast becoming energy experts. They are experimenting with traditional solar panels, a new type of thin solar panel and ground-mounted tracking systems that move with the sun.
 They are also combining those systems with other rooftop technologies like skylights and solar water heaters.
 ''Solar has become part of the kit that we think about when we open a store,'' said Sharon Im-Lee, REI's energy manager.
 American retailers are following the lead of stores in Europe, which are much further along. Store-roof projects are so numerous in parts of Germany that they can be spotted in satellite photos. Government subsidies there, however, have lasted for years.
 ''In Germany, there are none of the concerns you find in the United States about whether support will be around next year,'' said Jenny Chase, an energy analyst in London.
 Retailers in the United States tend to buy their own solar-power systems, at $4 million to $6 million for a store the size of a Wal-Mart, or enter into an agreement with a utility company that pays the up-front costs and then gives the store a break on power bills -- an approach that appeals to big chains.
 ''It really helps make it economical for the retailer,'' said Kim Saylors-Laster, Wal-Mart's vice president for energy. 
 Retailers are also looking at other ways to extend their use of renewable energy by testing technologies like wind turbines and reflective white roofs, which keep buildings cooler in warm weather. 
 Bernard Sosnick, an analyst with Gilford Securities who has examined Wal-Mart's plans, said the day might come when people can pull their electric cars up to a store and recharge them with power from the roof or even from wind turbines in the parking lot.
 ''It's not as over the horizon as it might seem,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The roof of an REI store in California is prepared for solar panels. Retailers are among the biggest energy users in many places. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHIC: POWER FROM THE SUN: In a pilot program, Wal-Mart is installing solar panels to generate power in 22 of its stores. At 15 stores in Southern California and 2 in Hawaii, systems are already operating or in testing. One of the largest is a Wal-Mart store in Santa Ana, Calif. (Source: Wal-Mart) (GRAPHIC BY YOKO OHAMA AND GUILBERT GATES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (94%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (76%); ENERGY DEMAND (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); TRENDS (73%); WHOLESALERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (74%); SPIRE CORP (61%); BOSTON CO INC (61%); WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (58%); BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (55%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (74%); SPIR (NASDAQ) (61%); WFM (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (74%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (74%); NAICS333249 OTHER INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS333242 SEMICONDUCTOR MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC3559 OTHER SPECIAL INDUSTRY MACHINERY (61%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (61%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (58%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (58%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); HAWAII, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2008



266 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1372 words

HEADLINE: Brooklyn Neighbors Admit a Big Box Isn't All Bad

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM; Ann Farmer contributed reporting.

 BODY:
 The blue box opened, and so far, the sky hasn't fallen.
 When Ikea, the Swedish furniture giant, announced that it would open one of its trademark big-box stores on the Brooklyn waterfront in Red Hook, many in the area feared that throngs of shoppers would transform and scar a quiet neighborhood possessed of a battered industrial charm. 
 The battle lines were familiar to those who watch development brawls. Ikea and its supporters dangled the offer of new jobs and an economic spark for a depressed corner of Brooklyn, while their opponents -- and they were easy to find -- argued that the benefits would not offset what the neighborhood would lose, especially as untold numbers of cars poured in every week. 
 To make matters worse, just before the store opened in June, Ikea announced that it was renting a vast empty lot next to the store to accommodate overflow parking. ''It's going to be a madhouse,'' said one resident, expressing a widely held feeling at the time. 
 But since the store opened, something unexpected has happened. Ikea has won grudging acceptance from some of its detractors, who admit, somewhat sheepishly, that the feared blue box has brought perks enjoyed even by those who have no interest in stepping into the store. 
 There is the daily water taxi and shuttle bus service provided free by Ikea, technically for its customers. But for residents, the boats and buses have made the hard-to-reach neighborhood without a subway stop a little less remote; the ferries in particular have given them a picturesque way to travel between Manhattan and Red Hook. 
 The grassy waterfront esplanade that Ikea built, featuring benches with a view of the Lower Manhattan skyline, framed by remnants of Red Hook's maritime past, is also catching on as a neighborhood attraction.
 And the onslaught of Ikea-generated traffic that so many predicted has yet to materialize. Indeed, traffic is so light on some days that a rumor started among locals that Ikea was actually turning out to be a customer-starved failure (Ikea said its store was meeting its financial expectations). 
 Just before sunset one recent evening, Kerri-Ann Jennings, a graduate student at Columbia University who said she had opposed the store's opening, sat in a chair on the esplanade with a view of the water, sketching plans for a new bedroom that she was considering filling with Ikea furniture. She offered the kind of reluctant approval heard over and over in interviews, a declaration somewhere between an armistice and a retreat.
 ''It isn't awful,'' she said.
 Not far away, a group of barefoot local teenagers playing ball said they had found their own way to enjoy Ikea. The 50-cent hot dogs in the furniture store's cafe were the cheapest around, and free soda refills were available. They even took note of the esplanade; Kaymel Fields, 13, said it was ''peaceful and relaxing.''
 Although the battle over Ikea went beyond the neighborhood's resistance to a large development, it was emblematic of the history New Yorkers have of fighting big-box stores. Residents in Staten Island, Queens and the Bronx have rallied to keep Wal-Mart out, and for more than a decade, Costco has tried unsuccessfully to open in Manhattan. 
 There are still those who have not backed away from their argument that the store is bad for Red Hook. Traffic on weekends is still much heavier than it used to be, and the city's public buses through the neighborhood are more crowded when Ikea is open. The store's enemies give evidence of its negative impact by citing a report, released in June by the New York City Economic Development Corporation, that said the city needs more ship repair facilities, like the historic graving dock that Ikea paved over to build a parking lot.
 John McGettrick, a leader of the Red Hook Civic Association and one of Ikea's most vocal opponents, said that between the lost graving dock and the financial perquisites the company stood to receive, ''the environmental and economic costs far outweigh the benefits.''
 Ikea, which said it had promised to allow local residents to apply for jobs before others, still will not say how many people from Red Hook it actually hired.
 But even some opponents are finding Red Hook's new enhancements hard to ignore. Nick Offerman, who works in the neighborhood, crafts fine furniture out of solid wood, building pieces that he said should last hundreds of years -- work that in his view was ''anti-Ikea.'' Mr. Offerman said he and his friends ''depend on the isolation of the neighborhood to be able to afford space.''
 Despite his feelings, Mr. Offerman has taken advantage of the New York Water Taxi service, provided by Ikea, sometimes taking it home to Manhattan.
 Even Mr. McGettrick encourages people to take the water taxi, calling it a wonderful way to see the harbor. ''I tell people, it's there now,'' he said. ''Avail yourself of what is.''
 On another night, Chris Curen and Bill McDermott waited in line for the Ikea ferry on a pier in Lower Manhattan. Mr. Curen lives as close as one can to the furniture store, in an apartment building across the street. He is still angry about his new neighbor, arguing, among other things, that Ikea destroyed historic buildings to open its store.
 But he added: ''I guess I have to admit the traffic isn't that bad.'' Neither was the esplanade. ''I think any time there's waterfront access, it's positive,'' he said, as he and Mr. McDermott got on the boat for the shorter and more appealing ride home than their typical subway ride. 
 Ikea will not say how many of its customers travel to the store by car or by some other form of transportation. Mike Baker, the store's manager, said that the number of visitors and the traffic flows are ''in line with our predictions.'' The overflow parking lot has been used just twice so far, he said, and was kept for ''insurance.''
 A spokesman for the city's Department of Transportation, Seth Solomonow, said that the agency was watching Ikea's impact on the local roads, but that it was ''encouraged'' by the traffic flow so far. 
 Greg O'Connell, who owns many residential and commercial properties in Red Hook, said the store was contributing to the neighborhood's transformation and bringing badly needed visitors. The store's water shuttles to and from Manhattan, he said, are providing a glimpse of a future less dependent on cars and buses, maybe a model for development on other parts of the Brooklyn waterfront.
 ''You have to think of the ripple effect,'' added Mr. O'Connell, who supported Ikea coming to Red Hook. ''It's a catalyst for development, for jobs. They employ a lot of people locally. People can walk to work, they have money in their pocket, they can help the other small businesses.''
 But he knew that it would take time for the Ikea shoppers to wander further into Red Hook, that perceptions change slowly. ''For a very, very long time, this was a rough neighborhood,'' he said.
 Still, now that Ikea has arrived there is another fear, based on a popular rumor, that the owner of the parcel next to Ikea is planning on building another big-box store. A spokesman for the owner of the site, Thor Equities, could not be immediately reached.
 There is also the possibility that the boats and buses will not be provided as frequently. Ikea had originally committed to running the water taxi only on weekends, though Mr. Baker said the company had not made any decisions about whether to cut back on either of the transportation services. 
 It was the water taxi that brought Douglas F. Kydd, an engineer who works for Amtrak, to Red Hookduring a work break. Mr. Kydd went to see the Queen Mary 2, the ship where he proposed to his wife two years ago, before boarding the water taxi back to Manhattan. 
 Ikea supporters hope that visitors like Mr. Kydd spend their money at local businesses, like Baked, a cafe. Claire Moore, a cafe employee, said there seemed to be a few more customers on the weekend. The Ikea, she said, turned out to be less annoying than people thought.
 ''Everyone was talking about it before. But now, no one talks about it anymore, which is nice,'' she said.
 ''It's not that big of a deal,'' she said. ''It's just a furniture store.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Deion Fludd, in an Ikea-built park outside the store. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACOB SILBERBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
Outside the Ikea store, Kerri-Ann Jennings, left, enjoys a waterfront view as she draws an outline for a new bedroom, and two shuttle buses approach the store's entrance in Red Hook, Brooklyn.
 Shoppers wait for a New York Water Taxi to take them to Lower Manhattan. The boat rides are provided free by Ikea. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JACOB SILBERBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (90%); FURNITURE STORES (78%); RETAILERS (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (74%); MARINE VESSELS (70%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (70%); FERRIES (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (65%); INTERVIEWS (65%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (65%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (65%)

COMPANY: INGKA HOLDING BV (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (95%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2008



267 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 278 words

HEADLINE: Accounts, People, Miscellany

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Accounts
 Anna's Linens, Costa Mesa, Calif., a retailer of home furnishings, named two agencies to handle duties on its account, with spending estimated at $40 million, that had been handled by Admarketing, Los Angeles. The creative duties were awarded to Ground Zero, Los Angeles, and the media planning and buying duties were awarded to the Encino, Calif., office of KSL Media. 
 People
 James S. Berrien, president and publisher at the Forbes Magazine Group, New York, part of Forbes Inc., plans to step down at the end of the year and become chairman at Forbes magazine in January. No decision has been made about filling his posts at the magazine group. The post of chairman at the magazine has been vacant since Caspar W. Weinberger died in 2006.
 Miscellany
 Growth in spending for paid search advertising slowed from the first quarter of 2008 to the second quarter, according to a report from Covario, San Diego, to be released on Monday. The increase in the second quarter, compared with the second quarter of 2007, was 43 percent; the increase in the first quarter, compared with the first quarter of last year, was 52 percent. The report attributed part of the slowdown to the economy and part to improved efficiency.
 CondeNet, New York, is reorganizing its sales efforts to create a single staff that will sell advertising by content categories like food and travel. Christine DeMaio, vice president and publisher at epicurious.com and concierge.com, becomes vice president and group publisher at CondeNet, reporting to Dee Salomon, senior vice president for sales and marketing. CondeNet is part of the Conde Nast Publications unit of Advance Publications.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); RETAILERS (78%); SALES & SELLING (77%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%)

COMPANY: FORBES INC (83%); CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2008



268 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Recall Vote In Bolivia Seen as Win For Morales

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: COCHABAMBA, Bolivia 

 BODY:
President Evo Morales seemed to have secured an easy victory in a recall referendum on Sunday, giving him a fresh mandate to advance efforts to redistribute petroleum royalties and private farmlands among the country's impoverished indigenous majority. 
 Reports on national television, citing preliminary vote counts, said that Mr. Morales, a former coca farmer whose pro-indigenous policies and alliance with President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela have irritated the Bush administration, had won the referendum with 63.5 percent supporting his administration. 
 Mr. Morales won the presidency in 2005 with 53.7 percent of the vote. 
 While the early results pointed to strong support for Mr. Morales, they also revealed deep rifts in Bolivia, with voters rejecting by wide margins his policies in three prosperous lowland provinces and in Sucre, the seat of the judiciary. By contrast, Mr. Morales, an Aymara Indian, appeared to win handily in highland provinces where poor, indigenous voters predominate. 
 ''More conflict seems to be forthcoming unless the government is wise enough to enter into dialogue'' with Mr. Morales's opponents, said Eduardo A. Gamarra, a Bolivian political scientist at Florida International University. ''Given the history of conflict over the past two years, I don't see this as occurring in the near term.'' 
 Indeed, Mr. Morales seemed to show mixed interest in reconciliation while casting his vote Sunday morning near his small coca farm in the Chapare, a coca-growing area in central Bolivia. He told reporters that he would soon ask voters to approve a new Constitution, which would polarize the nation and has been rejected as illegally drafted by political opponents. 
 ''We are deepening the process of change under way,'' Mr. Morales said later Sunday. But he also said that he would respect the vote in areas where he lost.
 In the days leading up the vote, protesters blockaded airport runways and prevented Mr. Morales from traveling to several regional capitals, reflecting the repudiation of his policies in petroleum-rich provinces, called departments, like Tarija and Santa Cruz. One opposition bastion, Sucre, has mounted a seemingly quixotic campaign to be named the country's capital. 
 Heinz Dieterich, a political analyst in Mexico who writes widely on leftist movements in Latin America, summed up Mr. Morales's situation as being ''an exile in the majority of the provinces of his own land.'' 
 ''The de facto division of Bolivia into two countries'' continues, Mr. Dieterich said in a recent essay, ''until one of the two antagonistic powers is in a condition to deliver the decisive blow, to liquidate the other.'' 
 The referendum originated in May in what now seems to be a self-defeating effort to remove Mr. Morales from office by Podemos, an opposition party whose influence has eroded.
 Many voters here in Cochabamba, Bolivia's third-largest city and the scene last year of street battles between the president's followers and his critics, appeared ready to support Mr. Morales going forward, though with some hesitance. 
 ''I don't support all of his ideas, but Evo is our first indigenous president and should be given the chance to finish his term,'' said Yovana Velez, 25, a publicist. ''The last thing we need is more upheaval, more chaos.'' 
 Mr. Morales, 48, appears ready to use the referendum to proceed with policies that have enraged his political opponents, like the acceptance of tens of millions of dollars from Venezuela. 
 Over the weekend, Mr. Morales's government said it had secured $225 million in financing from Venezuela and Iran to create a state cement company. The move would deal a blow to a top political rival who controls much of the country's cement output. 
 The prefects, or governors, in several rebellious departments have a sharply different view of how Bolivia should develop. Their continuance in office was also part of the referendum on Sunday, with at least three of them winning by a wider margin than the president. 
 Some opposition leaders also showed little desire for reconciliation. ''No to the big foreign monkeys!'' Ruben Costas, governor of eastern Santa Cruz, shouted in a televised speech Sunday night, revealing some the racist language used to refer to Venezuela.
 While these departments have stopped short of secession in recent months, they have moved forward with votes on statutes seeking greater autonomy, arguing with Mr. Morales over everything from the distribution of natural gas revenues to control over regional police forces. 
 Perhaps the most contentious issue has been Mr. Morales's land reform project in Santa Cruz, the economically vibrant eastern department. Rich landowning families in the area have clashed with government officials seeking to distribute their landholdings to Aymara and Quechua Indian migrants. 
 Despite the apparent victories by some opposition governors, Mr. Morales's hand was strengthened by the seeming defeat of two governors, in the capital, La Paz, and here in Cochabamba. Another governor, a supporter of Mr. Morales in Oruro department, also lost. Under the rules of the referendum, Mr. Morales can appoint their successors. 
 Signaling how the referendum may reignite tensions, the governor of Cochabamba, Manfred Reyes, said the referendum itself was unconstitutional. ''I go on being prefect of Cochabamba,'' said Mr. Reyes on Sunday night. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A coca farmer welcomed President Evo Morales of Bolivia on Sunday as he arrived at his polling station. Indigenous women, left, stood in line to vote near the capital, La Paz. Mr. Morales seemed on his way to an easy victory in a recall referendum. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID MERCADO/REUTERS
 DADO GALDIERI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); REFERENDUMS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); POLITICS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); OIL & GAS ROYALTIES (78%); ROYALTIES (78%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOLIVIA (99%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2008



269 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: Civil Rights and the No Child Left Behind Act

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Education as a Civil Rights Issue'' (editorial, Aug. 1) asserts that civil rights organizations support strengthening the No Child Left Behind Act. While you are correct that education is a civil rights issue, we disagree with your generalization about the position of civil rights groups. 
 The failures of No Child Left Behind's hand-tying mandates are acutely felt by minority students nationwide: students and teachers in communities of color are smothered by the testing mandates of this broken law. 
 Civil rights leaders have recognized the law's shortcomings. They have united to sign the Joint Organizational Statement on No Child Left Behind Act, which has been endorsed by more than 20 prominent civil rights groups and more than 120 other organizations. 
 The N.A.A.C.P., Aspira, the League of United Latin American Citizens and the National Urban League have joined the call to overhaul No Child Left Behind.
 Yes, education is a civil rights issue, but strengthening No Child Left Behind is not the way to level the playing field.
 Monty Neill Cambridge, Mass., Aug. 1, 2008
 The writer is deputy director of FairTest and chairman of the Forum on Educational Accountability.
 To the Editor:
 The No Child Left Behind Act has provided the opportunity to close the insidious achievement gaps between students of color and white students in America's schools. 
 By holding schools less accountable for student progress, the bill proposed by Representatives Sam Graves, Republican of Missouri, and Tim Walz, Democrat of Minnesota, would make standard the educational status quo.
 Fortunately, as you note, the bill is unlikely to pass. 
 Every student should, as a basic civil right, be guaranteed a quality education. We should not render the nation's commitment to achievement for all students meaningless by eviscerating accountability. 
 Instead, a stronger, reauthorized No Child Left Behind Act must include higher standards of accountability and clear, consistent requirements for reporting graduation rates and student progress. Otherwise, we will fail to provide the necessary academic opportunities to our country's future business and political leaders, jeopardizing the strength of our economy and our democracy.
 Michael Wotorson Washington, Aug. 1, 2008
 The writer is the director of the Campaign for High School Equity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (96%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (96%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); EDUCATION LAW (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); WRITERS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); GRADUATION RATES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF UNITED LATIN AMERICAN CITIZENS (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (56%); NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (56%)

PERSON: SAM GRAVES (50%); TIMOTHY J WALZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2008



270 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1375 words

HEADLINE: Iraq Government Rolls Soar As the Private Sector Falters

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON; Riyadh Muhammad, Anwar J. Ali and Suadad al-Salhy contributed reporting.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
Hampered by years of violence, a decimated infrastructure, a lack of foreign investors and a flood of imports that undercut local businesses, Iraq's private sector, particularly its small non-oil economy, has so far failed to flourish as its American patrons had hoped. 
 In its absence, the Iraqi government has been sustaining the economy the way it always has: by putting citizens on its payroll. Since 2005, according to federal budgets, the number of government employees has nearly doubled, to 2.3 million from 1.2 million.
 The impetus is not only economic: In exchange for abandoning the insurgency that plunged the nation into civil war, many of the 100,000 members of civilian patrols known broadly as the Awakening movement have been promised jobs in the security forces or in reconstruction, though many Sunni Muslim members complain it is not happening quickly enough. 
 But this growth has not come without problems. Already, a huge wage increase to government workers that was instituted -- but then suspended because of fears that it was pushing up inflation -- has underscored the difficulties of being far and away the largest employer in an unstable country. 
 In 2006, 31 percent of Iraq's labor force was working in the public sector, according to the agency for statistics in the Ministry of Planning. The agency expects that figure to reach 35 percent this year, about 5 percentage points short of where the C.I.A. estimated it to be on the eve of the 2003 invasion. 
 This figure is not atypical for the region, but it hardly indicates the free market state initially envisioned by the United States-led Coalition Provisional Authority, which pushed for full and rapid privatization in its first few months. 
 ''For all the talk about the private sector taking off in Iraq, it didn't materialize,'' said Haider al-Abbadi, who is on the parliamentary economic committee, and is disappointed by Iraq's reversion to its old statist habits. ''People would say, 'Well, these people are poor; we need to help them.' It's true, but we didn't create jobs. I think this is a huge problem.''
 While some ministries need to keep growing -- the Defense and Interior Ministries, which each include Iraqi security forces, account for about a third of government employees -- others have tried to curtail hiring.
 ''I think that the government itself has been concerned about keeping a cap on the number of people that can join the public sector,'' said Jorge Araujo, the lead economist for Iraq at the World Bank. 
 But to combat unemployment, a factor contributing to much of Iraq's violence, there are few other options right now. Nothing sent recent graduates and out-of-work Iraqis scrambling to land civil service jobs more than the hefty raises that went into effect in June.
 Given how large a proportion of the country's population is on the government payroll, this series of wage increases, like the two that came before, in 2003 and 2007, was essentially a form of widespread economic relief. The salaries of many Iraqis were more than doubled.
 Some economic advisers and members of Parliament worried that a raise for government workers could be a nightmare for others when a sudden flood of cash poured into the market. They argued that the raises should be phased in gradually to prevent a spike in inflation, which, at around 14 percent -- a sea change from two years ago, when it neared 70 percent -- has largely been tamed by a disciplined fiscal policy, robust oil revenues and an influx of low-cost imports. 
 But Iraqi citizens were desperate for the money. And lawmakers were thinking about elections.
 ''When people see a sudden pay raise, they will spend,'' said Mr. Abbadi, who supported the phased approach. ''To be frank, we have not been fair to the poorer people, or people without jobs, or people not on the payroll of the government.'' 
 For a short time, the raises were a windfall for a handful of privately owned businesses -- like the gold shops and car dealerships that cater to the doctors, lawyers, engineers and teachers of the public sector. 
 ''This is the best season I've ever had,'' said Muhammed Aziz, 36, sitting behind the counter of his bustling gold shop in the Kadhimiya neighborhood. 
 But even government employees were wary. ''When our salary was increased, it came along with rising prices in the market,'' Tamathaer Hameed, 27, a professor of Arabic who was browsing for rings in Mr. Aziz's gold shop, said of the last round of wage hikes. ''It's an economic circle.'' 
 Ms. Hameed's worries were well founded. Under pressure from the International Monetary Fund, the Ministry of Finance announced recently that it would suspend the raises from September until the end of the year. The move was applauded by those who favored a cautious approach, but it left hundreds of thousands scrambling.
 ''I found myself with a huge problem,'' said Dr. Ra'ad Jassim, 45, a professor of communications at a state-owned university. Dr. Jassim, a father of four, bought a car with his new salary and was not worried about making the payments -- at least not until he heard of the suspension of raises.
 ''I tried to return this car to the original owner, but he refused,'' Dr. Jassim said. ''I think I will go to work as a taxi driver.''
 The long-term answer to Iraq's economic problems, several lawmakers said, is a thriving free-market alternative. 
 There has been some success: new business registration is up nearly 14 percent this year. But the process is slow.
 ''The private sector does not exist now,'' said Hasan al-Shammari, the head of the Fadhila Party in Parliament, ''because there is no infrastructure.'' 
 The Iraqi government has set aside money to help small businesses secure credit. It has also begun pushing for the creation of private banks, has taken steps toward privatizing some state-owned enterprises and has aggressively encouraged investment (the booming telecommunications industry is one bright spot). 
 The 2008 budget even includes an item that enables the government to cover half the salary, for two years, of a civil servant who transfers to the private sector. 
 But for most Iraqis, the challenge is getting on the government payroll, not getting off, and they are going at it the Iraqi way -- leaning on friends and relatives with connections and scraping up money for the inevitable bribe, typically a month's salary. 
 Like so much else in Iraq, getting a job is complicated by politics and sectarianism. While the minority Sunni Muslims run a handful of ministries, they are all but barred from some others. The policy of de-Baathification, aimed at rooting out loyalists to Saddam Hussein after the American-led invasion, resulted in a de facto purge of high-ranking Sunni bureaucrats, a purge that continued informally in certain offices that were permeated by Shiite militias. 
 ''If you go to the Ministry of Trade, for example, you can hardly find any Sunnis,'' said Saleh al-Mutlaq, a Sunni member of Parliament. ''Ministry of Agriculture, they cannot go there.'' 
 Shiites applying to Shiite-controlled ministries -- even for jobs as cafeteria workers -- are often required to prove connections, or loyalty, to the right political party.
 Older Iraqis, those who flourished in the free market while civil service employees languished under Mr. Hussein's government, are unaccustomed to the new math. 
 Abdul Aama, 65, once owned a shoe factory and shop that employed 30 workers. Now he employs only one. On a recent weekday morning, the shop, off the once-teeming Rashid Street downtown, now largely blocked by blast walls, was empty. Few of the shoes on display were Iraqi-made.
 ''After the fall of the regime all the factories closed,'' Mr. Aama said. Cheap Chinese imports began pouring into the market -- a boon to the poor, but a bane to the local shoe industry -- and the unreliable electricity did the rest.
 Asked if he had applied for one of the government's new loans, Mr. Aama said it was pointless.
 ''If we went to the directorate to apply for loans, they would only give them to friends, relatives or people who are bribing them,'' Mr. Aama said. 
 ''Even if I got the loan, what would I do with it?'' he asked. ''I would eat it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Workers leaving the Diyala State Company for Electrical Industries in Baquba recently. Iraq has been sustaining its economy by putting people on its payroll.
 Abdul Aama in his Baghdad shoe factory, in which he once employed 30 people. Now he has only one employee. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ASHLEY GILBERTSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); CIVIL WAR (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); STATISTICS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2008



271 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: UBS to Buy Back $20 Billion in Securities

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The Swiss banking giant UBS agreed Friday to buy back nearly $20 billion in auction-rate securities from investors, a day after Citigroup reached a similar settlement with regulators for $7 billion as part of a wide-ranging investigation into the collapse of the market for the bond-like investments.
 UBS will repurchase all $18.6 billion of the securities it sold and pay a fine of $150 million as part of an investigation led by the New York attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, into whether banks misled customers about the safety of the securities. 
 Mr. Cuomo said in an interview that his investigation into the troubled securities was continuing. Of the two settlements reached with UBS and Citigroup, he said: ''We tend to start with the largest because that can make the greatest impact.''
 As part of its settlement announced Thursday, Citigroup will also pay fines of $100 million.
 Auction-rate securities were widely held by many institutional and individual investors and were seen as highly liquid, money market-like investments. However, the market for them collapsed in February as part of the downturn in the broader credit markets.
 The $330 billion auction-rate securities market involved investors buying and selling instruments that resembled corporate debt, except the interest rates were reset at regular auctions, some as frequently as once a week. Some companies invested in the securities because they could treat their holdings almost like cash.
 Regulators have been investigating the collapse in the market to determine who was responsible for its demise and how to compensate investors.
 ''What we've established is, the institutions are responsible,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''People will get their money, and get it back in the immediate future.''
 More than 80,000 investors nationwide are affected by the two agreements.
 UBS agreed to repurchase all of the auction-rate securities it sold to retail customers, charities and small and midsize businesses beginning Jan. 1. That group holds about $8.3 billion in securities. Within that group, customers with less than $1 million in assets at UBS will be able to sell the securities back to the bank beginning Oct. 31.
 The bank will begin repurchasing securities from institutional investors -- worth a total of about $10.3 billion -- beginning in June 2010.
 Any customers who sold the securities at a loss after the market failed Feb. 13 will be reimbursed.
 The settlements with UBS and Citigroup provide parameters to other banks on how to resolve situations surrounding their sales of auction-rate securities, Mr. Cuomo said.
 Bank of America and Bank of New York Mellon have both disclosed that they received requests for information about the sale of auction-rate securities, and Merrill Lynch has said it will voluntarily repurchase $12 billion of the securities from clients.
 Mr. Cuomo noted that Merrill's repurchase program falls short of the steps agreed to by UBS and Citigroup, and his office will continue to investigate the bank.
 Both UBS and Citigroup will take charges tied to the repurchase of the securities because they will be forced to price them at their current market value and not at the par value being paid to repurchase them.
 UBS said it will take a charge of about $900 million on a pretax basis based on the difference between the par value of the securities and their current market values and the cost of the regulatory fine.
 Half of the $150 million fine will go to New York, which led the investigation and where UBS's United States headquarters are located. The other half will be distributed to other states, including Massachusetts and New Hampshire.
 In reaching the settlement, UBS did not acknowledge any wrongdoing.
 UBS will record the charge in its second-quarter results, which are scheduled to be released Tuesday.
 Citigroup said it would take a pretax charge of about $500 million because of its settlement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (96%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (96%); UBS (NYSE) (96%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); BK (NYSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (96%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2008



272 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Path of Loss and Despair Led to Beijing Knife Attack

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS; Reporting was contributed by Steven Lee Myers, and research by Dado Derviskadic, Fan Wenxin and Zhan Yingying.. 
Reporting was contributed by Steven Lee Myers, and research by Dado Derviskadic, Fan Wenxin and Zhan Yingying.

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
Tang Yongming was like countless other middle-aged, marginally skilled men struggling to find their way in the new China. Laid off from a meter factory in the central city of Hangzhou, Mr. Tang, 47, found himself idle, broke and living alone in a rented room with no furniture and no future. 
 Friends and former co-workers said he had become angry and unmoored as he watched China's surging economy roar ahead without him. 
 But even though Mr. Tang had moments of despair and frustration, those who knew him were at a loss to explain why he attacked a couple of American tourists and their Chinese guide on Saturday, fatally stabbing a 62-year-old man and slashing the others before leaping to his death from the balcony of the Drum Tower, one of Beijing's best-known historic monuments. 
 Todd Bachman, a Minnesota businessman whose son-in-law coaches the men's volleyball team, was killed. His wife, Barbara, 62, was critically wounded, as was the guide, whose name has not been released. 
 The attack, on the first day of the Olympic Games, punctured the feel-good bubble that had enveloped Beijing since the opening ceremonies on Friday night. Although the episode received modest coverage in the Chinese media, it has been widely discussed among local residents and foreign visitors, many of whom said they were stunned that such an act of brutality could have occurred amid the city's thick blanket of security.
 President Hu Jintao, meeting Sunday with President Bush, expressed condolences to the victims and their families and said the police would fully investigate. ''The Chinese side takes this unfortunate incident very seriously,'' he said.
 The killing has provoked hand-wringing and debate on the Internet. Some people fretted that it could tarnish China's moment of Olympic glory, while others used Mr. Tang's murderous outburst to rail against a variety of unattended social ills: mental illness, chronic unemployment among laid-off state workers and the rise of xenophobic nationalism.
 One widely circulated posting, written anonymously on a popular Web site, seemed to capture the prevailing worry that Mr. Tang's crime would harm China's image: ''Your actions have hurt not just two Americans, but they have hurt the way Americans will view China during the Games, the way all the people of the world will view China. The bright dream of these momentous Olympics has been darkened by you.'' 
 Much of the debate and the supposition about his motives have been swirling in a vacuum of substantial information. Mr. Tang was unemployed and arrived in Beijing on Aug. 1 for reasons that remain unclear. The only thing he left behind, investigators said, was the government-issued identification card in his pocket.
 The Chinese police have painted him as a man turned desperate by personal shortcomings. ''He had lost all hope after a series of failures in his life and took his anger out on society,'' the police said, according to Xinhua, the state news agency.
 Mr. Tang had no criminal record, investigators said, nor was he among the crowds of aggrieved citizens, so-called petitioners, who flock to the capital to file official appeals to the central government. 
 On the outskirts of Hangzhou, where Mr. Tang spent most of his life, neighbors and former co-workers said he was often disgruntled and prone to argument. ''He grumbled a great deal, very cynical,'' Zhang Liping, a former colleague, said. ''He had an unyielding mouth.'' 
 They agreed that Mr. Tang typified the many working men cast aside by ailing state-run industries. He was angry at being left behind by China's headlong rush into an economy that lacked the succors of the Socialist past. ''He had a quick temper and was always complaining about society,'' said a former co-worker, who would only give his nickname, Aqing. 
 Mr. Tang worked as a metal presser at the Hangzhou Meter Factory for more than two decades. When a private company bought the plant five or six years ago, his job was transferred elsewhere and Mr. Tang was demoted to guard at the factory gate. In 2004, colleagues said, he lost that job for reasons that were not clear. 
 In 2006, his wife, who also worked at the meter factory, divorced him. Mr. Tang sold his house and rented a room nearby in Hengjie, a once-rural town that has become absorbed into Hangzhou's industrial sprawl. Xinhua, quoting the police, said Mr. Tang's 21-year-old son spent the money from the sale of the home. Last year the son was arrested for fraud and later received a six-month sentence for burglary. 
 Jiang Beigen, his landlord, said Mr. Tang paid $53 a month for an unfurnished room. According to Mr. Jiang and other tenants, Mr. Tang seemed to own only one shirt and a single pair of pants, both of which he washed by hand at night. He had no job, they said, and often slept late into the day.
 Last week, Mr. Tang announced he was leaving town. According to the police, he called his son that evening and told him he would not be returning until he found success.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); OLYMPICS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (88%); HOMICIDE (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (69%); HISTORIC SITES (68%); INTERNET & WWW (67%); MENTAL ILLNESS (50%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (95%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (90%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2008



273 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 212 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths MCCARTHY, WILLIAM J

 BODY:
 McCARTHY--William J., age 85, of Bronxville, New York, died on Saturday August 9th, at his home. Mr. McCarthy was a graduate of Xavier High School in Manhattan, Georgetown College and Georgetown Law Center, Washington D.C. and New York University, from which he received an MBA. His first career was in law, an associate at Sullivan, Donovan, Hanrahan and then at Hawkins, Delafield and Wood, both law firms specializing in municipal bond law. In his second career, as a bond-rating specialist, he worked thirty years, first at Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and later at Fitch Investor Service, Inc. from which he retired in 1990. Mr. McCarthy was an avid golfer and long time member of St. Eugene's Parish, Yonkers, New York. He is predeceased by his wife of 37 years, the former Carol Martin of Taunton, Mass. He is survived by his five children: Christian of Worcester, Mass; Mark of Eastchester, New York; Margaret Czajka of Bethesda, MD, Kelley Spoerl of Manchester, NH; and Mary Jo Thomson of Hoboken, NJ. He is also survived by nine grandchildren. Calling hours at the Fred H. McGrath & Son Funeral Home, 20 Cedar Street, Bronxville, NY from 24pm and 7-9pm Monday, August 11. A funeral Mass will be celebrated Tuesday, 10am, at St. Joseph's Church, Bronxville, NY. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); CHILDREN (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); GOLF (71%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (67%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC (71%); HAWKINS DELAFIELD & WOOD LLP (58%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (79%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2008



274 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Contemplations on Being of Mixed Race in America

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
As a multiracial and somewhat foreign person I have on occasion found myself on the receiving end of the same kind of unease that many Americans seem to have about Barack Obama's ambiguous identity. He is either not black enough or too black. His name sounds odd. He had a weird childhood with kids who didn't speak English. 
 Mr. Obama is not just politically atypical. He is unusual demographically. A recent paper by economists from Harvard, Yale and the University of Chicago said that in 2000 only one in 70 births in the United States came from mixed, black-white parents. In the 1980s it was one in 200. In the 1960s, when Mr. Obama was born, there were virtually none. 
 Black-white teens are so rare today, the researchers argued, that they feel they have to engage in more risky behavior to be accepted by others: drink more, fight more, steal more, do illegal drugs more than either blacks or whites -- a pattern of behavior known to social scientists as the ''marginal man.'' 
 Perhaps this is true. Yet I would suggest that these outcomes say more about the context in which American multiracial kids grow up than about the kids themselves. The United States practices cleanly defined racial slotting. 
 I'm not an avid TV watcher, but when I watch, the black man gets the black woman and whites date whites. I have yet to see an ad with a mixed-race family. Whites marry blacks, but rarely. Over all, 5.7 percent of married couples in 2000 crossed racial boundaries.
 The American approach to race is unique, in a way. In Brazil, with a history of slavery and racism as brutal as America's, some 39 percent of the people define themselves as mixed race or ''pardos.'' By contrast, when the United States census in 2000 first allowed respondents to tick as many racial boxes as they wanted, only 2.4 percent ticked more than one. Never mind that genetic testing suggests a great deal of intermixing between Americans of African and European decent. 
 The son of a tallish, white father from Chicago and a short, brown Mexican mother of European and Indian blood, I'm not the same mix as Obama. As a colleague recently told me, I ''read white.'' Growing up in Mexico City, where power and skin color correlate at least as well as in the United States, I led a privileged existence. Still, being a mix was never an issue; most of my peers were too. 
 This is not to suggest Mexico has dealt with race any better. Racism just took different forms. European colonizers of modern-day Latin America encouraged the whitening of Indians and blacks. In the century after independence, ethnic loyalties were subsumed under a mixed Mexican identity as a way to merge Europeans and pre-Columbian indigenous nations into a modern Mexican state. 
 Today the Mexican census doesn't even ask about race, and it only started asking about indigenous ethnicity in 2000. Jose Vasconcelos, a politician and philosopher, wrote in the 1920s that Mexicans were of the ''cosmic race'' -- that which included all others. Yet Mexico's state-sanctioned mestizo identity allowed its rulers to ignore its beleaguered indigenous populations -- virtually defining them out of existence. 
 In the United States by contrast, racially inspired policies, whether they resulted in Jim Crow laws or affirmative action, fueled an urge to define and redefine hard racial boundaries. Close attention to race has forced uncomfortable issues of racial inequity into public debate, but has also gotten in the way of embracing a blended racial identity.
 Fortunately, Americans seem to be slowly becoming more comfortable with racial intermingling. Newer immigrant groups with different experiences of race are already chipping away at the racial divide. About 10 percent of Asian Americans ticked two or more race boxes in the 2000 census. More than 15 percent of Hispanics marry non-Hispanics. And Hispanics are so confused about American racial categories that half of them can't find an appropriate race box on the census form and tick ''other race'' instead. 
 For all the mistrust of Mr. Obama's ancestry and ethnicity, he might even help this trend along, allowing blacks and whites to take a fresh look at each other. Then maybe people like me won't need to engage in extreme behaviors to fit in. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); HISTORY (73%); MARRIAGE (69%); SLAVERY (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (52%) ILLINOIS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (93%); BRAZIL (79%); LATIN AMERICA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2008



275 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: A Darker Outlook at Fannie and Freddie

 BODY:
Shareholders of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the big government-backed mortgage companies, were hammered anew last week, as the companies reported worse-than-expected quarterly results and warned of more pain to come. For all the distress, no one should be surprised that shareholder value has been destroyed. 
 At Fannie and Freddie, as at other financial firms, highly paid executives stoked profits during the housing bubble by piling into loans and mortgage-backed securities that were bound to tank -- unless house prices rose forever and the economy never soured. Their higher quality assets, being mortgage related, also made them vulnerable to a housing downturn. In addition, the companies have been poorly supervised -- by lawmakers who put a higher value on campaign contributions than on their duties, and by federal regulators who failed to stop the bad lending that fed the bubble.
 The question now is whether taxpayers will have to bail out the companies and, if so, whether the government is committed to protecting taxpayers' interests. 
 Under a law signed by President Bush in July, the government has the authority to use taxpayer dollars to rescue Fannie and Freddie from insolvency. That authority is necessary because the companies are essential to the credit and housing markets. Even the perception that they might fail could derail the financial system. 
 But it is still unclear what the Bush administration has in mind if direct intervention is needed. The administration hopes it never has to use the new power, that the mere existence of a government backstop will bolster investor confidence, enabling the companies to raise capital from private investors. 
 The more the companies weaken, however, the less likely investors are to step up and the more likely it is that any government intervention would be substantial. 
 In that event, taxpayer interests must come first. That implies wiping out the shareholders, so that available cash goes to taxpayers and their claims on the value of the companies take precedence. It should go without saying that taxpayer money should not be used to prop up private shareholders.
 But in his desperation to avoid a bailout on his watch, Mr. Bush has implied a willingness to do just that. At a recent news conference, he indicated that as long as shareholders owned Fannie and Freddie, the government's new authority could not be deemed a ''bailout.'' 
 A government rescue would also require firing the current management -- a bailout being the ultimate sign of managerial failure. The government would have to take control of Fannie and Freddie until the housing crisis passed, and then debate how best to sever the links between the government and the companies. The risk to taxpayers is too great to allow them to continue in their current form. 
 A parallel debate must also occur about how the government should be involved, going forward, in fulfilling the companies' original mission: to ensure that underserved groups have access to mortgages and that low-income housing needs are met. 
 Fannie and Freddie may yet muddle through without an explicit bailout. Their near-death experience seems to have wised them up. For instance, they are now putting a greater effort into modifying the mortgages of hard-pressed borrowers. 
 But there is no return to the old normal. The future of Fannie and Freddie will be different from their past.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (76%); HOUSING BUBBLE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); PRICE INCREASES (70%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2008



276 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: Paulson Says No Plan Is Afoot To Rescue Mortgage Agencies

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
The Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., said Sunday there are no plans to use his new authority to inject capital into mortgage companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which both posted worse-than-expected earnings last week. 
 ''We have no plans to insert money into either of those two institutions,'' Mr. Paulson said in an interview on NBC's ''Meet the Press'' broadcast Sunday from Beijing. He added that their earnings results were ''not a surprise.''
 Mr. Paulson and Congress brokered a plan last month to bolster the two government-sponsored enterprises that includes giving the Treasury the right to buy their shares. Fannie and Freddie, which account for almost half of the $12 trillion mortgage market, reported losses three times worse than estimated, prompting some analysts to predict that Mr. Paulson will have to act.
 ''Given that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are solely involved in housing, that's their sole business, and given the magnitude of the housing correction we've had, it's not a surprise to me to see those losses,'' Mr. Paulson said.
 Mr. Paulson, former chairman of the Goldman Sachs Group, also said he would not stay on as Treasury secretary after President Bush's term ends in January, regardless of who is elected president in November.
 ''I'm going to run right up until the end,'' said Mr. Paulson, 62, who joined the Bush administration in July 2006, succeeding John W. Snow. ''I will do everything I can to make for a smooth transition, to work closely with my successor here in Treasury.''
 Mr. Paulson said the financial problems at Fannie and Freddie underscored his view that the housing crisis remained the biggest threat to the nation's economy. 
 ''We have got some serious issues that we're dealing with in our economy,'' he said. ''I believe it's going to take us well beyond the end of the year to work through all the housing problems.''
 Mr. Paulson downplayed the need for a second economic stimulus package, saying the $168 billion plan enacted in February had helped increase consumption and growth in the second quarter of the year and would continue to do so. The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, a Democrat from California, has called for a second package of about $50 billion.
 ''Let's see how this program works in the third quarter,'' Mr. Paulson said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); CONSUMPTION (68%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (65%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (94%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (74%); NANCY PELOSI (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2008



277 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1524 words

HEADLINE: Social Initiatives on State Ballots Could Draw Attention to Presidential Race

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

 BODY:
Divisive social issues will be on the ballot in several states in November, including constitutional amendments banning same-sex marriage in Arizona, California and Florida, and limitations on abortion in California, Colorado and South Dakota. 
 Although research indicates that ballot measures do not drastically alter voter turnout, they have begun attracting the attention of both presidential campaigns.
 Unlike 2004, when same-sex marriage bans were considered in 11 states, no single issue will dominate statewide ballots.
 ''Tax and spending issues are typically one of the main focuses of these measures, but this time that's less true,'' said Jennie Drage Bowser, a policy analyst at the National Conference of State Legislatures. 
 Ms. Bowser said that many of the social measures on the ballots are being pushed by evangelical groups that hope to force Senator John McCain of Arizona, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, to pay closer attention to their agenda.
 On the ballots are at least 108 measures, down from 204 in 2006. At least 30 measures may be added as signatures are verified. 
 The same-sex marriage and abortion amendments are likely to attract the most attention, along with proposals to ban affirmative action.
 In Arizona, California and Florida, advocates hope to amend the state constitutions and define marriage as solely between one man and one woman. Similar amendments have been passed by 27 states. 
 Mr. McCain has endorsed the proposal. 
 Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, the presumptive Democratic nominee, who previously said same-sex marriage should be left up to the states, has said he opposes the ban. 
 The California measure would overturn a State Supreme Court ruling in May that made the state the second, after Massachusetts, to legalize same-sex marriage. 
 ''California's measure is distinctly important because the movement to legalize gay marriage thus far has been driven by the courts,'' said John G. Matsusaka, president of the Initiative and Referendum Institute at the University of Southern California. ''If California voters reject the amendment banning gay marriage, it will be the first significant popular affirmation of gay marriage.''
 Abortion will be a ballot issue in California, Colorado and South Dakota.
 South Dakota voters will consider a ban on abortion except in cases of rape, incest or threats to a woman's health. The proposal would give the state one of the strictest bans in the country, and it would almost certainly lead to a challenge in the courts.
 California will vote for the third time on a parental notification measure. 
 Colorado voters will be asked whether to define a ''person'' as ''any human being from the moment of fertilization.'' The proposal is the first in nation to put the question of when life begins before voters.
 Groups including National Right to Life and Focus on the Family are opposed to the Colorado initiative, arguing that the timing and language are not right.
 A memorandum circulated among activists and lawmakers last year by the Indiana law firm Bopp, Coleson & Bostrom, which is closely associated with the National Right to Life Committee, argued that now is not the time to promote such ''personhood'' measures because they will fail in the courts.
 ''They also run the risk of taking much-needed resources and attention away from other types of laws that could protect women and their unborn children immediately,'' said Clarke D. Forsythe, president of Americans United for Life.
 Kristina Wilfore, the executive director of the Ballot Initiative Strategy Center, a liberal-leaning policy group in Washington, said the lack of unity and focus among conservatives this year on measures like Colorado's may put Mr. McCain in a difficult position, forcing him to choose sides. 
 Three states are expected to consider banning affirmative action. Colorado has a proposal on the ballot, and Arizona and Nebraska may soon follow suit. Similar measures have been passed in California, Michigan and Washington.
 As the first black presidential candidate to lead a major party ticket, Mr. Obama has cast himself as being able to move beyond racial divisions, but those divisions are likely to take on increasing significance as both candidates confront the affirmative action measures.
 The debate, in fact, has already begun. Asked about affirmative action last week, Mr. McCain said he supported a ban, even though in 1998 he opposed a similar measure, calling it ''divisive.'' 
 Mr. Obama opposes the bans. 
 Supporters of the initiative cite Mr. Obama's success in the Democratic primaries as evidence that preferences based on race are no longer needed. 
 In Nebraska, a radio advertisement favoring the ban was broadcast this month and featured a clip from an inflammatory speech by the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr., Mr. Obama's former pastor. ''Colorblind government,'' the advertisement said, is the best way to ''reject the politics of race and hate.''
 Daniel A. Smith, a political science professor at the University of Florida, said the dispute over affirmative action could hurt Mr. Obama.
 ''In a down-turning economy, white voters may be looking for someone to blame for job losses or their poor financial situation,'' Dr. Smith said.
 He also said he did not see how it would be in Mr. McCain's interest to directly embrace any of the major socially conservative measures.
 ''Many of these conservative measures, be they abortion, affirmative action or gay marriage, may be very risky for McCain to touch directly because voters are very focused on the economy and the war,'' Dr. Smith said. ''McCain will have to use proxies to play up these issues because his own stances on these issues have not always been so clear.'' 
 Social measures will not be the only ones to influence the presidential debate, said Grover G. Norquist, president of the conservative-leaning Americans for Tax Reform. 
 ''Every six months there is an announcement that taxes don't matter anymore,'' Mr. Norquist said. ''It's wrong each time.''
 He said he believed Mr. Obama would have a difficult time deciding what stand to take on a ''right to work'' measure in Colorado, where the Democratic National Convention will be held this month. 
 The measure would prohibit employers from requiring union membership or payment of union dues. Critics say the measure would allow workers to benefit from unions without helping to cover the cost of those benefits.
 Mr. Obama has strong labor support, but also risks alienating swing voters in Colorado if he takes a pro-union stand in a state with a small union presence, Mr. Norquist said.
 He added that he thought a measure in North Dakota to cut the income tax in half would pass because the state has a budget surplus. 
 In Massachusetts, voters will consider a proposal to abolish the income tax, Mr. Norquist said. The repeal of the income tax would result in a $3,600 annual savings for the average taxpayer, but the measure has drawn sharp opposition from municipal leaders who worry that about $12 billion in lost state revenue would lead to major cuts in state aid and hurt small local governments. 
 Labor unions will face issues in several states besides Colorado. 
 Oregon voters will consider measures to prohibit government employees from using state resources in campaigning or lobbying. 
 In South Dakota, a measure would prohibit unions from making political contributions if they have collective bargaining agreements with state or local governments. 
 Unions are pushing hard for a measure in Ohio that would require companies with more than 50 workers to provide seven paid days of sick leave to employees. 
 Mr. Obama's platform endorses a similar plan for paid sick leave, which Mr. McCain has criticized. 
 Ms. Bowser, of the National Conference of State Legislatures, said energy and the environment were also high priorities in seven states with ballot measures.
 The most significant proposal is one in California that would require all utilities to generate 20 percent of their energy from renewable fuel sources by 2010, rising to 40 percent in 2020 and 50 percent by 2025.
 Although they may not affect the presidential race, a host of contentious proposals will draw local attention, Ms. Bowser said. 
 Among the proposals is a measure in Washington State to legalize assisted suicide for people who are terminally ill, and one in Michigan that could end a 30-year ban on stem-cell research that destroys human embryos.
 A measure in Maryland would legalize up to 15,000 slot machines.
 Proposals in Ohio and Arizona, favored by the same-day loan industry, involve the regulation of payday loans. Consumer advocates, however, say that the proposals would block increased protections against predatory lending. 
 Missouri voters will decide whether to declare English the official state language, and in Oregon a measure would restrict bilingual education. 
 Massachusetts and California voters will decide whether to reduce the charges associated with possession of small amounts of marijuana, and Michigan is considering legalizing medical marijuana.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Two men prepared to get married in San Francisco on June 17 after a California Supreme Court ruling in May allowed same-sex marriages, while a protester in Sacramento expressed his opposition. A state ballot initiative seeks to overturn the court's decision. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIN SIEGAL/REUTERS
RICH PEDRONCELLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A12)
 Kristina Wilfore said a lack of unity among conservatives on some ballot measures may force John McCain to choose sides. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BALLOTS (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ABORTION (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); REFERENDUMS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); FAMILY (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (67%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (65%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (56%); RELIGION (54%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA (59%); NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (56%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2008



278 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA TALK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: Endorsement From Winfrey Quantified: A Million Votes

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
Presidential candidates make the most of celebrity supporters, showing them off in television ads and propping them on podiums to stand and wave. No doubt Mike Huckabee's aborted campaign for the Republican nomination got some sort of bump from those commercials of him with Chuck Norris, right? 
 Or maybe not. Politicians and pundits routinely claim that celebrity endorsements have little sway on voters, and two economists set out recently to test the premise. What they found was that at least one celebrity does hold influence in the voting booth: Oprah Winfrey. 
 The economists, Craig Garthwaite and Timothy Moore of the University of Maryland, College Park, contend that Ms. Winfrey's endorsement of Barack Obama last year gave him a boost of about one million votes in the primaries and caucuses. Their conclusions were based partly on a county-by-county analysis of subscriptions to O: The Oprah Magazine and sales figures for books that were included in her book club. 
 Those data points were cross-referenced with the votes cast for Mr. Obama in various polling precincts. The results showed a correlation between magazine sales and the vote share obtained by Mr. Obama, and extrapolated an effect of 1,015,559 votes.
 ''We think people take political information from all sorts of sources in their daily life,'' Mr. Moore said in an e-mail message, ''and for some people Oprah is clearly one of them.''
 In their as-yet-unpublished research paper on the topic, the economists trace celebrity endorsements back to the 1920 campaign of Warren Harding (who had Al Jolson, Lillian Russell and Douglas Fairbanks in his corner), and call Ms. Winfrey ''a celebrity of nearly unparalleled influence.''
 The economists did not, however, look at how Ms. Winfrey's endorsement of Mr. Obama may have affected her own popularity. A number of people -- women in particular -- were angry that Ms. Winfrey threw her first-ever political endorsement to a man rather than his female opponent.
 The research did not try to measure the influence of other stars' endorsements; for instance, no similar measures were available for Obama supporters like the actress Jessica Alba or Pete Wentz of the band Fall Out Boy. ''If a celebrity endorsement is ever going to have an empirically identifiable audience, then it is likely to be hers,'' the researchers said of Ms. Winfrey. Sorry, Chuck Norris.
 BRIAN STELTER 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Oprah Winfrey and Senator Barack Obama at a rally in Manchester, N.H., in December as the primary election neared. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELISE AMENDOLA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); PRODUCT ENDORSEMENTS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (74%); SALES FIGURES (74%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (57%)

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (74%); JESSICA ALBA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (59%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2008



279 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Economic Realities Press On Artists' Outdoor Eden

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
When the artist Laddie John Dill fenced in a part of the railroad easement behind his studio in the dilapidated beach community of Venice nearly three decades ago, it was less to stake a claim to an otherwise unwanted parcel of real estate than to keep at bay, he said, a growing coterie of drug dealers, prostitutes and vagrants who were encroaching on his work space.
 He was soon joined by the painter Ed Ruscha, and together they have toiled for 25 years in the open-air studio, which is still ringed with the detritus of homeless people who camp in the dirt alley outside the fence. 
 In the rapidly reviving Venice of today, and in a city where parking is more fervently debated than air quality, it seems almost too predictable that the City of Los Angeles wants to tear down the fence, pave the space and, yes, put up a parking lot.
 The project has quickly emerged as a fight between the artistic values that led to the renewal of Venice and the commercial interests that are reshaping the community's character. 
 ''After the railroad line stopped back there, and Venice began its slow deterioration, this was a really rough part of town,'' Mr. Dill said. Now, however, as the boulevard on the other side of the alley has become populated with restaurants, clothing boutiques and a Pinkberry cafe, ''this whole thing is symbolic of the gentrification of Venice.''
 City bulldozers are expected to begin work on the 100-space parking project soon after a ground-breaking ceremony on Thursday. That has led the owner of the warehouse leased by the two artists to begin preparing a lawsuit seeking to stop the project.
 Bill Rosendahl, the city councilman who represents the district, said in an interview that he met with Mr. Ruscha at the studio on Sunday, and that the city would delay destruction of the fenced-in artists' enclave at least until March, allowing for time for a compromise solution. 
 ''But this is city land that will be turned into a strip of parking,'' he said. ''My hope is we can work out something with the landlord,'' he continued, to allow the artists to move their outdoor workspace to the other side of the building, which faces Electric Avenue.
 Nicole Slayton, a lawyer who is the daughter of the property owner, Robert Slayton, said the city knew that the artists were using the property before it bought the rights to the railroad easement and that the artists' use of the space is therefore protected.
 ''We have asserted that right, but they have stopped communicating with us,'' Ms. Slayton said of the city. Regarding Mr. Rosendahl's proposed compromise, she added, ''We have no trust that they will follow through on anything.''
 All of which has prompted a certain amount of ''Can we all get along?'' hand-wringing. Aldis Browne, an art dealer who is the co-chairman of the Venice Neighborhood Council arts committee and also a director of the Venice Chamber of Commerce, said he believed that there must be a way to work out the dispute. 
 ''I personally don't see this as something that has to be as extreme as 'Does Venice care about art or parking?' '' Mr. Browne said.
 Mr. Dill and Ms. Slayton said their concerns went beyond the loss of the outdoor studio. The alleyway, which lies between Electric Avenue and Abbot Kinney Boulevard, has drainage problems, they say, that have not been adequately addressed by city engineers. In addition, the proposed parking abuts the rear entrance to the warehouse and would therefore block a mandated fire exit.
 Mr. Dill, informed of the city's proposed compromise -- moving the outdoor workspace -- said that still would not address the drainage or access concerns, not to mention that an outdoor studio on the east side of the building receives different light from one on the west side.
 Mr. Rosendahl said the plans allowed for adequate exit space and would address drainage problems. And, he noted, the project has been on the city's agenda for most of the 20 years since it bought the rights to the property from a private owner, who had acquired it from the railroad.
 Mr. Ruscha, whose paintings are recognizable for their frequent inclusion of words or phrases across the landscape or scene and are part of the permanent collections of the Museum of Modern Art and the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, rarely gives interviews. He was said by a representative at the Gagosian Gallery to be traveling on Monday and unavailable for comment.
 ''We respect and admire and consider Ed Ruscha to be a treasure of Venice,'' Mr. Rosendahl said. ''I told him on Sunday that this was the beginning of a discussion, and that we want to keep him there.''
 Other local property owners are less sympathetic. Andy Layman, president of the Chamber of Commerce, has also been around Venice for decades, having bought and renovated a run-down hotel in the 1980s. 
 ''It's not like there hasn't been a chance for fair public hearings about this,'' he said. ''That structure is basically a lean-to that is far from habitable and safe. If somebody called the buildings department, that would put the whole thing to an end.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Laddie John Dill at the fence of the outdoor studio he shares with Ed Ruscha in Los Angeles.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); HOMELESSNESS (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); LITIGATION (63%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008



280 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Harmony And The Dream

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

DATELINE: Chengdu, China 

 BODY:
 The world can be divided in many ways -- rich and poor, democratic and authoritarian -- but one of the most striking is the divide between the societies with an individualist mentality and the ones with a collectivist mentality. 
 This is a divide that goes deeper than economics into the way people perceive the world. If you show an American an image of a fish tank, the American will usually describe the biggest fish in the tank and what it is doing. If you ask a Chinese person to describe a fish tank, the Chinese will usually describe the context in which the fish swim. 
 These sorts of experiments have been done over and over again, and the results reveal the same underlying pattern. Americans usually see individuals; Chinese and other Asians see contexts.
 When the psychologist Richard Nisbett showed Americans individual pictures of a chicken, a cow and hay and asked the subjects to pick out the two that go together, the Americans would usually pick out the chicken and the cow. They're both animals. Most Asian people, on the other hand, would pick out the cow and the hay, since cows depend on hay. Americans are more likely to see categories. Asians are more likely to see relationships. 
 You can create a global continuum with the most individualistic societies -- like the United States or Britain -- on one end, and the most collectivist societies -- like China or Japan -- on the other. 
 The individualistic countries tend to put rights and privacy first. People in these societies tend to overvalue their own skills and overestimate their own importance to any group effort. People in collective societies tend to value harmony and duty. They tend to underestimate their own skills and are more self-effacing when describing their contributions to group efforts. 
 Researchers argue about why certain cultures have become more individualistic than others. Some say that Western cultures draw their values from ancient Greece, with its emphasis on individual heroism, while other cultures draw on more on tribal philosophies. Recently, some scientists have theorized that it all goes back to microbes. Collectivist societies tend to pop up in parts of the world, especially around the equator, with plenty of disease-causing microbes. In such an environment, you'd want to shun outsiders, who might bring strange diseases, and enforce a certain conformity over eating rituals and social behavior.
 Either way, individualistic societies have tended to do better economically. We in the West have a narrative that involves the development of individual reason and conscience during the Renaissance and the Enlightenment, and then the subsequent flourishing of capitalism. According to this narrative, societies get more individualistic as they develop.
 But what happens if collectivist societies snap out of their economic stagnation? What happens if collectivist societies, especially those in Asia, rise economically and come to rival the West? A new sort of global conversation develops.
 The opening ceremony in Beijing was a statement in that conversation. It was part of China's assertion that development doesn't come only through Western, liberal means, but also through Eastern and collective ones.
 The ceremony drew from China's long history, but surely the most striking features were the images of thousands of Chinese moving as one -- drumming as one, dancing as one, sprinting on precise formations without ever stumbling or colliding. We've seen displays of mass conformity before, but this was collectivism of the present -- a high-tech vision of the harmonious society performed in the context of China's miraculous growth. 
 If Asia's success reopens the debate between individualism and collectivism (which seemed closed after the cold war), then it's unlikely that the forces of individualism will sweep the field or even gain an edge. 
 For one thing, there are relatively few individualistic societies on earth. For another, the essence of a lot of the latest scientific research is that the Western idea of individual choice is an illusion and the Chinese are right to put first emphasis on social contexts.
 Scientists have delighted to show that so-called rational choice is shaped by a whole range of subconscious influences, like emotional contagions and priming effects (people who think of a professor before taking a test do better than people who think of a criminal). Meanwhile, human brains turn out to be extremely permeable (they naturally mimic the neural firings of people around them). Relationships are the key to happiness. People who live in the densest social networks tend to flourish, while people who live with few social bonds are much more prone to depression and suicide.
 The rise of China isn't only an economic event. It's a cultural one. The ideal of a harmonious collective may turn out to be as attractive as the ideal of the American Dream. 
 It's certainly a useful ideology for aspiring autocrats. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAMMALS (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); SICHUAN, CHINA (58%); EQUATOR (52%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008



281 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: For India, a One-in-a-Billion Individual Gold Medalist

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS; Hari Kumar contributed reporting.. 
Hari Kumar contributed reporting.

DATELINE: NEW DELHI 

 BODY:
India's Olympic curse has finally been lifted, by the chief executive of a computer game company with a history of back problems.
 Abhinav Bindra, 25, became the first Indian to win an individual Olympic gold medal, beating Chinese and Finnish competitors Monday in a nail-biting finish during the 10-meter air rifle competition. Bindra, a bespectacled M.B.A. from the north Indian city of Chandigarh, had shown promise as a teenage shooter but failed to win a medal in Athens, and hopes were not high before he competed in Beijing.
 Until Bindra's win, India's population of more than a billion seemed to be collectively shrugging at all the Olympic carryings-on generated by China, its neighbor and emerging global-market superpower. 
 Perhaps that is not surprising. India's performance at the Olympics has lagged behind even tiny countries whose populations and gross domestic products are a fraction the size. In Athens, India took home one medal, a silver, also in shooting. The last time India had won gold in the Olympics was more than a quarter century ago, when the men's field hockey team came out on top in the 1980 Moscow Olympics. This year, the hockey team failed to even qualify for the Games. 
 By Monday afternoon, though, this mysteriously nonathletic nation (except for cricket) seemed to have caught Olympic fever. Congratulations poured in to Bindra from India's highest offices, including that of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who hailed Bindra's ''spectacular achievement.'' 
 On the streets of the nation's capital, the mood was jubilant, and incredulous. ''I couldn't believe it,'' said Malvika Singh Rana, a 24-year-old hardware engineer in central Delhi. At first when she heard Bindra had won a gold, ''I thought he may be an nonresident Indian from Canada or United States,'' she said. But when she realized he was truly an athlete from India, ''I shouted, 'Oh my God -- an Indian has won the Olympic gold,' '' she said. 
 ''It really is a proud moment for us,'' she said. 
 The Beijing Games were a minor event until Bindra's victory. Olympic sponsorships are low-key here, advertising has been minimal and the government channel carrying the Games seems to be staffed by announcers with little knowledge of sports. 
 On Sunday, Indian Olympic officials and athletes blamed the hand of fate for disappointing performances over the weekend. 
 What, exactly, has held India back from Olympic greatness is the stuff of much debate. Logic would dictate that with more than a billion people, about half of whom are younger than 25, India should have a pool of athletic talent that rivals China, the United States and Russia. 
 India also has a rich history in athletic performing arts like dance and tales of fierce battles that show an appreciation for physical prowess. Games that meld strength with skill, like polo, have been played for decades in India, and India invented its own physically challenging sports, like kabbadi, a sort of team wrestling. Still, India has traditionally excelled more at games that favor intellect over brawn and mass, like chess or Scrabble. 
 Much of the problem with developing Olympic champions here seems to be rooted in the very same things that make India a perpetual also-ran to China in economic development: poor infrastructure, entrenched political corruption and infighting, and chaos and disorganization. Money earmarked for Olympic training is often mysteriously sidelined, facilities for training are in poor shape and equipment goes missing. 
 Bindra, whose company, Abhinav Futuristics, sells controllers for computer games, may have bypassed some of these problems. He is from a wealthy family and grew up with a shooting range in his home, according to local news reports. 
 Now, thanks to his win, he is being awarded cash and prizes in addition to praise. The Board of Control for Cricket, India's wealthiest sporting institution, said it would give Bindra 2.5 million rupees (about $59,000) as a thank you for winning the gold. Despite its cricket-focused name, the board has been encouraging Indian athletes to excel in several disciplines, including boxing, archery and wrestling. The ministry of railways said it would give Bindra a free lifetime rail pass to travel via air-conditioned car, and even his marriage prospects were looking up. 
 Bindra's mother, Babli, told the local CNN affiliate that his win ''makes him an even more eligible bachelor'' than he already was, but added, ''I think it's a bit too early to talk about him getting married.'' 
 First, she said, he should ''enjoy his win and when the time comes we'll talk'' about a wedding. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Abhinav Bindra, left, earned India's first-ever individual Olympic gold medal, winning the 10-meter air rifle competition on Monday. In India, his parents, above, rejoiced upon hearing the news. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL REYNOLDS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (92%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); FIELD HOCKEY (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS (78%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (68%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%)

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%); DELHI, INDIA (59%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); CHANDIGARH, INDIA (74%) INDIA (99%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); FINLAND (90%); CANADA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008



282 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S CHOICE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: New DVDs: 'Perils of the New Land'

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR

 BODY:
PERILS OF THE NEW LAND
 Another intriguing compilation from the silent-film specialist Flicker Alley, ''Perils of the New Land'' brings together two early features and three short films set in a New York City (that of 1910 to 1915) still being fed by waves of European immigrants. 
 George Loane Tucker's 1913 ''Traffic in Souls'' was one of the earliest American feature-length films (90 minutes, in its current version, made at a time when most American movies topped out around 30 minutes), as well as a pioneering example of the exploitation film. Its sensational subject -- the so-called white slave traffic, in which innocent young women were kidnapped and forced to serve in houses of ill repute -- made the movie a gigantic success when it was released and helped to establish the company today known as Universal Pictures. 
 ''Traffic in Souls'' is not a very accomplished film (particularly when compared with what was being made in France at the time, like Louis Feuillade's ''Fantomas''), with an excess of underdeveloped characters and a scrambled plot structure. But it enthusiastically delivers the combination of voyeuristic satisfaction (look what goes on in these places!) and moral uplift (and isn't it awful!) that has continued to power exploitation filmmaking to this day. 
 The heroine, Mary (Jane Gail), is a standard-issue plucky shopgirl who, with the help of her fiance, a handsome young cop (Matt Moore), breaks up the vice ring that has snatched her impressionable younger sister away from her honest employment at a candy store. More distinctive is the heavy, Trubus (William Welsh), a pompous society figure with luxurious mutton-chop whiskers and a private charity, the International Purity and Reform League, that is actually a front for his ''infamous'' activities, as the movie puts it. 
 Hiding behind the scenes, Trubus controls his empire through cutting-edge technology: a hidden microphone that allows him to eavesdrop on his minions, and an electronic slate that instantly transmits handwritten messages. But Mary and her policeman are able to turn this frightening new technology against Trubus -- they use a phonograph to record incriminating conversations on wax cylinders -- a way of assuring audiences that not everything new and strange (like the movies themselves) was inherently evil. 
 Shot in New York City, ''Traffic in Souls'' today has a powerful documentary component, with fascinating views of Ellis Island (never quite as squalid and crowded in contemporary films as it would be imagined later), the Upper West Side and Penn Station. 
 Though set on the Lower East Side, the second feature in the collection, Thomas H. Ince's 1915 production ''The Italian,'' was shot in the immigrant quarter of San Francisco and doesn't have the stamp of authenticity of ''Traffic in Souls.'' What it has is far stronger direction, by one of Ince's uncredited staff members, Reginald Barker, and a powerful lead performance by George Beban, a stage actor known for his ''ethnic'' characterizations. 
 Here, Beban plays Beppo, a sort of composite Italian who manages to be both urban (he works as a gondolier in Venice) and rural (he is engaged to a peasant's daughter, who lives in a village out of feudal times). He comes to America to earn his fortune and finds, in contrast to his bustling, beautiful home country, a dusty, desolate city full of predators. He sets up operations as a bootblack, but really enters the American economy only when an Irish ward heeler slips him a few bucks, urging him to get his Italian friends to vote for a corrupt councilman. 
 Barker's mobile camera and liberal use of close-ups make ''The Italian'' seem a more subjective, personal film than ''Traffic in Souls.'' The audience is drawn to identify with Beppo, even though he remains in many respects an appalling ethnic caricature: dark, brooding, vengeful. That Barker and Beban are able to create so much sympathy for Beppo, despite their own, occasionally quite obvious condescension to the character, is a mark of emerging maturity in the movie business; no longer are films dealing in one-dimensional ''types.'' 
 Beppo earns enough to bring over his fiancee, Annette (Clara Williams); they are married in a warmly filmed communal celebration, have a baby (''Little Tony,'' of course) and move into a pleasant, bright tenement apartment, all building up to a catastrophic finale. What seems to be a sunny celebration of the possibilities of life in the New World suddenly collapses into a series of devastating tragedies, leading Beppo to the brink of infanticide. No melting pot here; the experience of ''The Italian'' is more like a cauldron. 
 ''Perils of the New Land'' includes three short films from the Edison Company: a 1910 ''actuality'' film, ''Police Force, New York City,'' in which policemen practice capturing runaway carriages on the wide, unpaved lanes of Central Park; and two concise dramas, ''The Call of the City'' (Harry Beaumont, 1912) and ''McQuade of the Traffic Squad'' (Eugene Nowland, 1915). With excellent musical accompaniment by Rodney Sauer's Mont Alto Motion Picture Orchestra (for ''The Italian'') and the pianist Philip Carli (for ''Traffic in Souls''), this is one of the summer's most outstanding releases. (Flicker Alley, $39.95, not rated)
 JOY HOUSE
 Upscale Eurotrash from 1964, this overheated erotic thriller by Rene Clement was produced in French and English versions; both soundtracks are provided on this otherwise minimally appointed disc. Alain Delon, four years after his star-making appearance in Clement's ''Purple Noon,'' plays his customary handsome drifter, this time taken in by a pair of sexually aggressive Americans living in a neo-Gothic villa near Nice. 
 One is a wealthy widow played with chilly sophistication by Lola Albright; the other, her naive young cousin, is interpreted by a kittenish Jane Fonda, already dubbing her own French dialogue in what was her first European film. Both have designs on Delon, who has his own designs on them. 
 Photographed in widescreen black and white by the gifted Henri Decae, the film is both sleek and a little goofy, with a wavering tone that approaches self-parody. The air is thick with a promised perversity that never really materializes, at least in the 95-minute American release print presented here; the French cut, titled ''Les Felins,'' was 11 minutes longer. (Koch Lorber, $24.98, not rated)
 OTHER NEW RELEASES
 THE WIRE: THE COMPLETE FIFTH SEASON The acclaimed HBO series about the Baltimore police comes to its final season with a plotline centered on ethical and economic crises at the local daily newspaper. (HBO Video, $59.99, not rated)
 BRAND UPON THE BRAIN! The Canadian filmmaker Guy Maddin envisions his traumatic childhood in Winnipeg as a comic-surrealist black-and-white nightmare. (The Criterion Collection, $39.95, not rated)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: George Beban plays the lead in the 1915 film ''The Italian.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY FLICKER ALLEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (77%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (74%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); IMMIGRATION (71%); CHARITIES (50%)

COMPANY: UNIVERSAL PICTURES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008



283 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1737 words

HEADLINE: A Global Trail That Revealed A Cyber-Ring

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE; Eric Dash and Tom Zeller Jr. contributed reporting.

 BODY:
As an international ring of thieves plundered the credit card numbers of millions of Americans, investigators struggled to figure out who was orchestrating the crimes in the United States.
 When prosecutors unveiled indictments last week, they made a stunning admission: the culprit was, they said, their very own informant.
 Albert Gonzalez, 27, appeared to be a reformed hacker. To avoid prison time after being arrested in 2003, he had been helping federal agents identify his former cohorts in the online underworld where credit and debit card numbers are stolen, bought and sold.
 But on the sly, federal officials now say, Mr. Gonzalez was connecting with those same cohorts and continuing to ply his trade, using online pseudonyms -- including ''soupnazi'' -- that would be his undoing. As they tell it, Mr. Gonzalez had a central role in a loosely organized online crime syndicate that obtained tens of millions of credit and debit card numbers from nine of the biggest retailers in the United States. 
 The indictments last week of 11 people involved in the group give a remarkably comprehensive picture of how the Internet is enabling new kinds of financial crimes on a vast international scale.
 In interviews over the last few days, investigators detailed how they had tracked Mr. Gonzalez and other members of a ring that extended from Ukraine, where a key figure bought and sold stolen numbers over the Internet, to Estonia, where a hacker infiltrated the servers of a Dallas-based restaurant chain. 
 The criminals stored much of their data on computer servers in Latvia and Ukraine, and purchased blank debit and credit cards from confederates in China, which they imprinted with some of the stolen numbers for use in cash machines, investigators say.
 ''This was the largest hacking and theft of credit and debit card information ever successfully investigated and prosecuted within the United States,'' said Craig Magaw, special agent in charge of the Secret Service's criminal investigative division. ''This case shows that there are no more boundaries.''
 Mr. Gonzalez's Miami lawyer, Rene Palomino Jr., disputes the charges and says his client is merely a ''kid'' who lived with church-going parents before starting work as a government informant. Mr. Palomino said the indictment ''represents serious and substantial legal and factual challenges for the government to prove at trial.''
 The story begins five years ago in Miami, along the stretch of Route 1 called the South Dixie Highway. Starting in 2003, national retailers with outlets there, including BJ's Wholesale Club, the Sports Authority, OfficeMax, DSW and Barnes & Noble, began falling victim to ''war-drivers'' -- drive-by hackers who searched for holes in the security of wireless networks.
 According to last week's indictments, those hackers were Mr. Gonzalez and two Miami accomplices, Christopher Scott, 25, and Damon Patrick Toey, 23.
 Investigators say the conspirators began their largest theft in July 2005, when they identified a vulnerable network at a Marshall's department store in Miami and used it to place a so-called sniffer program on the computers of the chain's parent company, TJX, in Framingham, Mass. The program pulled out data like credit card numbers from the network traffic.
 Fifteen months later, the company, which also owns TJ Maxx stores, admitted that up to 45 million credit and debit card numbers had been exposed in the prolonged attack. It has already cost TJX more than $130 million in settlement claims with banks and afflicted customers.
 The Secret Service -- which is charged with combating financial fraud in addition to protecting public officials -- had until that point focused its attention on the resellers of stolen card numbers. 
 In October 2004, the agency concluded Operation Firewall, an 18-month investigation into members of the Shadowcrew Web site, where blocks of purloined card numbers, known as dumps, were bought and sold. Twenty-eight people were arrested, and a hub of the shady underworld of ''carders'' -- typically unemployed, technically sophisticated and highly arrogant young men -- was shut down.
 Assisting with that investigation was Albert Gonzalez, a Cuban-American from Miami who had been arrested in 2003 on credit card fraud charges in New Jersey and agreed to cooperate with authorities to avoid jail time. According to the Secret Service, Mr. Gonzalez helped agents surreptitiously access the Shadowcrew site and pose as interested buyers of stolen information.
 ''In order to infiltrate those organizations you have to be established,'' Mr. Magaw said. ''You cannot just get on criminal boards and start dealing with high-level players. He provided us with that ability to do that on Shadowcrew.''
 In the wake of Operation Firewall -- and the expanding wave of credit card theft emanating from south Florida -- the Secret Service began to focus on how the members of Shadowcrew and other carders were obtaining stolen credit card data.
 They focused on a ring of people, most of whom had never met in person, who were working together in cyberspace and breaking into corporate computer systems nationwide. 
 Secret Service agents from the San Diego field office homed in on Maksym Yastremskiy or ''maksik,'' 25, from the Ukrainian industrial city of Kharkiv. Agents believed that he was among the largest distributors of stolen debit and credit card numbers in the world. Mr. Yastremskiy, an indictment unveiled last week in San Diego alleges, earned over $11 million plying his trade in 2004-6 alone.
 In July 2007, the Secret Service learned that Mr. Yastremskiy was traveling on vacation to Turkey and the agency coordinated his arrest by the Turkish police outside a nightclub in Kemer. The Turkish police provided a copy of the hard drive from Mr. Yastremskiy's laptop to Secret Service agents, yielding significant breakthroughs in the case. 
 In addition to millions of stolen credit and debit card numbers, investigators found a sniffer program similar to the one used that year to capture credit card transactions at 11 restaurants in the Dave & Buster's chain. That attack, unlike earlier ones, was not conducted through war-driving. Instead, Aleksandr Suvorov, 24, an Estonian hacker, remotely accessed the chain's computers by exploiting errors in the way it set up passwords, investigators say.
 Agents brought the sniffer program to the Computer Emergency Response Center at Carnegie Mellon University, where experts compared it with another program found during the investigation of the earlier breach at TJX and found they were two versions of the same underlying code. Agents now knew conclusively that the same gang was responsible for both crimes.
 They now had to figure out who Mr. Yastremskiy was working with in the United States. A forensic analysis of his computer yielded records of conversations over the ICQ chat network between Mr. Yastremskiy and a cohort represented only by the user number 201679996. 
 In short, jargon-punctuated messages, this person took credit for supplying the software used in the Dave & Buster's attack and expressed alarm when the gang's exploits and collaborators were being exposed by investigators.
 In the end, it was a reference to a ''Seinfeld'' character that helped Secret Service agents untangle the mystery. Agents connected the ICQ user name to an e-mail address at a Russian-based Internet provider, soupnazi@efnet.ru, a reference to a cantankerous soup maker in the program. 
 Records from Mr. Gonzalez's 2003 arrests showed he had once used that e-mail address, and confidential sources told Secret Service agents that Mr. Gonzalez still used the ''soupnazi'' nickname, along with another, ''segvec.'' Tying the bow even tighter, the mysterious ICQ chatter had referred to himself as segvec.
 The agency says it immediately stopped using Mr. Gonzalez as an informant and began investigating him, in part by tracing his financial assets through online accounts. In their indictment last week, the authorities said that Mr. Gonzalez and his two Miami-based conspirators were storing millions of credit and debit card numbers on servers in Latvia and Ukraine, and imprinting some of those numbers on blank A.T.M. cards supplied by collaborators in China. They used those cards to withdraw hundreds of thousands of dollars in cash. 
 Government lawyers also said that Mr. Gonzalez had used his position as a Secret Service informant to warn fellow conspirators about ongoing investigations. They say he appeared to have been involved in most aspects of the ring's operations. 
 Secret Service agents arrested Mr. Gonzalez on May 7 at the luxurious National Hotel in Miami Beach, where he was staying with his girlfriend and, investigators say, trying to hack into the wireless networks of nearby businesses. According to the indictment, the authorities found in the hotel room two laptops, more than $20,000 in cash and a Glock 27 firearm with ammunition, although the arrest was peaceful. 
 They found another computer, a hard drive and a currency counter in a one-bedroom condominium Mr. Gonzalez owned in a working-class Miami neighborhood.
 Neither Mr. Gonzalez nor his parents were available for comment, though Mr. Palomino, his lawyer, said the family was shaken. ''Here is the attorney general of the United States announcing the charges against your son and telling the whole world that he is looking at life in prison,'' he said. ''It's shellshock.''
 Mr. Gonzalez is now in jail in New York, on charges related to the Dave & Buster's theft. His two Miami conspirators are expected to turn themselves in to the authorities in Boston soon, the Secret Service says. 
 Meanwhile, the Justice Department is negotiating for the extradition of Mr. Yastremskiy from Turkey, where he is imprisoned. The Secret Service coordinated the arrest of Mr. Suvorov, the Estonian, at an airport in Frankfurt last March. He is now in a German jail.
 Members of the financial services industry are applauding. 
 ''We were always trying to get law enforcement to go after these guys for us,'' said a payments industry executive who would speak only anonymously. ''Over the last two or three years, the Secret Service has devoted lots of time to it. This at least sends a message to the criminal side that there are folks coming after you, even if you are operating outside the United States.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: AN INTERNATIONAL WEB: The Justice Department has charged 11 people with operating an international identity theft ring that stole millions of credit card account numbers. According to the indictments, here is who was involved and how most of the crimes were carried out.: TRAFFICKING EASTERN EUROPE: Stored stolen identity information and used it to make and distribute fake credit cards.
IDENTITY THEFT MIAMI: Hacked into wireless computer networks of national chains in the Miami area and stole credit card information.
 MAKING CREDIT CARDS CHINA AND UNKNOWN: Sold plastic blanks and equipment used to make fake credit cards. (Source: Justice Department) (pg.A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (90%); COMPUTER CRIME (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); INTERNET CRIME (78%); RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (76%); RETAILERS (75%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); ARRESTS (73%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (72%); NETWORK SERVERS (69%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (69%); INTERVIEWS (66%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (66%); RESTAURANTS (64%); LARCENY & THEFT (58%)

COMPANY: BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (51%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); UKRAINE (92%); EUROPE (79%); ESTONIA (79%); LATVIA (78%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008



284 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2198 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES, AUG. 12, 2008

 BODY:
International
 THOUSANDS MORE SEEK REFUGE
 From Violence in the Philippines
 In the southern Philippines, the number of people turned out of their homes by recent violence between the government and Islamic separatists has swelled to 130,000. Many of the refugees, of whom a majority are Muslim, are being housed in over 40 emergency encampments while others have left to stay with relatives elsewhere, but social welfare officials warned of a possible crisis on the horizon. In the fighting itself, 2 soldiers and at least 15 rebels have been reported killed. Page A12 
 AFGHAN SUICIDE BOMB KILLS THREE
 A convoy of NATO-led forces on the eastern outskirts of Kabul, Afghanistan, was struck by a suicide car bomb, killing three civilians and wounding about a dozen others, the Afghan police said. In addition, the United States acknowledged that it killed eight civilians and wounded three on Sunday when it bombed a house occupied by militants; 25 militants were also killed. Page A13 
 JORDAN'S KING PAYS VISIT TO IRAQ
 King Abdullah II of Jordan visited Iraq, becoming the first Arab leader to visit the country since Saddam Hussein fell. The visit appeared to be a source of optimism for Iraqi officials, who cited it as a sign of Iraq's new stability. Leaders discussed the return of Iraqi refugees from Jordan and a discounted price of crude oil to Jordan. The king also called on other Arab leaders to extend a hand to Iraq, because a strong Iraq ''is a source of strength for the Arab nation.'' Page A13 
 FROZEN CASH IS TOO HEAVY TO CARRY
 Skipping a court appearance and leaving behind more than $2 billion in assets, Thaksin Shinawatra, the former prime minister of Thailand, announced he was taking refuge in London. The assets were frozen by the very generals who ousted him two years ago, and in response to his recent flight, the Thai government has issued arrest warrants for him and his wife, ordering that Mr. Thaksin's bail money be seized, bringing the grand total to $2.4 billion in forfeited assets. Exile is expensive. Page A14 
 INDIA'S FRUSTRATION WITH PAKISTAN
 As rivals, India and Pakistan stand on the wreckage of their mutual peace: there is dialogue, but a frustrating one, Indian and American officials say. Pakistan's new civilian government is in talks with India, but India claims that the talks are useless because the people who actually have the power to decide war and peace are not negotiating, in a reference to Pakistan's powerful army and its spy agency. Stakes are higher now than ever, as cease-fire violations have climbed and relations between the two nuclear-capablecountries are at an all-time low. A Memo from New Delhi. Page A14 
 National
 A LONG SHOT 
 Crashes Montana Senate Race
 Bob Kelleher, the Republican nominee for senator in Montana, faces some major hurdles in his campaign. He is persona non grata among state Republicans, who would not let him speak at the convention in June. His opponent is a 30-year incumbent who has a $5 million campaign war chest, compared with Mr. Kelleher's $10,000. And he wants to replace the American system of government with a parliamentary democracy patterned on England's. PAGE A15
 SPOTLIGHT ON MCCAIN'S RUSSIA POLICY
 Senator John McCain's hard line against Russia in recent years is being newly scrutinized through the prism of Russia's invasion. In the past, he has called for excluding Russia from the Group of 8 and isolating it on the world stage. Neoconservatives who consider promoting democracy a paramount goal see his position as principled, and prescient. PAGE A19
 INSIDE CLINTON CAMPAIGN'S COLLAPSE
 An article published on The Atlantic Monthly's Web site portrays Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's presidential campaign as riven by backbiting, poor management and conflicting strategies that contributed to her loss to Senator Barack Obama. The article cites internal campaign memorandums that detail Mrs. Clinton's eruptions at staff members, and show her campaign shifting from strategy to strategy. PAGE A15
 AFTER 47 YEARS, RUNNING WATER
 The mostly black section of Zanesville, Ohio, called Coal Run Road finally has running water. Last month, a federal jury cited a violation of civil rights law, and ordered the City of Zanesville and Muskingum County to pay nearly $11 million in damages for failing to provide water to each of 67 plaintiffs for more than 45 years. On the day the clean water first gushed through the pipes, many in the neighborhood wept. PAGE A15
 New York Report
 'PREPPY KILLER' PLEADS GUILTY 
 To Cocaine Charges
 Twenty-two years ago, Robert E. Chambers Jr. became a symbol of teenage socialite arrogance after he killed a young woman in Central Park. On Monday, he pleaded guilty to selling cocaine, in exchange for a sentence that prosecutors said would keep him in prison nearly until retirement age. Mr. Chambers, 41, whose square jaw and clean looks earned him the moniker ''the Preppy Killer,'' was cited for several violations -- including drug possession -- while serving his sentence for manslaughter. PAGE A21
 Rolling Out 'Green' Escalators
 The Metropolitan Transportation Authority introduced its new ''green escalators,'' which are intended to slow down when they are not in use and speed up when a motion-detection device senses that a rider has stepped on. But the debut was not without its hitches. The agency said that only 22 of the 35 escalators introduced at four stations were working as intended in the afternoon. PAGE A21
 Business
 FROM MEDALS TO MARKETING
 It's Olympics time once again, which means that athletes -- even the retired ones -- are clamoring for endorsements. Every four years, those athletes are once again hot commodities, cashing in on their former fame. ''We planned our wedding around the '04 Olympics; we planned our little girl being born at the end of '06, when '07 wasn't as busy,'' said Janet Evans, who won gold medals in 1988 and 1992. ''My husband teases me, we plan in quadrenniums.'' PAGE C3
 PASSPORTS INSTEAD OF PINK SLIPS
 With the markets sagging in the United States, Wall Street firms are moving some employees overseas to places where the economies have the potential for growth. Even laid-off workers are seeing interest from companies abroad. But for a lot of bankers, the moves are less than voluntary. ''Some are being told, 'I don't care if your wife has to stay here, this is what you have to do,' '' said an executive at a finance hiring firm. PAGE C1
 WAR RATTLES RUSSIAN MARKET
 With the fighting between Russia and Georgia escalating, markets in Moscow fell sharply for a time and then recovered amid fears among investors that the conflict might endanger Russia's economic relations with the West. The ruble also fell in early trading, before the Russian central bank intervened, buying its currency to provide support, traders said. PAGE C3
 ARTS
 PAVING THEIR PARADISE
 To Put Up a Parking Lot
 A portion of an alley used as an outdoor studio by the artists Laddie John Dill and Ed Ruscha in Venice Beach, Calif., has been slated by the City of Los Angeles to become a metered parking lot. The project has quickly emerged as a fight between the artistic values that led to the renewal of Venice and the commercial interests that are reshaping the community. PAGE B1 
 A ROLE CLOSE TO HOME, TWICE OVER
 She is a former B-list television star from a half-forgotten but once-popular nighttime soap opera (Susan Sullivan, ''Falcon Crest'') starring in an Off-Broadway play (''Buffalo Gal'') about a former B-list television star from a half-forgotten but once-popular series who goes back to her hometown to appear in a local production of a Chekhov play (''Cherry Orchard''), which is about -- an actress returning to her home and confronting her past. PAGE B1 
 A SUMMER OF COMEDY FOR THE WEB
 How did some ''Saturday Night Live'' writers and actors spend a hot, humid week of July? Creating, shooting and distributing a new original comedy Web series called ''The Line.'' Financed by Lorne Michaels' production company, it showcases the passion and perversion of fans waiting 11 days for the premiere of a science-fiction film. PAGE B1 
 Science
 WHAT YOU DON'T KNOW 
 Might Be Better for You
 Could more cancer screening actually be detrimental to patients? Last week, a group of scientists urged doctors to stop screening men 75 and older for prostate cancer, arguing that it did little to improve long-term outlook, but instead increased the numbers of false positives and exposed patients to unnecessary and invasive treatments. PAGE D5
 FILLING IN MAGIC'S GAPS
 Sure, magicians like to throw in smoke and fire to misdirect their audiences, but they probably don't need to. A new paper in the journal Nature Reviews Neuroscience describes how magic tricks, from the simple to the spectacular, take advantage of glitches in how the brain works: approximating, cutting corners, instantaneously and subconsciously choosing what to ''see'' and what to let pass. PAGE D1
 LET THE GAMES BE DOPED
 A growing chorus of critics is taking issue with the antidoping policies used in the sports world. They say the alternative -- the system we currently rely on -- sows suspicions among competitors and relies on faulty testing that does not keep up with advances in technology. John Tierney asks: Is it time to let athletes do whatever they need to excel? PAGE D1
 Sports
 READYING FOR THE END
 Of American Olympic Dominance
 The United States' long stranglehold on athletic dominance in the Summer Olympics is loosening. China, the host country, is taking its place as the pre-eminent athletic superpower, and with its huge population, booming economy and surging athletic ambitions, it's not likely to be stopped. Harvey Araton, Sports of the Times. PAGE C11
 WINNING ON HIS OWN TERMS
 Going into the Summer Games, Michael Phelps was the most famous member of the United States Olympic swim team. But for a while, at least, he'll be sharing the spotlight with the enigmatic Jason Lezak, who made up a half-a-body-length lead in the final 25 meters to win the men's 4x100-meter freestyle -- and set a new world record. ''I think he has some kind of magical touch,'' his mentor said. ''You don't know why he gets his hand to the wall better than most people but he does.'' PAGE C11
 OUT OF PAIN, THROUGH JUDO
 Ronda Rousey's father used to rouse her from sleep in the wee hours when she was younger to take her to swim meets in their home state of North Dakota, and he told her she would be in the Olympics. And she is -- and favored to win gold, to boot -- but in judo, not swimming. She will do so without her father, who committed suicide when she was 8. ''It's the kind of thing where he would have flipped out,'' she said. ''It would have made his life to see me go to this Olympics.'' PAGE C11
 BRITAIN'S HOPE FOR GOLD
 Great Britain is starved for Olympic glory, and is trying to improve upon its nadir in 1996, when it won just a single gold medal. Much of its hope rests on the small shoulders of Tom Daley, a 14-year-old diver who at 5 feet 1 inch and 104 pounds is smaller than more than half the women competing in his events. PAGE C16
 obituaries
 GEORGE FURTH, 75
 As a playwright, he collaborated with Stephen Sondheim on the Tony Award-winning musical ''Company.'' As a ubiquitous character actor, his television credits describe a history of popular series from the 1960s to the '90s, and his most memorable role was as Woodcock, the loyal railway employee who allows himself to be blown up not once, but twice, by Paul Newman's Butch Cassidy, rather than let the train he is riding be robbed. PAGE c9
 ORVILLE MOODY, 74
 He spent 14 years in the Army playing and teaching golf. Then in 1969, he emerged from obscurity to win the United States Open, his only PGA Tour victory. Moody, affectionately known as Sarge, proved to be an outstanding shot maker and he was a five-time runner-up on the PGA Tour, but he was ultimately stymied by poor putting. PAGE C9
 Editorial
 RUSSIA'S WAR OF AMBITION
 No one is blameless in the war that has erupted between Georgia and Russia. But there is no imaginable excuse for Russia's invasion. The United States and its European allies must make clear to Vladimir Putin that the military aggression will not be tolerated and that there will be no redivision of Europe. Page A22
 THREE YEARS AFTER KATRINA
 The pace of recovery is slowing in New Orleans. The next president and Congress will need to expedite assistance before the city's mood turns from guarded optimism back to despair. Page A22
 Op-ed
 DAVID BROOKS
 The rise of China isn't only an economic event. It's a cultural one. The ideal of a harmonious collective may turn out to be as attractive as the ideal of the American Dream. Page A23
 BOB HERBERT
 The public takes the fraudulent bait on the merits of offshore drilling. Page A23
 RUSSIA BLAMES THE VICTIM
 In an Op-Ed article, Svante E. Cornell of Johns Hopkins University writes that while Georgia has played a losing game with Russia, the United States should still confront Moscow, ideally by persuading allies to ban Russia from the Group of 8 industrialized nations. Page A23

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ASSET FORFEITURE (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); ARMIES (77%); REFUGEES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); RELIGION (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (75%); SUICIDE (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); ARREST WARRANTS (69%); ARRESTS (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) MONTANA, USA (92%) IRAQ (95%); INDIA (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); PHILIPPINES (94%); JORDAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008



285 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Gain As Oil's Fall Continues

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Oil prices fell again Monday, and the beaten-down dollar was bouncing back.
 For a time, crude oil traded under $113 a barrel, reaching its lowest level in three months before settling at $114.45, down 75 cents. And the euro, so strong for so long, tumbled below $1.49 to its weakest value since February.
 The developments extended similar moves on Friday and were welcomed on Wall Street, where stocks ended higher despite a discouraging report on credit from the Federal Reserve. 
 But the favorable moves in commodities and currencies may not be a sign that a financial recovery is just around the corner. What is driving the reversals, analysts said, may be widespread expectation that the global economy will suffer even more.
 ''There has been a gradual shift in sentiment in favor of the dollar, mainly due to what's going on overseas,'' said Meg Browne, a currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman. ''Italy has unexpectedly posted a contraction in the second quarter, and Germany is likely to follow this week. Japan, Australia and New Zealand are having trouble.''
 In other words, it's not that the American economy is getting better. It's that other countries may be doing worse. 
 The upward momentum for the dollar began last week, after the European Central Bank warned that the collective economy of its 15 member nations was showing signs of a slowdown. On Friday, Italy reported that its economy unexpectedly shrank last quarter, and Germany may also report a contraction.
 ''It was the first time that the E.C.B. had tipped its hat toward acknowledging economic weakness,'' said David Gilmore, a partner at Foreign Exchange Analytics in Essex, Conn. ''Up until then, the markets were singularly focused on how bad it is in the U.S.''
 The bleak news means that the European bank will probably lower its benchmark interest rate in the near future, in effect making it cheaper to borrow money in the form of euros. That reduces the value of the euro against other currencies and helps the value of the dollar to rise.
 Until last week, Europe's chief central banker, Jean-Claude Trichet, had seemed more concerned about choking off inflation by raising interest rates. His remarks last Thursday led to a shift in sentiment among currency traders about how the euro could be valued by early next year.
 Since Friday, the dollar has gained 2.6 percent against the euro, which closed on Monday at $1.4928.
 These same bleak forecasts have helped tamp down the price of oil, which fell 75 cents on Monday to settle at $114.45 a barrel, after touching its lowest level since May 2.
 For months, oil seemed to rise on the slightest signs of supply disruptions or tensions in the Middle East and other crude-producing regions. But some analysts now say they think that demand for energy will fall as the world's economies slow; on Monday, oil prices fell despite the breakout of violence between Russia and Georgia.
 Still, oil prices are 60 percent higher than they were a year ago. And it is impossible to tell where the dollar will move.
 ''You can't say the all-clear has sounded,'' said Jonathan Lewis, who manages currency strategy at Samson Capital Advisors. ''Is it really a surprise to see a correction? It shouldn't be. Did the global economy change that much in the past few weeks? No.''
 But crude oil and the dollar may continue to move in tandem. Commodities are priced in dollars, so many investors use raw materials as a hedge against their currency bets. When the dollar strengthens, oil tends to cheapen, and vice versa.
 On Monday, the market moves helped push the Dow Jones industrial average up 48 points, or 0.4 percent, to 11,782.35. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 0.7 percent, to 1,305.32, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index gained more than 1 percent, to 2,439.95. 
 The Dow was up nearly 140 points in midafternoon, but the major indexes fell back after the Fed said that many domestic banks tightened their lending standards in the last three months, confirming fears that the credit crisis remains a serious problem for businesses and households, particularly Americans seeking mortgages.
 The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 17/32, to 100 2/32. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, rose to 3.99 percent, from 3.93 percent.
 Following are the results of Monday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills: 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE (Sources: Aswsociated Press
Bloomberg)
 THE FAVORITES (Source: Charles Schwab) (pg.C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); EURO (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (70%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); INTEREST RATES (61%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (67%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AUSTRALIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008



286 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Where a Town Goes for Hardware, but Also Neighborly Talk and Entertainment

BYLINE: By JANE GOTTLIEB

DATELINE: PALATINE BRIDGE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
When Alan Wainwright was searching for a spot for his classic car gatherings, he turned to the local hardware store. It was the logical choice, a new gathering spot in a section of the Mohawk Valley that will soon lose its most important employer.
 ''The area feels right. It's nothing you can put a finger on,'' Mr. Wainwright, who organizes the ''cruise-in'' of classic cars, said of the store, Dutchtown Ace Hardware in Palatine Bridge. ''Our guys won't go to a place unless it feels right.'' 
 So every other Friday this summer, as many as 40 cars -- from a Model A to a '68 Chevy -- pull in to the store's vast parking lot to show off paint jobs and clean interiors. 
 Mr. Wainwright, known to his friends as Big Al, plays oldies music. The Fire Department from neighboring Canajoharie fires up a barbecue to raise money, with the owners of the hardware store, Scott Dillenback and John Macci, often taking a turn at the grill. The store stays open an hour later than usual, even though it does not take in much during a cruise-in.
 Dutchtown Ace Hardware is just across the Mohawk River from Canajoharie, and in the year since it opened, it has added a spark in this old farm and factory community in an all-too-quiet stretch of the valley.
 Besides the car event, the store has become the site for car washes and a harvest festival. It is a place where neighbors catch up and even those who have not bought a nut or bolt plan to be at the store later this summer when it celebrates its first anniversary. 
 ''The biggest thing about the hardware store is the fact that we have a hardware store,'' said Peg McGregor, 79, who works for the Canajoharie-Palatine Chamber of Commerce. ''Something has to give here. Maybe they can lead the way.''
 Ms. McGregor was working at the welcome booth in Canajoharie, where she was ready to hand out fliers promoting nearby attractions like the Erie Canal, the Canajoharie Falls and the National Baseball Hall of Fame at Cooperstown. Instead, most cars exiting the New York State Thruway just whizzed past. 
 Once-busy shops along Church Street, the main thoroughfare in Canajoharie, are gone. So is the Ames department store that stood in Dutchtown Plaza -- the same strip mall where the hardware store is located -- which closed as shoppers migrated to malls in Utica, Herkimer and Albany, about an hour's drive away. The Big M grocery store was destroyed in 2006 when the Mohawk River overflowed its banks and ruined or damaged hundreds of homes and businesses.
 With the damage from the flood largely repaired, Canajoharie is now bracing for another big setback: the planned shutdown in two years of the workplace that put the community on the map. Beech-Nut, the food manufacturing company that started there in 1891 and once filled the streets with the smell of bubble gum, will move its operations and its 300 workers to a new business park 14 miles away.
 Still, some residents see promise in the handful of businesses that have opened on Church Street. One, a restaurant called Church and Main, has attracted a strong following and a write-up in Bon Appetit. There is hope, too, in the $10 million Arkell Museum opened last fall with a collection (once owned by Beech-Nut) of Winslow Homer paintings. 
 And then there is the new hardware store at the top of the hill. A 13,000-square-foot emporium with workers in red vests, it sells items like slop boots, chicken feeders and wind chimes along with hardware. Amish shoppers buy faucets for hand pumps and fuel oil. Clerks do not mind visiting homes to make repairs or deliveries.
 The store's formula has paid off, with sales so far exceeding $1 million from about 65,000 transactions in a region that has roughly 10,000 residents. 
 ''Having some conveniences makes you feel your community is worth something,'' said Frank Steventon, 31, who was shopping at the store for supplies to fix his deck. ''This issue with Beech-Nut is demeaning. It doesn't seem anything gets better around here. It gets worse. It's nice to see something new coming in.''
 Mr. Dillenback and Mr. Macci, who are both 50, did not open the store because they wanted to try to repair the region's economic woes. They simply saw a business opportunity in an area that lacked purveyors of basic goods. But the men, who became friends when they were students at Hamilton College, came to believe that contributing to their community was also important.
 ''Obviously for John, who lives in the area, and for me, growing up here, we've got deep roots,'' said Mr. Dillenback, who spent his early years a few miles from the store in Fort Plain. ''We wanted to be able to provide something more than merchandise.''
 Most mornings, horse-drawn wood buggies carrying Amish customers pull up to the hitching post outside the store, next to where Mr. Wainwright's classic cars line up. Katie Mast, an Amish woman, said her family was grateful for the store, which has sliced their shopping trips from two hours to half an hour. 
 Very often, shoppers are greeted by a border collie outfitted with a red vest and a name tag. The collie, Kep, who belongs to Mr. Macci, enjoys accompanying children through the store. And his appeal is not lost on Sharon LaPrade, a volunteer with a cat rescue organization who buys cat food at the hardware store. 
 ''We were just talking about asking John if we could use the store to do pet portraits with Santa as a fund-raiser,'' she said. ''It just seems like that kind of a place.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Macci, a co-owner, and his dog, Kep, at Dutchtown Ace Hardware in Palatine Bridge, N.Y. Nearly a year old, the store has become vital to an area that has suffered a number of setbacks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); HARDWARE STORES (90%); FUNDRAISING (87%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); BASEBALL (73%); FESTIVALS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (67%); ANNIVERSARIES (63%); FLOODS & FLOODING (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTICA, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008



287 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; AMERICAN EXCEPTION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1557 words

HEADLINE: Experts Hired to Shed Light Can Leave U.S. Courts in Dark

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

 BODY:
Judge Denver D. Dillard was trying to decide whether a slow-witted Iowa man accused of acting as a drug mule was competent to stand trial. But the conclusions of the two psychologists who gave expert testimony in the case, Judge Dillard said, were ''polar opposites.''
 One expert, who had been testifying for defendants for 20 years, said the accused, Timothy M. Wilkins, was mentally retarded, had a verbal I.Q. of 58 and did not understand the proceedings. 
 The prosecution expert, who had testified for the state more than 200 times, said that Mr. Wilkins's verbal I.Q. was 88, far above the usual cutoffs for mental retardation, and that he was competent to stand trial. 
 Judge Dillard, of the Johnson County District Court in Iowa City, did what American judges and juries often do after hearing from dueling experts: he threw up his hands. The two experts were biased in favor of the parties who employed them, the judge said, and they had given predictable testimony.
 ''The two sides have canceled each other out,'' the judge wrote in 2005, refusing either expert's conclusion and complaining that ''no funding mechanism'' existed for him to appoint an expert.
 In most of the rest of the world, expert witnesses are selected by judges and are meant to be neutral and independent. Many foreign lawyers have long questioned the American practice of allowing the parties to present testimony from experts they have chosen and paid.
 The European judge who visits the United States experiences ''something bordering on disbelief when he discovers that we extend the sphere of partisan control to the selection and preparation of experts,'' John H. Langbein, a law professor at Yale, wrote in a classic article in The University of Chicago Law Review more than 20 years ago. 
 Partisan experts do appear in court in other common-law nations, including Canada, Singapore and New Zealand. But the United States amplifies their power by using juries in civil cases, a practice most of the common-law world has rejected. 
 Juries often find it hard to evaluate expert testimony on complex scientific matters, many lawyers say, and they tend to make decisions based on the expert's demeanor, credentials and ability to present difficult information without condescension. An appealingly folksy expert, lawyers say, can have an outsize effect in a jury trial.
 Some major common-law countries are turning away from partisan experts. England and Australia have both adopted aggressive measures in recent years to address biased expert testimony.
 Both sides in Mr. Wilkins's case said the American approach to expert testimony was problematic.
 ''One's biased for the defense,'' said Rockne O. Cole, Mr. Wilkins's lawyer. ''The other's biased for the state. I think it's who's signing their paycheck.'' 
 Anne M. Lahey, an assistant prosecutor in Johnson County, Iowa, largely agreed. ''They're usually offsetting as far as their opinions are concerned,'' she said of expert testimony.
 Judge Dillard ruled that Mr. Wilkins was not competent to stand trial, a decision an appeals court reversed last year, though it accepted the judge's conclusion that the experts had canceled each other out. Since it is the defense's burden to prove incompetence, the appeals court said, the tie went to the state. The case against Mr. Wilkins was dismissed in October for reasons unrelated to his competency, said Janet M. Lyness, the prosecutor in Johnson County. A confidential informant crucial to the case against Mr. Wilkins could not be found, she said.
 Dr. Frank Gersh, the defense expert in the case, did not respond to a request for comment. But Dr. Leonard Welsh, the psychologist who testified for the state, said he sometimes found his work compromising.
 ''After you come out of court,'' Dr. Welsh said, ''you feel like you need a shower. They're asking you to be certain of things you can't be certain of.''
 He might have preferred a new way of hearing expert testimony that Australian lawyers call hot tubbing. 
 In that procedure, also called concurrent evidence, experts are still chosen by the parties, but they testify together at trial -- discussing the case, asking each other questions, responding to inquiries from the judge and the lawyers, finding common ground and sharpening the open issues. In the Wilkins case, by contrast, the two experts ''did not exchange information,'' the Court of Appeals for Iowa noted in its decision last year.
 Australian judges have embraced hot tubbing. ''You can feel the release of the tension which normally infects the evidence-gathering process,'' Justice Peter McClellan of the Land and Environmental Court of New South Wales said in a speech on the practice. ''Not confined to answering the question of the advocates,'' he added, experts ''are able to more effectively respond to the views of the other expert or experts.''
 In a dispute over the boundary of an Australian wine region, for instance, ''there were lots of hot tubs -- marketers, historians, viniculturalists,'' said Gary Edmond, a law professor at the University of New South Wales in Sydney.
 Joe S. Cecil, an authority on expert testimony at the Federal Judicial Center, a research and education agency in Washington, said hot tubbing might represent the best solution yet to the problem of bias in expert testimony.
 ''Assuming the judge has an active interest in ferreting out the truth and the experts are candid, I prefer the hot-tubbing option,'' Mr. Cecil said. ''But those are two bold assumptions, and the procedure drives the attorneys nuts.''
 But Professor Edmond said hot tubbing in Australia had drawbacks and was ''based on a simplistic model of expertise.''
 ''Judges think that if we could just have a place in the adversarial trial that was a little less adversarial and a little more scientific, everything would be fine,'' Professor Edmond said. ''But science can be very acrimonious.''
 England has also recently instituted what Adrian Zuckerman, the author of a 2006 treatise there, called ''radical measures'' to address ''the culture of confrontation that permeated the use of experts in litigation.'' The measures included placing experts under the complete control of the court, requiring a single expert in many cases and encouraging cooperation among experts when the parties retain more than one. Experts are required to sign a statement saying their duty is to the court and not to the party paying their bills.
 There are no signs of similar changes in the United States. ''The American tendency is strictly the party-appointed expert,'' said James Maxeiner, a professor of comparative law at the University of Baltimore. ''There is this proprietary interest lawyers here have over lawsuits.''
 American lawyers often interview many potential expert witnesses in search of ones who will bolster their case and then work closely with them in framing their testimony to be accessible and helpful. At a minimum, the process results in carefully tailored testimony. Some critics say it can also produce bias and ethical compromises.
 ''To put it bluntly, in many professions, service as an expert witness is not considered honest work,'' Samuel R. Gross, a law professor at the University of Michigan, wrote in the Wisconsin Law Review. ''The contempt of lawyers and judges for experts is famous. They regularly describe expert witnesses as prostitutes.'' 
 Melvin Belli, the famed trial lawyer, endorsed this view. ''If I got myself an impartial witness,'' he once said, ''I'd think I was wasting my money.''
 The United States Supreme Court has expressed concerns about expert testimony, but it has addressed bias only indirectly, by requiring lower courts to tighten standards of admissibility and to reject what some call ''junk science.'' 
 Trials in the United States routinely feature expert testimony, and there is a thriving litigation-support industry matching experts and lawyers. Expert witnesses in major cases often charge $500 to $1,000 an hour. More than 40 percent of all experts, according to a 2002 study of federal civil trials by the Federal Judicial Center, give medical testimony. Economists and engineers also appear frequently as expert witnesses.
 Judges and lawyers agreed, in separate surveys conducted by the center in 1998 and 1999, that the biggest problem with expert testimony was that ''experts abandon objectivity and become advocates for the side that hires them.''
 American judges are generally free to appoint their own experts, but they seldom do. 
 Oscar G. Chase, a law professor at New York University and an editor of the textbook ''Civil Litigation in Comparative Context,'' said there was a reason for that.
 ''Many judges, if not most, have been trial lawyers, and they are suspicious that any expert is truly neutral,'' Professor Chase said ''The virtue of our system is that it allows people to sort of balance things out.''
 Indeed, said Jennifer L. Mnookin, a law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, who recently wrote about expert testimony in the Brooklyn Law Review, ''neutrals risk being a sort of false cure'' because ''there are often cases where there are genuine disagreements.'' 
 The future, Professor Mnookin said, may belong to Australia. ''Hot tubbing,'' she said, ''is much more interesting than neutral experts.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: EXPERT TESTIMONY: A survey of federal civil trials in 1998 showed that medical and mental health specialists were most often used as expert witnesses. Another survey of judges showed that most witnesses gave testimony about injury or damage. (Source: Psychology, Public Policy and Law) (pg.A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (90%); EXPERT WITNESSES (90%); WITNESSES (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); MENTAL RETARDATION (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) IOWA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); ENGLAND (54%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008



288 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Recall Leads Whole Foods To a Change

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
Whole Foods Market said Monday it would tighten oversight of its suppliers to keep substandard products out of stores, after recalling ground beef that apparently sickened customers in two states.
 Scrambling to contain the fallout from a recall that threatens the chain's reputation for quality, Whole Foods acknowledged that it had failed to catch an important change made by one of its suppliers of ground beef, Coleman Natural Beef.
 After coming under new ownership, Coleman Natural began using a slaughterhouse in Omaha that had received multiple citations and had fought a long-running battle with the Agriculture Department. The government has said the plant was the source of ground beef that has sickened scores of people around the country. 
 Most of the beef was sold at grocers other than Whole Foods and recalled this summer. An additional 1.2 million pounds were recalled on Friday by the processor after illnesses in several states were tentatively linked to ground beef sold at Whole Foods and other stores.
 At least four regional grocery chains -- Fred Meyer, King Soopers and City Market, all owned by the Kroger Company, and Dorothy Lane -- have also recalled suspect beef packages in recent days.
 Whole Foods acknowledged that a code stamped on beef packages arriving at its stores accurately reflected the change in processing plants. But the grocery chain said it had no procedures in place to watch the codes on arriving meat packages, and therefore failed to notice it was getting beef from a packing plant it had never approved. 
 Whole Foods will immediately institute new procedures to detect such a change in the future, the chain said. A spokeswoman, Libba Letton, said the company would also undertake a broad review of procedures for approving suppliers and scrutinizing the quality of products.
 ''It's going to mean going back and examining these other things and making sure there aren't holes, especially in terms of food safety,'' Ms. Letton said.
 In addition to auditing shipments more carefully, Whole Foods will also require E. coli testing of beef that goes beyond government requirements, she said.
 The recall is the latest blow for a company already struggling with anemic sales growth because of the economic slowdown. 
 ''The assumption is that for the extra money that you pay for most Whole Foods products, in return you're getting something that's safer, fresher and more nutritious,'' said Gene Grabowski, head of the crisis and litigation practice at Levick Strategic Communications, who has handled several food-recall cases. ''And this damages that perception a great deal.''
 The beef in question, which has been linked to illnesses in several states, came from an Omaha company called Nebraska Beef. The same company had, earlier this summer, processed the 5.3 million pounds of beef linked to nearly 50 cases of infection with a disease-causing strain of the organism E. coli.
 Whole Foods has long bought beef from Coleman Natural Foods, of Golden, Colo. That company announced in April it would sell its beef line to Meyer Natural Angus, of Loveland, Colo. After the sale, Coleman apparently started processing some of its beef at Nebraska Beef, of Omaha.
 Ms. Letton said Coleman was obliged to get Whole Foods' approval for the change, but did not do so. ''We relied on our suppliers to follow the rules,'' she said.
 After buying the beef line, Meyer received rights to use the Coleman brand name for a year with existing customers, said Katie Coakley, a spokeswoman for Coleman Natural Foods. A Meyer Natural Angus spokesman, Del Holzer, confirmed that Meyer is using the Coleman name.
 He declined to comment further and would not address questions about why Meyer began using the Nebraska plant. A representative for Nebraska Beef did not return calls on Monday requesting comment.
 Ms. Letton said Whole Foods scrutinizes every supplier on how it raises, transports, slaughters and processes animals, and audits suppliers every year.
 ''They already have a lot more inspection than most retailers would have,'' said Doc Hatfield, a rancher in Brothers, Ore., who is part of a cooperative that sells beef to Whole Foods.
 Whole Foods recalled all fresh ground beef sold between June 2 and Aug. 6 at its stores in Connecticut, Rhode Island, Maine, Massachusetts, Florida, New Jersey, New York, Kentucky, Maryland, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia, the District of Columbia, Alabama, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Illinois, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, and Wisconsin.
 Food-safety advocates said that the recall was troubling.
 ''Part of this is, this is another example of a broken federal system that hasn't put enough resources into stopping this problem,'' said Jaydee Hanson, policy director at the Center for Food Safety in Washington. 
 As for Whole Foods, ''they have positioned themselves as a company that takes food safety very seriously,'' he said. ''If they really didn't know who was processing beef for them, they should have.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Whole Foods is struggling with weak sales growth. Above, a store in TriBeCa in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GIANNI CIPRIANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEEF (90%); FOOD RECALLS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PRODUCT SAFETY (78%); E COLI (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (78%); FOOD SAFETY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); LITIGATION (50%)

COMPANY: WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (90%); KROGER CO (68%)

TICKER: WFM (NASDAQ) (90%); KR (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (90%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); OMAHA, NE, USA (72%) NEBRASKA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008



289 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: As Wall Street Stumbles ...

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
Moving boxes have become a common sight at Wall Street firms, where tens of thousands of bankers and traders have been laid off as the credit squeeze drags on. But a few of the people packing up and saying goodbye are holding passports rather than pink slips. And some are being told to move abroad -- or else.
 As Wall Street's troubles deepen, big investment banks are moving some key employees to increasingly influential hubs of finance in Asia, the Middle East, Europe and Latin America, regions where the banks had already been building up business to tap rising growth potential. 
 This trend is happening alongside another that is funneling jobs from traditional financial centers like New York and London. Because of price pressure, jobs lower down the corporate ladder are moving overseas, especially India. 
 For many bankers, moving abroad is an experience they had always wanted. For the banks, the relocations are a way to retain skilled workers who might otherwise be caught in waves of layoffs that have already claimed 80,000 finance jobs globally. 
 ''Banks like Morgan Stanley and Merrill Lynch are playing musical chairs,'' said Gustavo G. Dolfino, president of the WhiteRock Group, a finance hiring firm. ''Why are they doing this? They want to keep the talent.'' 
 Relocating workers, while expensive, makes sense as record revenues are flowing in from places other than Wall Street. For a number of bankers, though, the moves are less voluntary. 
 ''Some are being told, 'I don't care if your wife has to stay here, this is what you have to do,' '' Mr. Dolfino said. 
 Banks release only global redundancy figures, so it is difficult to quantify how many Wall Street positions have moved elsewhere, and New York City figures on finance employment lag behind the companies' announcements. 
 Yet as options narrow, even some laid-off workers who were not offered a transfer are beginning to take calls from financial companies with operations abroad, recruiters say. ''I've spoken to people who three or four years ago literally refused to relocate. Now they're open to moving,'' said Jeanne Branthover, head of the global financial services practice at Boyden Worldwide, a recruiting firm. ''They do not see growth or change in this market in the near future.''
 Recent activity at Ms. Branthover's company is telling. Boyden's revenue from placing people in finance jobs was about flat, globally, in the first quarter. But its placement revenue in Russia was up 73 percent, and in China and Dubai, they were each up more than 300 percent. In New York, where the market is nearly frozen, revenue from finance job placements was down 24 percent.
 JPMorgan Chase, which acquired Bear Stearns when it nearly collapsed in March, is continuing to hire overseas even as it whittles its New York base. For example, the commodities trading group has hired 126 people in the last year, of which 85 are based abroad in markets like Singapore and Hong Kong. 
 ''In the past everything was done out of New York, and that was the place to be,'' said Nicolas Aguzin, head of investment banking for JPMorgan in Latin America, which has added bankers in Brazil, Mexico and Colombia over the last year. ''But now everyone has decided to go local and to go quite aggressively.''
 The acceleration can be seen among senior employees at Morgan Stanley. In the first six months of 2007, only 10 of Morgan Stanley's managing directors were transferred to countries other than the United States. 
 That figure has more than tripled -- to 33 -- this year, as executives like Stephen Roach relocated to Hong Kong to become chairman of the bank's Asia operations, along with Owen Thomas, who moved there from New York as chief executive. In addition, five senior Morgan executives were sent to Dubai from London. 
 ''People understand that this is important. It's clear that growing our franchises in key emerging markets is an important strategic priority,'' said Charlie Stewart, who moved to Sao Paulo this summer to run investment banking for Morgan Stanley in Latin America. ''It's not like you're being shipped off.''
 On top of the foreign transfers, banks are also hiring locally. In the last six months, Merrill Lynch recruited a team of bankers from Brazil for that office. JPMorgan Chase has hired in the Middle East and Asia. 
 Credit Suisse plans to double its investment banking and private banking staff in India over the next year and moved its global head of financial institutions to Hong Kong from New York this summer. 
 And the longer foreign markets outperform developed economies, managers say, the more permanent the shift in power may become. 
 ''Pools of capital will move to where the industry sees an expansion of opportunities,'' said Edith Cooper, head of human management at Goldman Sachs. 
 Ms. Cooper travels regularly to Goldman's foreign offices, and she says the anxiety felt by international employees matches the fear in New York. But she says she reassures them that Goldman is committed to its global growth strategy. In the last few months, dozens of Goldman bankers have been offered the option to move abroad, under varying degrees of pressure. 
 Recent high-profile transfers at Goldman include Ravi Sinha, an investment banker who moved to Hong Kong from New York to become the co-head of investment banking for much of Asia; Alasdair Warren, a banker who moved to Dubai from London as the head of financing for the Middle East and Africa; and Valentino Carlotti, who moved to Sao Paulo from New York to become president of Goldman Sachs's bank in Brazil. 
 ''I don't know whether it's as much, 'There's not enough to do here, so we'll go somewhere else,' '' Ms. Cooper said. ''Rather it's more of a reflection of our clients and the growing businesses in China, India and Middle East.''
 The shift is also changing the concept of being an expatriate employee from a temporary jaunt to one that might be more permanent, Ms. Cooper said. 
 Sheila Patel, Goldman's head of equities for Southeast Asia, moved to Singapore from New York in May, even though her division was not stagnating. 
 ''Is there a set time that I expect to be in Asia?'' Ms. Patel said. ''Not really. I could see spending my whole career here.''
 Ms. Patel's move around the world in a sense reverses a decision her father made in the 1960s to move from India to the United States, where he married an Irish-American. 
 ''Every generation searches out its opportunity set and looks for growth,'' Ms. Patel said. ''Nobody thinks of somebody moving to New York as an expatriate. Somehow in other global cities, there's been this concept.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (88%); RELOCATIONS (79%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (72%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (72%); ASIA (72%); MIDDLE EAST (72%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008



290 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 516 words

 BODY:
REVEALING INDICTMENTS The indictments last week of 11 people accused of stealing credit card numbers from millions of Americans provide a detailed picture of how the Internet is enabling new kinds of financial crimes on an international scale. 
 WHOLE FOODS SAYS IT ERRED Whole Foods said it incorrectly handled meat shipments that led to a recall of potentially tainted ground beef on Friday and the company promised to be more diligent about checking products before they are allowed in its stores. [C1.] 
 NOT REALLY A RECOVERY Oil prices are declining and the dollar is rising but it is unlikely to be a sign that a financial recovery is imminent. Many analysts say the sudden reversals may stem from the expectation that the global economy will suffer even more as other countries fare worse than the United States. [C1.]
 PINK SLIP ALTERNATIVE Some Wall Street banks are giving highly valued employees a choice of moving abroad rather than leaving the company as the banks move workers to influential financial hubs in Asia, the Middle East and elsewhere. [C1.] 
 OUTSOURCING RESEARCH Wall Street banks are outsourcing data-intensive jobs like writing research reports to cities in India, where the work costs less than in New York, London and Hong Kong. [C1.]
 A KING OF I.P.O.'S RETURNSFrank P. Quattrone, the Silicon Valley banker responsible for more initial public offerings than just about anyone, on the problems with the separation of research and investment banking on Wall Street. DealBook: Andrew Ross Sorkin. [C1.] 
 NEW GRAPHICS CARDAdvanced Micro Devices is expected to release a high-speed computer graphics card on Tuesday that it says will justify its acquisition of the graphics specialist ATI Technologies in 2006. [C3.]
 PILOTS AGREE ON CONTRACT Pilots at Delta and Northwest have approved a collective bargaining agreement that is central to their successful merger. [C2.]
 The union representing pilots at United Airlines has urged the chief executive, Glenn F. Tilton, to resign. [C2.] 
 SPECIAL-NEEDS TRAVELERS Business travel for the parent of a child with special needs can cause difficulty. Parents must arrange care for children with disabilities like autism and mental retardation while they are on the road. [C6.] 
 THE THUNDERSTORM EFFECT When bad weather arrives and planes sit on tarmacs for long periods of time, passengers fume. Yet, the culprit is not the storm. On the Road: Joe Sharkey. [C6.] 
 MEDAL WINNERS TO ENDORSERS Nadia Comaneci, below, who earned a gold medal as a Romanian teenager with the first perfect score in Olympic gymnastic competition in 1976, is among a group of former Olympians performing a variety of product endorsements during the Summer Olympics. Advertising. [C3.]
 CONTRACTS ARE QUESTIONED Federal auditors have concluded that Blackwater Worldwide may have improperly received more than $100 million in contracts designated for small businesses. [C5.] 
 BIG TRADE SURPLUS FOR CHINA China's trade surplus grew in July to its highest level in eight months, increasing its trade gaps with the United States and Europe. [C4.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO CHART: Oil Prices per barrel 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); OLYMPICS (89%); AIRLINES (88%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (86%); DISABLED PERSONS (85%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (76%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (73%); COMPUTER GRAPHICS (73%); MENTAL RETARDATION (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (68%); INVESTMENT BANKING (68%); AUTISM (66%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (65%); APPROVALS (64%); SPORTS AWARDS (63%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (63%); PRODUCT ENDORSEMENTS (63%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (60%); GYMNASTICS (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: ACADEMI LLC (81%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (81%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561612 SECURITY GUARDS & PATROL SERVICES (81%); NAICS561611 INVESTIGATION SERVICES (81%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (81%)

PERSON: GLENN TILTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008



291 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: Calling Shots, Putin Salves Old Wounds

BYLINE: By ELLEN BARRY; C. J. Chivers contributed reporting.

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
Vladimir V. Putin, who came to office brooding over the wounds of a humiliated Russia, this week offered proof of its resurgence. So far, the West has been unable to check his thrust into Georgia. He is making decisions that could redraw the map of the Caucasus in Russia's favor -- or destroy relationships with Western powers that Russia once sought as strategic partners. 
 If there were any doubts, the last week has confirmed that Mr. Putin, who became prime minister this spring after eight years as president, is running Russia, not his successor, President Dmitri A. Medvedev. And Mr. Putin is at last able to find relief from the insults that Russia endured after the breakup of the Soviet Union. 
 ''Georgia, in a way, is suffering for all that happened to Russia in the last 20 years,'' said Alexander Rahr, a leading German foreign-policy scholar and a biographer of Mr. Putin's. 
 With Russian troops poised on two fronts in Georgia, speculation abounds on what Mr. Putin really wants to do. He faces a range of options.
 Russia could settle for annexing the enclaves of Abkhazia and South Ossetia -- something its forces have largely accomplished. Kremlin authorities have also spoken of bringing Mikheil Saakashvili, Georgia's president, to a war crimes tribunal for what they say were attacks on civilians in Tskhinvali last week. 
 A further push might permanently disable the Georgian military. The most extreme option would be occupying Georgia, a country with a population of 4.4 million and a centuries-old distrust of Russia, where Western nations have long planned to run an important oil pipeline. 
 But while the West may see an aggressive Russia, Mr. Putin feels embattled and encircled, said Sergei Markov, the director of Moscow's Institute for Political Studies, who has close relationships with officials in the Kremlin.
 ''Russia is in an extremely dangerous situation,'' trapped between the obligation to protect Russian citizens and the risk of escalating into ''a new cold war'' with the United States, Dr. Markov said.
 ''Washington and the administration are playing an extremely dirty game,'' he said. ''They will show Putin as an occupier even if Putin is doing nothing.'' 
 Mr. Putin and his surrogates have forcefully made the case that Russia does not plan to occupy Georgia but is acting only to defend its citizens. 
 In recent days, Mr. Putin has appeared on television with his sleeves rolled up, mingling with refugees on the border with South Ossetia -- the very picture of a man of action. 
 By contrast, Mr. Medvedev is shown sitting at his desk in Moscow, giving ceremonial orders to the minister of defense. 
 ''He is playing the game which is designed by Putin,'' Mr. Rahr, who serves on the German Council on Foreign Relations, said of the new president.
 Yulia L. Latynina, a frequent critic of Mr. Putin's government, noted with amusement that on the eve of the conflict in Georgia, when President Bush and Mr. Putin were deep in conversation in Beijing at the start of the Olympics, Mr. Medvedev was taking a cruise on the Volga River. 
 ''Now he can cruise the Volga for all the remaining years, or can go right to the Bahamas,'' she wrote in Daily Magazine, a Russian Web site. ''I must admit that for the first time in my life I felt admiration for the skill with which Vladimir Putin maintains his power.''
 In 2000, Mr. Putin was elected president of a shaken, uncertain country. Selling off state companies to private investors had led to immense flight of capital. The economy was in shambles. But the bitterest pill of all was NATO's expansion into Russia's former sphere of influence. 
 Nothing highlighted this loss of face as much as Kosovo, where NATO helped an ethnic Albanian population wrest independence from Serbia. Russia has few allies closer than Serbia, and the 78-day American-led bombing campaign in 1999 seemed to drive home the message that a once-great power was impotent. 
 Mr. Putin was determined to change that. First, he reasserted state control over Russia's natural resources companies, installing loyalists to run businesses like Yukos and punishing oligarchs who challenged his power. 
 With Russia then reshaped as a petro-state, flush with money from oil and natural gas, Mr. Putin has sent blunt messages to its neighbors: The flow of cheap energy can be turned off as well as on. Two years ago, after what was called the Orange Revolution swept West-friendly leaders to power in Ukraine, Russia briefly cut off the country's flow of natural gas, sending waves of anxiety across Europe. 
 Now, with Russia's swift progress in Georgia, Mr. Putin has asserted Russia's might as a military force. Russian troops entered Senaki in western Georgia on Monday, and Moscow acknowledged for the first time that its forces had entered Georgian territory. 
 ''I would say you have a situation in which the Russians have come to the red line,'' said Dmitri Trenin, deputy director of the Carnegie Moscow Center. 
 In describing Mr. Putin, people often use the word ''icy.'' After the lurching presidency of Boris N. Yeltsin, Mr. Putin offered himself as a man in consummate control of his impulses. He does not drink liquor; he skips lunch; his great indulgence is judo. 
 Early in his presidency, he charmed his Western counterparts, coming across as an articulate and cosmopolitan leader. But there were always topics that brought out a different side of him. 
 As Mr. Yeltsin's tough-guy prime minister, he made a stir by threatening Chechen guerrillas with gutter language: ''If we catch them in the toilet, we'll rub them out in the outhouse.'' 
 In 2002, when a French reporter faulted Russia for killing innocent civilians in Chechnya, he suggested that if the reporter were so sympathetic to Muslims, he could arrange to have him circumcised. ''I will recommend to conduct the operation so that nothing on you will grow again,'' he said.
 The prelude to the events in Georgia reveals Mr. Putin as both a careful actor and a visceral one. In the spring, when Western nations lined up to recognize a newly independent Kosovo, Mr. Putin answered by formally recognizing the two breakaway enclaves in Georgia. 
 Over the course of the last decade, the Russian government issued passports to virtually all residents of South Ossetia, a step that would become the justification for moving troops over the Georgian border. And last year, Russia suspended its compliance with the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe, which, among other things, required that it withdraw troops from Georgia and Moldova. 
 But emotions have flared up, sometimes unpredictably. Mr. Putin reserves a particular dislike for Mr. Saakashvili. 
 In April, when Mr. Putin decided to establish legal connections with the governments of the breakaway regions, the Georgian president called him and reminded him that Western leaders had made statements supporting Georgia's position. Mr. Putin responded by telling him -- in very crude terms -- where he could put his statements. 
 ''He has such a visceral attitude toward Saakashvili that that seems to drown out anything else that anyone says to him,'' said a senior American official, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
 It may take time to work out the messages Mr. Putin has sent in the past week, but this one is clear: Russia insists on being seen as a great power. ''The problem is, what kind of great power is emerging?'' said Mr. Trenin, of the Carnegie Center. ''Is this a great power that lives by the conventions of the world as it exists in the 21st century?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin, second from left, Saturday in a visit to a field hospital in Vladikavkaz, Russia, at the bedside of a man wounded in South Ossetia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXEI DRUZHININ/RIA NOVOSTI, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); REFUGEES (70%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); ARMED FORCES (67%); WAR CRIMES (65%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (50%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (50%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (93%); DMITRY MEDVEDEV (78%); MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); GEORGIA (94%); CAUCASIAN STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008



292 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: Analyzing Wall Street's Research

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
Frank P. Quattrone thinks Wall Street research has ''proven to be a disaster, in my humble opinion.''
 You remember Mr. Quattrone, don't you? He's the mustachioed Silicon Valley banker who brought some of the biggest technology initial public offerings to market -- Cisco Systems, Amazon, Netscape, just to name a few. His career was famously derailed by a four-year-long public battle against obstruction of justice charges at the height of the previous market bubble. The charges were ultimately dropped, and he's now back in business.
 He was speaking a couple of weeks ago at the AlwaysOn conference for start-ups at Stanford, a buzzy affair for Palo Alto entrepreneurs looking for money and Sand Hill Road venture capitalists looking to spend it. The panel was titled, ''The Doctor Is In: An Hour of Free Advice From Frank Quattrone.''
 Mr. Quattrone, dressed in his West Coast uniform -- a blue blazer over a polo shirt and a pair of khakis -- was almost finished with his presentation when, in response to a question from the audience, he shared his views about the state of Wall Street research, a topic that was once all the rage but now often goes overlooked. 
 ''I do think the industry should petition to remove the Spitzer initiatives because ultimately they hurt the competitiveness of our country by denying small companies the access to research analysts,'' he said, throwing a proverbial grenade into the auditorium.
 Mr. Quattrone was referring, of course, to the former New York attorney general Eliot Spitzer's landmark settlement in 2002, which forced the separation of investment banking from research. The settlement followed an investigation into whether some Wall Street analysts were providing misleading ratings of the companies they covered to bolster their firms' investment banking business. Henry Blodget of Merrill Lynch and Jack Grubman of Citigroup were barred from the securities industry and others took their licks. (As an aside, Mr. Spitzer was not behind Mr. Quattrone's prosecution.)
 As a result, banks are no longer allowed to pay their analysts from any revenue derived from investment banking, only from trading operations. Beyond that, an investment banker can't even call a research analyst at the same firm without a lawyer chaperoning the conversation.
 At the time, the new rules had a certain undeniable appeal. Because research analysts so depended on investment banking work for their own bonuses -- working on initial public offerings and mergers -- they faced unquestionable conflicts.
 Mr. Spitzer's efforts may have been noble, but five years later it is clear that the effort to eliminate those conflicts created its own set of unintended consequences.
 If Mr. Quattrone had his way, he would turn the clock back entirely. ''I am not denying that there is the potential for conflict -- always has been, always will be. I'm just questioning the best means of managing the conflict,'' he told me after his presentation. ''If the principles of what constitutes ethical and unethical behavior are spelled out clearly, such as disclosing the firms' investment banking relationships and ownership interests in the covered security, as well as not publishing favorable reports on companies in which you do not believe -- and violators are punished -- the conflicts will be managed.''
 It's widely known on Wall Street that because research can no longer count on investment banking revenue, research is expected to pay its own way. Many of the big banks have responded, to put it bluntly, by running their research departments more cheaply, or not running them at all. Prudential Financial, which had a pretty good research arm, decided to shut it down entirely last summer.
 Many of the most talented analysts -- and therefore the most expensive -- have left the business. And the smart up-and-coming ones who saw the handwriting on the wall ran to the ''buy side,'' jumping into hedge funds, venture capital firms and private equity. Some ambitious analysts have tried to go the independent route, but nearly all of them will tell you it has been tough going.
 That has created a two-part dilemma. The first is that the quality of research on Wall Street these days, notwithstanding some great recent calls from the likes of Meredith Whitney of Oppenheimer and Richard Bove, an independent analyst, has deteriorated even further and is coming under greater pressure as more banks begin to outsource research functions.
 It may be true that analysts now put a lot more sell ratings on stocks than they used to, clearly a result of Mr. Spitzer's settlement. But sell ratings are only a small part of the story. Analysts were never supposed to be just stock pickers. Ask any big institutional investor about what makes good research analysts and the answer is rarely the buy, sell or hold ratings. It is the information they can provide, the details they model and understanding the nuance of the executives. Those aspects of research don't always end up in reports, but that's what separates the good analysts from the not-so-good. 
 The second problem -- which is an even bigger one -- is that it is hard to find good research on small companies. All the focus has moved to large companies where the big money is sloshing around. And that makes being a small public company a very difficult task, since nobody's paying any attention to them.
 ''The only way that sell-side analysts now can make money inside of a big firm like that is to become an 'Institutional Investor All-American' research analyst,'' Mr. Quattrone told me, ''which means they have to cover the Microsofts and Googles. Why would they spend any of their time working with these small companies?'' Mr. Quattrone posits that the lack of research has been one reason the initial public offering market for technology companies has had a tough time. 
 Mr. Quattrone compared Wall Street research with journalism. ''Publications have journalists and editorial staff -- kind of like research analysts -- whom the public expects to be unbiased reporters of fact and opinion who report the truth and provide their honest opinion on important matters,'' he said. ''They also have a circulation department and an advertising department -- kind of like institutional salespeople and bankers -- who generate revenue. There is an inherent omnipresent potential conflict of interest between the journalists and the revenue generating departments because the latter produce the revenue that pay the former.''
 Of course, in journalism -- especially at this paper and others -- it is forbidden for anyone in the advertising department to tell a journalist how to write his articles. (Other publications are not so fastidious, he said, writing sensational articles to pump up sales or producing a positive piece to suit an advertiser.) 
 But to take Mr. Quattrone's metaphor one step further, that's what investment bankers were doing before the settlement -- steering analysts to write things that would help land banking deals, often betraying investors and the public in the process. 
 Mr. Quattrone is right that the pendulum has probably swung too far, and in the cool light of day, it might be time to lift some of the restrictions. Analysts should be allowed to talk to their own investment bankers on occasion. Most analysts I talked to for this column said that they missed talking to bankers calling for advice ahead of a meeting, which they said made their research better and helped the banker. They argued that would perhaps make the whole franchise more valuable and give firms the impetus to spend more on research.
 Give Mr. Quattrone credit for raising an important issue and making an articulate case for change. The solution, of course, is more complicated.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Frank P. Quattrone spoke at the AlwaysOn conference. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL CHINN/THE SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (72%); PETITIONS (65%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (64%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WEST USA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008



293 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: Changes Imminent At the Top

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON. 
E-mail: hjaraton@nytimes.com

 BODY:
BEIJING -- The circumstances aren't the same, the timetable is less certain, but there is some tennis-style role-reversal occurring in the developing medal standings at the Summer Games. Change is coming at the top of the world and it breaks down like this:
Here in Beijing, the United States is Roger Federer; China is Rafael Nadal. 
Sooner (here) or later (London 2012), China's determined, steady rise is going to catapult it past the American juggernaut. If you accept the common measure of dominance as gold medals won, as opposed to total medals, another kind of Olympic torch is likely to be passed in the next two weeks, concurrent with Federer's official relinquishing of his four-and-a-half-year hold on No. 1 next Monday.
The United States has been top dog for the last three Summer Games, or since the dissolution of the Soviet and East German sports machines. But China's massive population, booming economy and surging athletic ambitions are the reasons it won't be stopped, and no one knows this better than Peter Ueberroth, chairman of the United States Olympic Committee.
For months leading to these Games, he and his minions have acclaimed the Chinese and prepared the American masses for dethronement, and not just for this one home-field cycle. ''I know the resources and what they intend to do, and I clearly expect them to be the dominant team at the Olympic Games for many, many, many years to come,'' Ueberroth said last week.
He could have said a dominant team, but he said the dominant team.
A many, many, many years run suggests something grander even than Federer's on the men's pro tour. But that is all right, Ueberroth has said, in part because there isn't much he and the U.S.O.C. can do about it. America will still produce its share of breakout Olympians of the Michael Phelps variety. It will continue to be a powerhouse in the pool, on the track and on the basketball court.
And whatever the United States happens to be good at, its rights-holding television network will leverage those events for prime time no matter what part of the day it is in the host city. Americans will have the option of pretending they are still the very best or believing they are winning the only events that matter.
Rationalization or not, there is something to be said for looking in the mirror and recognizing that attitude and expectation must be adjusted to meet the changing tides, the evolving challenge. Federer, often sounding in denial this year while Nadal surged past him by demolishing him at the French Open and breaking his five-year streak and his heart at Wimbledon, should probably embrace America's new-Asian-age thinking as he plans for the future after celebrating his 27th birthday here on Friday.
He insists the gap between him and Nadal is better reflected by the small number of points that separate them in the rankings, not by the wide gulf that has existed between them this year. Traces of irritability creep into his voice when the subject is raised. After defeating the Russian Dmitry Tursunov in his first-round Olympic match, 6-4, 6-2, on Monday (and looking much like his old maestro self in the second set), Federer said of Wimbledon: ''If I'd won a few more points there, we wouldn't be talking this way.''
And if Nadal had won one more point with Federer serving at love-40, 3-all in the third set, the match might have been remembered as a rout and not the greatest of all time.
Nadal's grinding style does not forecast many, many, many years of dominance, but he is five years younger than Federer, just beginning his prime winning period. He is almost untouchable on clay and now he is a champion on grass. Federer has probably reached the point where he needs to adopt a been-there, done-that approach to being No. 1, and focus on targeted goals.
At his news conference Monday, I asked him if that subject had come up during his exhibition tour with Pete Sampras, the Slams record-holder at 14 whom Federer is chasing, with 12.
''We didn't speak a lot about rankings in any way,'' Federer said. ''I just think more about, you know, being at the top for a long time. I mean, at the top doesn't mean No. 1 in the world. It can mean deep into Grand Slams, being in the top five, top 10 for, whatever, 10 years, 15 years, just be up there and having a shot at Grand Slams.
''And I always knew -- I mean, you can't keep your ranking forever. If ever that were to happen, I think you have to, you know, sort of have a different, maybe, approach, see what's the next step. Does it come down to the majors? Do you want to chase it again?''
By ''it,'' Federer meant the No. 1 ranking, adding that he is still in that game, for now. Fair enough. He is still close. He began the year at the threshold of immortality and suddenly a mountain appeared.
Eventually, he will have to accept the reality of Nadal's rise the way Ueberroth has China's. The mountain doesn't go away; it makes you live in its shadow. Occasionally you have to find a way to get around it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (89%); TENNIS (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (77%); BASKETBALL (72%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (55%)

PERSON: ROGER FEDERER (79%); MICHAEL PHELPS (59%); RAFAEL NADAL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2011



294 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: In Midsummer, Spring Training for the Fall Race

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
From watching polls in the presidential race this summer, it would appear that for all the campaign rallies, television advertisements and various attacks mounted by Senators John McCain and Barack Obama, not much has really changed. 
 Mr. Obama continues to lead Mr. McCain by a few percentage points nationally, according to most recent polls. It appears that many Americans are not yet ready to make up their minds -- no surprise there -- or that after the extended primary seasons, they have taken a break and are not paying much attention to what the candidates are doing.
 But the truth is that both campaigns have used the summer to prepare for the fall ahead: patching up weaknesses, testing new lines of attack and laying the foundation for how they want to portray the opponent. Aides to Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama are both well aware of the risks of easing up during this period. (Case in point: Michael S. Dukakis, the 1988 Democratic presidential nominee, who made the mistake of spending his summer touring his home state, Massachusetts.) 
 More than anything else, Mr. McCain has used this period to seek a thematic spine of the campaign he intends to run against Mr. Obama. The recent advertisement portraying Mr. Obama as a frothy celebrity may have originated as a Hail Mary pass intended to draw attention to a campaign that had been overshadowed by Mr. Obama's, um, celebrity. But it is one that McCain aides believe has proved successful. They are planning to use it aggressively through the Republican convention and into the fall. 
 ''The American people are likely not going to want to elect someone to the presidency based on their ability to transform themselves into a celebrity,'' said Steve Schmidt, a senior adviser to Mr. McCain. ''The advertising is effective because it speaks to a truth that people instantly get. It opens the doors to an examination of what exactly are his qualifications to be president of the United States in a time of economic crisis and in a time of a national security crisis.''
 This was inspired by what McCain advisers, and some Democrats, suspect was one mistake Mr. Obama made on his otherwise well-received overseas trip. His appearance at a rally before 200,000 Germans in Berlin led the McCain camp to describe Mr. Obama as presumptuous and provided the scenes for the first so-called celebrity ads. (Expect more of that in future advertisements, highlighted by Mr. Obama's presenting himself as a ''fellow citizen of the world.'') 
 If this kind of attack strikes a chord, then Mr. Obama may find that he gave Republicans a gift, underscoring their message, with his decision to deliver his convention acceptance speech before 76,000 people at a Denver stadium.
 Implicit in this emerging portrait of Mr. Obama is an effort to portray him as alien to many Americans, reinforcing what polls suggest is a reluctance that many have about voting for this newcomer. Hence the references to his years at Harvard and at Hyde Park in Chicago, and a running commentary on what he is doing on his Hawaiian vacation this week, all intended to make him seem elitist or effete. 
 ''Senator Obama appears to get fussy when asked tough questions,'' Brian Rogers, Mr. McCain's campaign spokesman, said in an e-mail message to reporters last week.
 Will all this work? Mr. Obama's advisers argue that public polling data show no evidence that it is taking hold. 
 ''Their intent is obvious, but I don't see any evidence that they are gaining with this,'' said David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's senior strategist. ''The truth is, if you throw out a lot of gratuitous attacks, especially in this 24-hour news environment, you get a lot of attention.''
 Mr. Axelrod said he did not believe that Mr. McCain, of all people, could succeed in painting Mr. Obama as elitist.
 ''Obviously, his strategists met on the portico of the McCain estate in Sedona, or maybe in one of his six other houses, and decided what line of attack they were going to use,'' he said.
 While Mr. McCain has used this summer to figure out a way to go after Mr. Obama, Mr. Obama used it to patch up a hole in his resume with his trip overseas. That effort produced images that even some Republicans said would go a long way toward addressing voter concerns about his foreign policy credentials.
 In playing down the effectiveness of the Republican attacks on Mr. Obama, Mr. Axelrod echoed the way Mr. Schmidt and other McCain advisers had played down the effect of Mr. Obama's trip: pointing to polls as evidence that voters were not impressed. Things that campaigns do now, however, are often done not with an eye to the daily Gallup tracking poll, but rather to set the table for the fall. 
 ''You are laying the foundation for the debate for the fall,'' said Charlie Black, a senior adviser to Mr. McCain. ''Even if people don't pay enough attention to say, 'I'm changing my vote' or 'I'm making up my mind,' they do absorb the information.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Steve Schmidt, McCain adviser (PHOTOGRAPH BY GERALD HERBERT/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 David Axelrod, Obama adviser (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL J. RICHARDSON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (91%); DAVID AXELROD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (75%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (75%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008



295 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Russia Blames the Victim

BYLINE: By SVANTE E. CORNELL. 
Svante E. Cornell is the research director of the Central Asia-Caucasus Institute at Johns Hopkins University's School of Advanced International Studies.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 RUSSIA is portraying its war in Georgia as a legitimate response to Georgia's incursion last week into its breakaway region of South Ossetia. Many in the West, while condemning the disproportionate nature of Russia's response, are also critical of Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili for his attempts to bring South Ossetia back under Georgian rule, and of the United States for supposedly encouraging Mr. Saakashvili's risk-taking by pushing NATO membership for Georgia. 
 But the truth is that for the past several months, Russia, not Georgia, has been stoking tensions in South Ossetia and another of Georgia's breakaway areas, Abkhazia. After NATO held a summit in Bucharest, Romania, in April -- at which Georgia and Ukraine received positive signs of potential membership -- then-President Vladimir Putin of Russia signed a decree effectively treating Abkhazia and South Ossetia as parts of the Russian Federation. This was a direct violation of Georgia's territorial integrity. 
 It came after years of growing Russian efforts to assert control over these regions, for example, by distributing Russian passports to citizens and arranging the appointment of Russians to the territories' governments. Mr. Putin, who is now Russia's prime minister, oversaw a build-up of Russian ''peacekeeping'' forces in Abkhazia, which was clearly intended to provoke Georgia into a military response. 
 Yet Georgia showed restraint -- in large part because Mr. Saakashvili understood that military adventurism would harm his NATO prospects. Moscow, in turn, transferred its efforts to South Ossetia, where pro-Russian rebels carried out attacks on Georgian forces and villages, finally provoking the response that Moscow had sought as a pretext to intervene.
 Now Moscow has sent out the Black Sea fleet to Georgia's coast and broadened the war into Abkhazia and Georgia proper, showing that Moscow's war is not just about South Ossetia. In any case, Moscow's own treatment of separatism -- killing tens of thousands of Chechens over the past decade -- says volumes about its claims that it is just trying to protect a minority population.
 This war is about making an example in Georgia, about the consequences post-Soviet countries will suffer for standing up to Moscow, conducting democratic reforms and seeking military and economic ties with the West. No Eurasian country has come so far as Georgia in recent years in terms of democratization and reform. Georgia has the third-largest contingent of forces in Iraq, and before this crisis it had pledged to send forces to Afghanistan.
 If Georgia is allowed to fall, governments across Eurasia will certainly take note, especially those -- such as Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan and Ukraine -- that have built ties with the West and sought closer integration in European institutions, drawing Moscow's ire.
 Should we allow Russia to occupy Georgia or even just depose the Saakashvili government, the implications for America's standing in Eurasia would be dire. We would risk losing the support of the post-Soviet states of Central Asia that are cooperating with the American mission in Afghanistan, along with hopes of westward exports of more Central Asian energy.
 Many who might agree with this analysis nonetheless shrug their shoulders over solutions. Indeed, we have no real military options against Russia. But we can put together a meaningful comprehensive reaction, attaching real costs to Russia for its policies.
 America must hit where it hurts: Russia's international prestige, an obsession of Mr. Putin's. To begin with, we must do everything possible to see Russia's membership in the Group of 8 industrialized nations be suspended (something the Republican presidential hopeful John McCain called for even before this crisis). 
 Once the fighting is over, America must step up its campaign for NATO membership for Georgia and Ukraine. Should European countries reject the idea, America could designate them ''major non-NATO allies,'' along the lines of Israel and Pakistan. This would involve more American military trainers in Georgia, intelligence-sharing, joint exercises and other steps, if not a full pledge by Washington to defend the country in case of attack. 
 Finally, in a measure of fitting symbolism, America must note that Russia started this war on the opening day of the Olympics, while it plans to hold its own Winter Olympics only a dozen miles from the victim of its aggression. America should seriously consider announcing a boycott of the 2014 Sochi Olympics. We owe our Georgian allies nothing less.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATT ROTA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%)

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (89%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%) GEORGIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); ROMANIA (92%); UKRAINE (90%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPE (79%); AZERBAIJAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008



296 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Russia's War of Ambition

 BODY:
No one is blameless in the dangerous game that has erupted into deadly war in the Caucasus. 
 Georgia's president, Mikheil Saakashvili, foolishly and tragically baited the Russians -- or even more foolishly fell into Moscow's trap -- when he sent his army into the separatist enclave of South Ossetia last week. The Bush administration has alternately egged on Mr. Saakashvili (although apparently not this time) and looked the other way as the Kremlin has bullied and blackmailed its neighbors and its own people. 
 There is no imaginable excuse for Russia's invasion of Georgia. After pounding both civilian and military targets with strategic bombers and missiles, Russian armored vehicles rolled into Georgia on Monday, raising fears of an all-out assault on the capital and Mr. Saakashvili's democratically elected government. 
 Moscow claims it is merely defending the rights of ethnic minorities in South Ossetia and Abkhazia, which have been trying to break from Georgia since the early 1990s. But its ambitions go far beyond that. 
 Prime Minister Vladimir Putin (who has shouldered aside Russia's new president, Dmitri Medvedev, to run the war) appears determined to reimpose by force and intimidation as much of the old Soviet sphere of influence as he can get away with. 
 Mr. Saakashvili -- with his pro-Western ambitions and desire to join NATO -- has particularly drawn Mr. Putin's ire. But the assault on Georgia is also clearly intended to bully Ukraine into dropping its NATO bid and frighten any other neighbor or former satellite that might balk at following Moscow's line.
 The United States and its European allies must tell Mr. Putin in the clearest possible terms that such aggression will not be tolerated. And that there will be no redivision of Europe. 
 Given Russia's oil wealth and nuclear arsenal, the West's leverage is limited, but not inconsequential. Russia still wants respect, economic deals and a seat at the table, including membership in the World Trade Organization and a new political and economic cooperation deal with the European Union. Moscow is also eager to complete a civilian nuclear cooperation deal with the United States that could be worth billions. 
 There can be no business as usual until Russian troops are out of Georgia, fighting has ended and all sides have agreed on a plan for calming the tensions in South Ossetia and Abkhazia. At a minimum, that means international mediation, more autonomy for both regions and the stationing of truly neutral international peacekeepers -- not Russian troops.
 Mr. Saakashvili will have to abandon his ambitions to reassert control over the two regions. Because of his miscalculation, his army has been routed and his country badly damaged. 
 The United States and Europe also need to take a hard look at their relationship with Russia going forward. Neither has protested loudly or persuasively enough as Mr. Putin has used Russia's oil and gas wealth to blackmail its neighbors, throttled Russia's free press and harassed and imprisoned opponents. 
 The Bush administration has made Mr. Putin's job even easier, feeding nationalist resentments with its relentless drive for missile defense. The Europeans, who are far too dependent on Russian gas supplies, have deluded themselves into believing that they alone will be safe from Moscow's bullying. 
 The West wants and needs Russia as a full responsible partner. For that, Russia needs to behave responsibly. And the United States and Europe must make clear that anything less is unacceptable. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); SOUTH OSSETIAN CONFLICT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); PEACEKEEPING (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); ETHNIC GROUPS (53%); ETHNICITY (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (91%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%); DMITRY MEDVEDEV (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); GEORGIA (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CAUCASIAN STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UKRAINE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008



297 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Paterson Seeks Cuts Of $1 Billion

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson presented a plan on Monday to trim $1 billion from the state's budget this year by cutting spending on Medicaid assistance, higher education and pork-barrel projects.
 Coming less than three months before the general election, the plan appears designed to give state legislators some degree of political cover by proposing more than twice the amount of budget cuts Mr. Paterson had said were necessary. 
 But it also places them in the position of having to choose between paying for prized government programs or popular -- but often inessential -- projects in their districts. 
 Speaking to reporters on Monday, Mr. Paterson cast his proposal as a pre-emptive strike to limit damage to the increasingly fragile New York economy. He said it was now up to the Legislature to prevent the situation from worsening.
 ''This is how you get out of fiscal woes,'' Mr. Paterson said during a conference call with the reporters. ''I'm confident that the Legislature will make those tough decisions, and though there will be some pain, we will be further on the road to prosperity than other states that waited too long.''
 Mr. Paterson's plan -- which would cut just under 1 percent from the current budget -- was greeted with skepticism by members of the Democratic-controlled Assembly and Republican-led Senate, suggesting that the governor and legislative leaders have some distance between them ahead of a special legislative session scheduled for next week.
 ''I'm not saying it wouldn't be necessary to do some adjustments, but these are utterly draconian cuts,'' said James F. Brennan, a Democratic assemblyman who represents Brooklyn. ''This situation is manageable. We've addressed large deficits in the past, way larger.''
 Dean G. Skelos of Long Island, a Republican and the majority leader of the Senate, said in a statement shortly after Mr. Paterson spoke about the plan that he was wary of making the kinds of cuts the governor had laid out.
 ''It's important that the governor and Legislature not take any actions that would force local governments to raise their local taxes to make up for a shortfall from Albany,'' Mr. Skelos said. ''We are concerned that reducing local government assistance funding may have such an effect.''
 Mr. Paterson's plan relies on rolling back $1.04 billion of the planned budget increase that would go to locally administered programs -- everything from money that hospitals are given to provide care to the poor through Medicaid to money for the City University of New York.
 All told, the state's budget, including state and federal funds, would be $120.2 billion for the current fiscal year, which began on April 1. At that level, the budget would still be 3.9 percent bigger than last fiscal year's. But that is slower than the inflation rate, which was 4.2 percent during the first half of 2008, meaning that Mr. Paterson is effectively proposing a slight cut.
 Many programs, like school financing, would not be cut this year. Mr. Paterson exempted other locally administered programs like special education and youth detention from the cuts as well. 
 The biggest reduction would come from a $506 million cut in the increase for Medicaid spending. Under the governor's proposal, Medicaid spending growth this year would fall to 1.7 percent from the currently budgeted increase of 4 percent. 
 Mr. Paterson also proposed saving $51 million by decreasing aid to the City University of New York. Member items, an Albany euphemism for pork projects, would be cut in half this year to $100 million.
 In an election year, some legislators could find those cuts especially stinging. 
 ''It puts us in an incredibly tough spot right before primaries, right before the general election,'' said Micah Z. Kellner, a Democratic assemblyman who represents the Upper East Side of Manhattan. ''It's the hardest thing in the world to say, 'Sorry, I promised you $10,000 for your playroom at your kindergarten center, but I don't have that $10,000 to give you anymore.' ''
 Legislators were not the only ones expressing concern about Mr. Paterson's plan on Monday. By proposing a $500 million reduction in the Medicaid budget, Mr. Paterson is setting himself up for a confrontation with the state's powerful hospital lobby and health care unions.
 Kenneth E. Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, said the cuts -- which would affect funds for hospitals, nursing homes, prescription drugs and home health care -- were possibly ''the single most damaging budget proposal I've seen in my career.'' 
 Mr. Raske added: ''We're asking the Legislature to reject these cuts and not bury their heads in the sand. We're getting crushed here.''
 Some outside budget analysts noted the lack of any initiatives in Mr. Paterson's proposal that would raise money, like new fees or tax increases, which they said could be a calculated political move.
 ''He's giving them a menu,'' said Carol Kellermann, president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a nonprofit civic organization. ''I think he's trying to put the ball into their court.''
 So far, Mr. Paterson has resisted an effort by Assembly Democrats to raise income taxes on the New Yorkers who earn more than $1 million a year. On Monday, Mr. Paterson repeated his objections to a tax increase, but he did say that he would consider it as a last resort. 
 ''There is no way that we would eliminate any possibilities,'' he said, adding, ''If it gets much worse, we will have to consider taxes.''
 Any plan to raise taxes would face strong opposition in the Senate. John McArdle, a spokesman for Mr. Skelos, said: ''Any tax increase of any sort is the wrong way to go, and we will oppose it. Senator Skelos is flat out opposed.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); BUDGETS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); MEDICAID (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (53%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008



298 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Most in City Now Graduate In Four Years

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA; Robert Gebeloff contributed reporting.

 BODY:
For the first time, more than half of New York City's high school students are graduating on time, according to 2007 graduation figures released on Monday by the State Education Department.
 The figures showed that the rate of students graduating in four years had risen slightly for the fifth year in a row, to 52.2 percent. But the city rate continued to lag behind the statewide rate, which increased to 68.6 percent in 2007 from 67.2 percent in the previous year. 
 For the first time, the state also released a set of numbers that included students who graduated in August in the four-year graduation rate, something New York City education officials had long pressed for. By that measure, 55.8 percent of the city's high school seniors graduated in four years. 
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg seized on the statistics as evidence of the success of his reforms since he took control of the public schools in 2002.
 The State Legislature will vote next year whether to renew mayoral control.
 ''When we won control, graduation rates had been stagnant for more than a decade,'' Mr. Bloomberg said at a news conference at the Tweed Courthouse, the City Education Department's headquarters. ''There is still enormous room for improvement, but it is important to give credit to those who deserve it.'' 
 In past years, city and state officials released separate graduation numbers, with the city including students who had earned special education diplomas and General Equivalency Diplomas as well as August graduates. 
 The state education commissioner, Richard P. Mills, pronounced the new figures a clear indicator of progress and said the state was doing a better job of tracking the success of individual students with its new $39.4 million data system. 
 Mayor Bloomberg also hailed the city's declining dropout rate, which was 14.7 percent in 2007, down from 18 percent in 2005.
 But that drop was driven in large part by changes in the number of students who transfer in and out of the city. In the class of 2005, for example, an unusually high number of students were enrolled for less than five months, which drove up the dropout rate. In 2007, the number of transient students was cut in half, to roughly 5,000 students.
 Among students who did not move in or out of the city, the dropout rate has been largely stagnant, falling to 15.9 percent in 2007 from 16.3 percent in the two previous years. 
 Although Mr. Mills detailed several student groups that needed special attention, he said the new numbers were encouraging. ''The bottom line is graduation rates are improving,'' he said. ''They are improving slowly, and they need to improve more.'' 
 Mr. Mills said the August graduation rates showed that many school systems were making ''very effective use of the summer months,'' a sentiment echoed by Mayor Bloomberg and his schools chancellor, Joel I. Klein. 
 The state also praised the city for increasing the number of students who graduate in five and six years. Mr. Mills said he appreciated principals who acknowledge that some students lack basic skills when they arrive in high school, and who tell them that it may take them five or six years to graduate.
 ''What this does is project a message of hope and determination to the youngsters and helps them know they are going to make it,'' Mr. Mills said.
 The city has been placing increasing emphasis on students who take fifth and sixth years to complete high school, creating special transfer schools and night programs to allow them to catch up.
 Of the city students who began high school in 2001, 58.5 percent had earned their diplomas in six years or less. Among those who started in 2002, 59.5 percent had graduated by 2007.
 On Monday, Mr. Bloomberg said such students were often more impressive than four-year graduates, because they often had to work even harder. ''That they didn't do it in four years to me is immaterial,'' the mayor said. But he added that for those who simply gave up and dropped out, it would be ''very hard to get them back.''
 Mr. Mills said he was concerned that the graduation rate for students learning English was actually going down statewide, to 25 percent in 2007 from 27 percent the year before. The decline particularly stood out in a year of modest improvements in nearly every ethnic, economic and geographic group.
 In New York City, 24 percent of students learning English graduated in 2007, compared with 20 percent in 2006 and 27 percent in 2005. 
 ''The later you join the school system, the more difficult the situation is,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''If you have a kid who joins the school in the 10th grade, particularly if you go home and don't learn English, it is going to be very hard to learn.''
 Mr. Klein also pointed out that while the gap was narrowing, the higher four-year graduation rate among white and Asian students compared with black and Hispanic students was still alarming. In 2007, 68.8 percent of white and Asian students graduated within four years, compared with 47.2 percent of black students and 43.0 percent of Hispanic students.
 According to the city's traditional calculation, which includes special education diplomas, G.E.D.'s and August graduations, the class of 2007 had a graduation rate of 62 percent, up from 51 percent in 2002 and 48 percent in 1997.
 Some teachers and critics of the city's Education Department have said that principals are raising their schools' graduation rates by allowing students who are missing credits to catch up through a process called credit recovery -- giving them independent study projects to earn credits rather than having them retake a class or attend summer school.
 Mr. Mills said on Monday that he had recently met with Mr. Klein to review the practice and expected to meet with him again next month. Mr. Mills also said that the state exams that students are required to pass in order to earn a diploma also ensure that all students are held to high standards.
 Chancellor Klein, for his part, said later on Monday, ''You don't do anybody any good by not giving them a rigorous program.'' 

GRAPHIC: CHART: GRADUATING ON TIME: Graduation rates are improving in the city, but still lag behind the rest of the state. (Source: N.Y.S. Department of Education) (pg.B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); GRADUATION RATES (90%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (88%); MAYORS (88%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (51%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008



299 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Backs Plan For Auctions At Airports

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
A Bush administration plan to auction landing slots at New York airports has picked up a prominent supporter in Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. And the mayor has also proposed discouraging flights from small communities, the opposite of the goal of the Port Authority, which runs the airports. 
 Mr. Bloomberg's support came as the Air Transport Association, the trade group of the major airlines, filed suit against the auction plan on Monday in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. The suit argues that the Transportation Department does not have the authority to conduct the auction, and that Congress has forbidden the imposition of additional user fees. The auction, it argues, amounts to a user fee.
 The Transportation Department argued that now that caps on operations at the airports were in place, a fair way to distribute the available slots would be to give them to the airlines that showed they valued them most highly by paying for them. As a test, it was seeking to auction two slots at Newark Liberty International Airport that were earmarked for an airline that went bankrupt.
 Mr. Bloomberg's suggestion to discourage small planes runs contrary to the position of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. In June, the authority's aviation director told Congress that if small planes were discouraged, cities like Des Moines, Ithaca, N.Y., and Knoxville, Tenn., would be cut off from New York. 
 The airlines said that the only way they could fill big planes flying to places like London and Rome was by bringing passengers in on small planes. 
 ''You're not going fly A320s into Ithaca,'' said David Castelveter, a spokesman for the Air Transport Association, referring to an airliner that can seat 180.
 But Mr. Bloomberg, in a letter sent on Friday to the secretary of transportation and the executive director of the Port Authority, said, ''The largest culprit of delays today is the overscheduling of small planes by the airlines.'' He complained that ''feeder routes'' from nearby regional airports were clogging the runways. 
 The letter recited a now-familiar lament that the air traffic system must be improved, but took a decidedly independent cut at what short-term measures could be used to alleviate congestion, which all parties agreed was costing the local economy. 
 Flight caps, recently imposed by the Federal Aviation Administration at all three of the region's big airports, do not solve the congestion problem and hurt the New York economy, Mr. Bloomberg said, and big planes have environmental advantages over small ones. He called for a ''limited pilot program'' to try out more auctions. 
 At the Transportation Department, D. J. Gribbin, the general counsel, said that a rule at LaGuardia Airport limiting most arrivals and departures to cities within 1,500 miles would guarantee access for small communities. Service from small communities would be maintained if it was profitable enough for the airline to buy a slot, he said. 
 The Port Authority declined to comment on the mayor's letter. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); AIRLINES (91%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); AIRPORT OPERATION (78%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); LAWYERS (73%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (73%); LITIGATION (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); APPEALS COURTS (56%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (68%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (68%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (68%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (54%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008



300 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE PROSPECTS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: Indiana Senator Offers Risks and Rewards for Obama as Running Mate

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE; David M. Herszenhorn contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As the Senate debate on the use of force against Iraq neared its climax in October 2002, Senator John McCain turned on the floor to Senator Evan Bayh to ask what had led him to take such ''a visible, as well as important'' role in seeking Congressional consent for military action. 
 Mr. Bayh, a cautious Indiana Democrat, acknowledged it had not been an easy decision.
''There is reluctance in my heart, as I know there is in the other senators, to contemplate the use of force,'' Mr. Bayh said, adding that he concluded ''we were simply left with no other credible alternative to protect the safety and well-being of the American people.'' 
 Six years later, Mr. Bayh is one of the leading candidates to be the running mate of the presumed Democratic presidential nominee, Senator Barack Obama, associates of Mr. Obama say. But Mr. Bayh's advocacy for the war could complicate his prospects for getting on the ticket. 
 Mr. Bayh, 52, is a telegenic moderate Democrat, a father of twins entering their teens, an experienced politician who in 2006 briefly flirted with a presidential run before endorsing Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. The son of a senator, Mr. Bayh was a popular two-term governor who could make Indiana, typically rock-solid Republican in presidential contests, a competitive state and appeal to blue-collar Democrats who have been slow to embrace Mr. Obama.
 Mr. Bayh's support of authorizing force in Iraq stands in sharp contrast to Mr. Obama's oft-stated view that he showed the good judgment to oppose the conflict from the start. After his vote, Mr. Bayh in early 2003 joined Mr. McCain as an honorary co-chairman of the Committee for the Liberation of Iraq, which made regime change in Iraq its central cause. 
 ''He was not only wrong, he was aggressively wrong,'' said Tom Andrews, national director of the Win Without War coalition, referring to Mr. Bayh. ''In my view, he would contradict if not undermine the Obama message of change, turning a new page on foreign policy and national security.''
 Mr. Bayh was unavailable for an interview, but his spokesman, Eric Kleiman, contrasted his evolution on the war with the position of Mr. McCain, saying that Mr. McCain has said he would cast the same vote again. ''Senator Bayh has shown the judgment that we need to admit that mistakes were made and we need to learn from them,'' Mr. Kleiman said. 
 Eli Pariser, the executive director of the antiwar group MoveOn.org, said that Mr. Obama had a variety of factors to weigh in making a choice and that he was not ready to say that Mr. Bayh should be ruled out because of his views at the start of the war.
 ''We are not going to get into which particular person is good or bad,'' Mr. Pariser said. ''We hope that emphasizing Senator Obama's judgment against the war is something they consider in making their pick.''
 Mr. Bayh's political allies say he now concedes his vote on the war was a mistake, the product of personal assurances from George J. Tenet, the central intelligence director, to Mr. Bayh, a member of the Intelligence and Armed Services Committees, that Iraq possessed unconventional weapons. 
 Mr. Bayh's record points up the risks and rewards for Mr. Obama of adding a running mate from a Republican-leaning state, someone whose votes and credentials could compensate for perceived weaknesses of Mr. Obama but potentially alienate progressive Democrats crucial to Mr. Obama's success. 
 But admirers, some of whom are actively promoting Mr. Bayh as a No. 2, say he could complement Mr. Obama in areas like executive experience and economic expertise, while bolstering the image of a generational change. And his earlier allegiance to Mrs. Clinton could help soothe disgruntled Clinton supporters. 
 Mr. Bayh and Mr. Obama made a joint campaign swing in Indiana last week that would have provided an opportunity for the Obama campaign to gauge the personal and political chemistry between the two men, who have worked together in the Senate on an initiative to promote responsible fatherhood -- a signature issue for both.
 ''Evan has a lot of experience,'' said Lee H. Hamilton, a former House member from Indiana and a respected Democratic elder. ''He has got Hollywood good looks, and he speaks well. He would be very loyal.'' 
 Mr. Bayh, whose father, Birch, was a liberal Democratic senator and presidential candidate in 1976, has compiled a moderate-to-conservative record both as governor of Indiana from 1988 to 1996 and as senator since 1999. He was first elected to state office in 1986 at age 30, as Indiana secretary of state.
 In the past few years, Mr. Bayh has been a more reliably Democratic vote on social policy, and he opposed President Bush's nominees to the Supreme Court. But this spring, he frustrated Democratic leaders by holding out against new spending in the federal budget. But that reflects his fiscal conservatism; in Indiana, his record on cutting taxes as governor and leaving office with a $1.6 billion surplus is a hallmark.
 One conventional assessment of Mr. Bayh is that he is a bland, unexciting politician who would not energize a national ticket. His 1996 keynote speech to the Democratic National Convention in Chicago was panned. In a recent column, Dick Morris, a former consultant to President Bill Clinton, described Mr. Bayh as a ''cream puff'' for failing to go on the attack in that speech, a decision Mr. Bayh later described in a book, saying his view was that voters were tired of negative politics.
 In the Senate, Mr. Bayh is known to slip away to attend school events for his children, and he rarely gives floor speeches. Aides say he considers committee work to be the best venue for real accomplishment in Congress. Through his membership on the Banking Committee, Mr. Bayh this summer was able to add to the newly enacted housing bill a provision that allows taxpayers who do not itemize to take a deduction for property taxes -- a provision important back home where property tax increases have taken a toll.
 Despite his strong support for authorizing force in Iraq, Mr. Bayh showed his disillusionment with the conduct of the conflict in December 2004 by calling for the resignation of Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld. He voted against the confirmation of Condoleezza Rice as secretary of state in 2005, citing her role as an architect of the Iraq war.
 He pushed for sending more heavily armored vehicles to Iraq, which turned out to be a benefit for military personnel and Indiana companies that received contracts to produce the equipment. And he has pushed for more focus on the care and treatment of Iraq war veterans suffering from traumatic brain injuries caused by the improvised explosive devices used against them in the conflict. 
 It is not unusual for Indianans to be considered for vice president, and five have served in that capacity, with Senator Dan Quayle the most recent during the presidency of the first George Bush. Mr. Bayh himself was considered potential running-mate material by the last two Democratic presidential contenders -- Al Gore and Senator John Kerry, and some Democrats say now may be his time.
 ''The antiwar people cannot define the Democratic Party,'' said Al From, a founder of the centrist Democratic Leadership Council, of which Mr. Bayh was chairman for four years. ''I think Evan's real strength is you get someone on the ticket who has a record of being strong on national security, and that is a very important quality to have.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Evan Bayh of Indiana introduced the presumed Democratic presidential nominee on July 16 at an event at Purdue University in West Lafayette, Ind. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAE C. HONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); GOVERNORS (68%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (67%); EXECUTIVES (61%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PURDUE UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: EVAN BAYH (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2008



301 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deficit Narrows Amid Increase in Exports

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
The economy is chugging along on the strength of foreign demand, even as many Americans cut back on basic purchases outside of food and fuel. 
 That was the message in Tuesday's report on the trade deficit, which unexpectedly narrowed in June despite record prices for oil and energy imports. 
 Demand for exports increased 4 percent -- the biggest monthly gain in four and a half years -- to the highest level ever. Foreign customers snapped up $164.4 billion in American-made automobiles, electronics, food and industrial supplies, among other products, the Commerce Department said. 
 The surge in exports was enough to narrow the trade deficit by 4.1 percent, to $56.8 billion, a much smaller figure than economists had expected.
 But take away the foreign sales, and many American businesses would be struggling. Outside of oil, domestic demand is faltering as American consumers pull back on spending. 
 Consumer spending was negative in June, after adjusting for inflation, and Americans shied away from foreign-made clothing, appliances, computers and a number of other common consumer goods.
 ''If you look at apparel and TV and furniture and toys and games, they were all down, and down quite sharply,'' said Nigel Gault, chief domestic economist at Global Insight, a research firm.
 ''The only reason imports didn't plunge this month was because of pharmaceuticals,'' Mr. Gault said, ''which were way up but can be very volatile from one month to the next.''
 Imports fell 1.9 percent in June after stripping out oil and pharmaceutical products, according to data from ING Bank. Food and beverage demand dipped 1.9 percent, clothing was down nearly 8 percent, and semiconductors dropped 6.1 percent.
 The weakening purchasing power of the American consumer could eventually drag down growth around the world, in turn driving down foreign demand. And a slowdown in other countries could hurt American exports, now a strong point in a weak domestic economy.
 ''It's very good news that exports have been doing so well,'' Mr. Gault said. ''We don't want to imagine how bad things would be if they hadn't been.''
 Indeed, foreign demand has been holding up, but there are signs of economic weakness abroad. Last week, the European Central Bank warned of a slowdown in growth and suggested it would hold interest rates steady to help fight inflation. 
 The dollar has also started to strengthen slightly, which could hurt export sales, although that trend was not reflected in the June trade report.
 Oil prices have been falling since July, a favorable trend for American businesses, although that could hurt import sales and widen the trade deficit. 
 For now, the narrower trade deficit will probably nudge up the American gross domestic product for the second quarter of 2008, which was originally estimated at 1.9 percent. 
 A higher G.D.P. figure suggests more activity at American businesses. 
 The housing slump shows few signs of improvement and banks are continuing to struggle with a tight credit market. On Monday, the Federal Reserve reported that American banks tightened their lending standards in the last few months, a discouraging sign for businesses and households, particularly Americans who are seeking mortgages. 
 In June, the biggest export increases came in semiconductors, up 6.2 percent, and food and beverage products, which increased 8.8 percent.
 Imports rose for civilian aircraft, up about 20 percent for the month, and pharmaceutical sales, up 26.6 percent. Over all, imports advanced 1.8 percent to $221.2 billion.
 The trade deficit with China widened to $21.4 billion, from $21.1 billion in May. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: Balance of Trade: The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Commerce Department) Chart details line graphs for imports and exports. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); TRENDS (89%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); TOYS & GAMES (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (62%); ING GROEP NV (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

TICKER: INGA (BIT) (53%); INGA (AMS) (53%); ING (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (53%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2008



302 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LAGOS JOURNAL; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: Opulence and Chaos Meet In an African Boomtown

BYLINE: By WILL CONNORS

DATELINE: LAGOS, Nigeria 

 BODY:
The governor's son sits hunched at the bar, contemplating his nearly empty bottle of Hennessy. On the dance floor, the airline director's daughter sways back and forth to a hip-hop beat. Nearby, the star soccer player, just in from London, tries to squeeze past his growing circle of fans and hangers-on. In the center of the club, the oil magnate's son gets on top of a table and takes a swig from a bottle of Dom Perignon. 
 Just another Saturday night in Lagos, one of Africa's money- and contrast-rich boomtowns. Already a city of superlatives on the continent (it has variously been deemed Africa's most traffic-plagued, most populous and fastest-growing megacity), Lagos has a new title to add to its mantel: most expensive. 
 Lagos has always been one of the most powerful commercial hubs in West Africa, ever since slaves were first shipped from here to Europe and the Americas. But because of the rising price of oil, the declining United States dollar, the relocation of foreign workers from the oil-rich but kidnapping-prone Niger Delta, large privatization efforts and a mad dash for the city's remaining plots of land, Lagos is more flush with cash and full of glitter than ever. 
 A recent study of the most expensive cities for expatriates by the consulting firm Mercer found that Lagos ranked 30th, making it only slightly less costly than New York but considerably more expensive than Los Angeles, Miami and Washington. 
 Even European cities like Stockholm and Barcelona, Spain, were found to be more affordable -- and in Lagos the high prices are that much more eye-popping because the average Nigerian survives on less than $2 a day. 
 Evidence of vast amounts of money floating around the ''islands'' -- two small pieces of land poking into the Atlantic that anchor the city's economic activity and are home to banks, consulates and oil and telecommunications companies -- is everywhere. Dinner for two at an average restaurant costs more than $200. A cocktail costs more than $15. A box of cereal costs $12 at a supermarket. Hotel rooms under $400 are difficult to find.
 In the aisles of glistening new malls, expatriates and wealthy Nigerians often buy $10,000 watches and $5,000 cellphones. New BMWs, Mercedes-Benzes and Bentleys plod through grinding traffic, bumping over rocks and weaving around potholes. 
 Multimillion-dollar yachts speed up and down the creek separating the two islands. (The creek was recently determined to be too shallow for the biggest yachts, so a dredging project has been started to deepen the waterway.) 
 Apartment rents on the islands start at $3,000 a month, but rents of $6,000 to $7,000 a month are common here, and renters are required to pay two or three years of rent in advance.
 But high prices do not always mean high quality. The city was built to accommodate fewer than 100,000 residents, but it is now home to an estimated 14 million or more, according to the state government. So no matter what your station in life is, it is impossible to avoid the city's traffic or its lack of reliable water and electricity. Most homes and businesses on the islands run on diesel-powered generators nearly 24 hours a day, resulting in thousands of dollars in energy bills.
 Tayo Emden, 33, a British-educated Ghanaian who has lived in Lagos for five years as a director for a telecommunications company, said the costs were just too high to stay. 
 ''After living in London with colleagues, we thought Lagos would be nice and cushy, but we're having second thoughts,'' Ms. Emden said. ''You used to get a lot of bang for your buck, but that's not the case anymore.'' 
 Several efforts have been made to create economic hubs away from the islands to reduce traffic and lessen the burden, but none have been successful. So at least three million commuters fight their way through hours of traffic to the islands every day. Many leave before 5 a.m. to beat the traffic, and many do not return home until after 10 p.m.
 Moreover, most Lagosians do not enjoy the privileges of the city's new wealth, and perhaps no economic division cuts deeper than housing. On the islands, plots of 645 square feet sell for millions of dollars, and houses built on the plots are subdivided and rented out to wealthy Nigerians or expatriates whose companies do not bargain down. 
 ''Living in Lagos is tough, that's the bottom line,'' said Bola Sobande, the general manager of the popular Palms shopping mall. ''But Nigerians are survivors. We survive against all odds. Until something else comes up, we'll just hang in there.'' 
 More than 70 percent of the city's residents live in informal housing, crammed into slums with no electricity or water, according to Felix Morka, the executive director of the Social and Economic Rights Action Center, a local economic rights group. 
 ''Only the superrich can compete in this market,'' Mr. Morka said. ''Most people are looking for a small plot of land where they can build a shack, or to rent space in what are known as 'I See You, You See Me' buildings with no facilities at all. That's what people can afford. 
 ''The oil companies can afford to rent out huge complexes for all their staff,'' Mr. Morka said, ''so why would a landlord want to rent out to the Nigerian teacher who barely is even assured of a salary at the end of the month?''
 Because of widespread corruption, the vast amounts of money coming in rarely trickle down in Nigeria. Still, more and more people stream into the city every day, drawn by the prospect of wealth absent from most of the rest of Nigeria. 
 ''People are moving to Lagos because you can find work, you don't need to know anybody or have anything,'' said Francisco Abosede, the state minister for public planning.
 Early on a Sunday morning, as the rich and famous begin to stumble out of clubs and into the hazy light, they are quickly surrounded by dozens of young boys acting as informal parking attendants or hawking chewing gum, mints and phone cards. The boys are paid little mind, but if they are lucky, a small bill may be handed to them from behind the narrow slit of a tinted window of a departing BMW.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left, the scene last weekend in Lagos, Nigeria: one of the city's nightclubs, a line of yachts, one of the boys who try to sell chewing gum and cigarettes to departing nightclub patrons, and a soccer player's Ferrari outside a club.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BENEDICTE KURZEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIP HOP CULTURE (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); RANKINGS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); US DOLLAR (75%); CITY LIFE (74%); RIVERS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (66%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (61%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (60%); ATHLETES (57%); SOCCER (57%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAGOS, NIGERIA (96%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%) CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) NIGERIA (96%); AFRICA (93%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NIGER (79%); SPAIN (75%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2008



303 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING AMERICAS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 99 words

HEADLINE: CANADA: TRADE SURPLUS GREW IN JUNE

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
A surge in oil exports to the United States raised Canada's trade surplus in June, boding well for an economy that is narrowly skirting a recession. The trade surplus widened for a second consecutive month in June, to 5.8 billion Canadian dollars ($5.4 billion), in line with expectations and up from 5.22 billion Canadian dollars in May, Statistics Canada said. The surplus was helped by an 11.5 percent increase in exports of energy products worldwide and a 3.1 percent jump in total exports. However, the gain was entirely because of the commodity price boom, as export volumes actually fell. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (88%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (88%); STATISTICS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2008



304 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: An S.U.V. Traffic Jam

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
The market for sport utility vehicles is starting to look a lot like the housing market, spreading pain to consumers, automakers and dealers. 
 Even the vocabulary is sadly familiar. Bloated inventories? Days spent on the market?
 Well, in July, General Motors dealers had a 174-day supply of the Yukon XL/Suburban on hand, on average, up from a 92-day supply a year earlier. Inventory of the Chevrolet C/K Suburban nearly doubled over the same period, to 116 days from 63 days.
 Just like hapless homeowners, countless car owners are now ''underwater,'' driving vehicles that are worth less than the balance on their car loans. And just like desperate homeowners, the sellers of S.U.V.'s are having to painfully cut asking prices. 
 For instance, Michael Kohan, a recent graduate of Hofstra University's law school, decided that hundreds of dollars a month filling up his 2006 Land Rover LR3 would be better spent paying down his student loans. He calculated that his vehicle -- loaded with luxuries like a navigation system, xenon lights, parking assist sensors, heated leather seats and three sunroofs -- should be worth at least $31,000, according to the Kelley Blue Book. 
 But with a V-8 engine that gets only about 14 miles per gallon, Mr. Kohan, 24, decided to list his LR3 on eBay and Craigslist for $18,000. And yet, he told a reporter this week, ''As low as I set the price, you're the first person to call.''
 Dealers are going through the same pain, only multiplied. They normally spend this time of year raking in some of their biggest profits and breathlessly promoting Detroit's newest models. Instead, they almost cannot give S.U.V.'s away.
 ''There's never been discounts this big before on them, but people are still shying away,'' said Kevin Fortman, a sales manager at Wolf Chevrolet in Naperville, Ill. 
 Mr. Fortman said his dealership had dozens more sport utility vehicles left from the 2008 model year than it needed, even as factories began rolling out newer versions. ''We're not going to order any '09s for a while,'' he said.
 Automakers are offering discounts of $10,000 or more on some S.U.V.'s just to get rid of them, so dealers have space to stock more of the fuel-efficient cars consumers are clamoring for. On average, new sport utility vehicles sold for 20 percent below sticker price in July, according to Edmunds.com, a Web site that gives car-buying advice to consumers.
 That, in turn, has decimated prices for used S.U.V.'s.
 Ultimately, car companies are the ones that will pay, because they will have the new S.U.V.'s on their hands as well as the used and leased ones. 
 The sudden collapse of the S.U.V. market has cost Detroit dearly. As part of its $8.7 billion second-quarter loss, Ford took a charge of $2.1 billion to cover the rapidly declining value of used sport utility vehicles coming off lease. 
 G.M. also took a big hit on its quarterly earnings. GMAC Financial Services, which is jointly owned by G.M. and Cerberus Capital Management, reported a $2.5 billion loss in the second quarter, which included a $716 million impairment charge from lower S.U.V. residual values. G.M., which lost $15.5 billion in the quarter, was also forced to contribute about $1.5 billion in lease support payments to GMAC.
 Chrysler, which is privately owned by Cerberus and does not report financial results, stunned the industry by pulling out of leasing altogether on Aug. 1 because of the falling values of its used vehicles.
 In their heyday, sport utility vehicles brought hefty profits to automakers. But today those companies are slashing output and closing plants amid plummeting demand -- only they cannot act fast enough to prevent a logjam of the vehicles already produced and in the pipeline.
 Sales of S.U.V.'s are down 32 percent so far this year, and were off 43 percent for July.
 Ford logged just 5,404 sales last month of its Explorer, the best-selling sport utility vehicle in history, and is on pace to sell fewer than 100,000 Explorers this year for the first time since introducing the model nearly two decades ago.
 The Expedition, the Explorer's bigger sibling, has suffered even more. 
 Bob Creech, who sells semi tractors in Moorestown, N.J., found a buyer for his meticulously maintained 2004 Eddie Bauer Edition Expedition this week only after he knocked a few hundred dollars off the asking price. The vehicle, which he bought five years ago for about $44,000 and drove for 106,000 miles, sold for $8,600.
 ''I took a little bit of a beating,'' Mr. Creech, 52, said. ''I really enjoyed driving it, I liked the ride of it and the visibility, but it just wasn't practical.''
 Last month, Automotive Lease Guide, the company whose estimates of vehicle value, after several years of depreciation, are used to calculate lease payments, made unprecedented downward adjustments to many sport utility vehicles' residual values. The company now says a Ford Expedition will retain 32 percent of its value after three years and that a Chevrolet Suburban will be worth just 30 percent of its original price. A few years ago, such vehicles were estimated to keep about half their value after three years.
 ''These big trucks and S.U.V.'s are really dinosaurs at this point,'' said John Blair, chief executive of Automotive Lease Guide. ''Consumers like S.U.V.'s. They haven't fallen out of love with the things that made them popular, but it's just become an issue of economics. When you look at paying several hundred dollars a month more in fuel, that becomes a big deal for most households.''
 High gas prices have hurt S.U.V.'s more than pickup trucks because a large proportion of the people who have been driving S.U.V.'s were more attracted to their style than their capabilities, whereas pickups are popular among contractors and other workers who haul supplies. Many commuters and couples without young children have abandoned S.U.V.'s for vehicles that are less costly to drive.
 Additionally, many shoppers interested in buying S.U.V.'s already own an S.U.V., and end up walking away from dealerships after learning how little their current vehicles are worth.
 ''Everybody thinks you're lying to them,'' said Mr. Fortman, the Chevrolet sales manager in Illinois. ''Nobody wants to take that big of a hit.''
 Because the S.U.V.'s decline is largely owing to high gas prices, experts say the only way that the segment could rebound significantly is for gas prices to decline. Edmunds.com said the number of visitors researching S.U.V.'s has increased slightly in recent weeks as gas prices have retreated.
 Given how much the automakers and dealers are willing to knock off an S.U.V.'s price, this is not a bad time to buy one, said Jesse Toprak, the director of industry analysis at Edmunds. Yet so many consumers are eager to avoid weekly $100 fill-ups that they are more focused on saving money at the gas pump than at the dealership.
 ''It's a very psychological decision,'' Mr. Toprak said. ''You pay for the car just once, but you go to the pump every week, so that almost seems more important to you. Every time you go to the pump, you just want to feel good about it.''
 And so thousands of Americans have been exchanging their sport utility vehicles for fuel-efficient cars, despite low trade-in values for the larger vehicles and a scarcity of small cars that has allowed dealers to charge sticker price or more for them.
 ''When you trade in a large S.U.V. for a compact car, you're selling low and buying high,'' Mr. Toprak said. ''For a lot of people that's not really logical, but they're not really running the numbers.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 26, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Aug. 13 with an article about auto dealers' difficulties in selling sport utility vehicles misidentified the employer of Kevin Whims, who was shown at Matthews-Hargreaves Chevrolet in Royal Oak, Mich. He is an account representative for Dealer Specialties, not for Matthews-Hargreaves.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kevin Whims, an account representative at Matthews-Hargreaves Chevrolet in Royal Oak, Mich., had more ignition keys than customers Friday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Matthews-Hargreaves Chevrolet, usually a big seller of sport utility vehicles, has had little luck luring customers with sales.
 Sales of the Explorer sport utility vehicle, long a moneymaker for Ford Motor, are on pace this year to be their lowest ever.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C7) CHARTS: Sitting . . . . . . Selling: As truck and sport utility vehicle sales have fallen, the time it takes to sell the vehicles already on dealers' lots has risen sharply. On the other hand, as smaller, more fuel-efficient cars have become more popular, the supply has fallen.(Source: Autodata) Chart details statistics for say's supply. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); STUDENT LOANS (74%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (74%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); PRICE CUTTING (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (68%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); KELLEY BLUE BOOK CO INC (55%); CRAIGSLIST INC (54%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2008



305 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: After $43 Billion in Write-Downs, UBS to Split Main Businesses

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
Trying to salvage its reputation, the Swiss banking giant UBS announced changes on Tuesday that would separate its struggling investment banking business from its lucrative wealth management operation. 
 The banks' three main units are wealth management, a prized division that focuses on banking for private clients; asset management; and the investment bank, where the brunt of the recent losses at the bank have occurred. 
 Separating the three would give each greater autonomy and ''maximum strategic flexibility,'' UBS said. Some shareholders said the split was intended to facilitate a sale, but the bank's chairman, Peter Kurer, said the businesses were not for sale. 
 The bank, based in Zurich, has come under increasing pressure to make changes, having written down about $43 billion since the mortgage crisis started last summer, making it the European bank hardest hit by the market turmoil. By contrast, Citigroup, based in New York, has more than $56 billion in credit losses and write-downs in the last four quarters, while Merrill Lynch, also in New York, has marked down more than $45 billion. 
 UBS on Tuesday reported an additional $5 billion in write-downs on subprime assets and a fourth consecutive quarterly loss. 
 The losses have taken a heavy toll at UBS, known for its conservative investment strategy. 
 Seeking bigger returns and to compete with larger rivals, UBS heavily invested in the market for subprime mortgage securities. 
 Now, Marcel Rohner, who took over as chief executive last year, is reducing risk and cutting 5,500 jobs, almost half of that in the investment banking business. Some investors would like UBS to sell Paine Webber, the American brokerage house that it acquired in 2000. 
 The losses at UBS have already led to the departure of a chief executive, a chairman and other senior managers and led it to seek emergency investments from Singapore and Middle East funds. Since then, UBS has had to buy back nearly $20 billion in auction-rate securities as part of a settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission and remains part of an investigation by state and federal regulators into whether it helped American customers evade taxes. 
 The management of UBS has pledged to revive confidence among its customers and shareholders, who saw the investment banking losses harm the reputation of UBS as a wealth manager. Investors also criticized how the wealth management business subsidized the investment banking unit with relatively inexpensive capital. Some shareholders welcomed the changes but said much more needed to be done, especially in the wealth management division. ''The split will increase visibility and accountability, which is a good thing in a market like this, but it may be more important to stabilize outflows at the wealth management business and to hire private bankers,'' said Adrian Darley, a fund manager at Resolution Asset Management in London. 
 UBS, the world's biggest wealth manager, said clients withdrew a net 17.3 billion Swiss francs ($15.9 billion) from its two wealth management businesses in the second quarter, which was more than analysts had estimated. The biggest withdrawals happened in April, Mr. Rohner, the UBS chief, said, adding that he expected the worst to be over. The wealth management unit contributes more than 70 percent to group revenue. 
 Shares of UBS initially rose 3.8 percent on Tuesday in Zurich as some investors interpreted the announcement of the revamping as a sign that UBS was addressing its problems as write-downs in the second quarter met analysts' expectations. But at the end of the trading day, UBS was down 2.4 percent in Zurich, bringing its decline for the year to 51.5 percent; shares fell 6.4 percent in New York on Tuesday. 
 Splitting the three divisions will make it easier to hold managers and staff directly accountable and ''make UBS more effective and agile,'' the bank said. The split, which is to be completed by the end of 2009, is the result of a review that revealed weaknesses with the integrated business model and ''unnecessary layers of complexity,'' Mr. Kurer said. 
 Still, he acknowledged that the changes were no miracle cure and that the bank would need to do more. ''We're by no means at the end of the road of a recovery,'' he told analysts during a conference call. ''There will be and must be more measures.'' 
 Florian Esterer, a fund manager at Swisscanto Asset Management, said the plan to separate the businesses did not make up for a lack of an overall strategy. ''It's reacting to market pressures,'' Mr. Esterer said. ''I'm still missing a clear vision as to what they really want to do with the business.'' 
 As part of the changes, UBS named John Cryan as chief financial officer, succeeding Marco Suter. Mr. Cryan was head of the financial institutions group at the investment banking unit. The bank also hired Markus U. Diethelm, the chief legal officer of Swiss Re, as general counsel and nominated four members to the board, including William G. Parrett, a former chief executive of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu. 
 UBS also reported on Tuesday that it had a net loss of 358 million Swiss francs ($3.3 million) in the second quarter compared with a profit of 5.55 billion francs ($5 billion) a year earlier. The loss was eased by a tax credit of 3.8 billion francs ($3.5 billion). 
 The investment bank had a loss of 5.23 billion francs ($4.85 billion) after about $5.1 billion in write-downs and UBS said it would continue to reduce staff, costs and risky assets. 
 UBS posted revenue of 4 billion francs ($3.69 billion) in the period, down from the 16 billion francs ($14.8 billion) it reported in the second quarter of 2007. 
 It gave a bleak outlook for the second half of the year, saying it did not expect ''any improvement in current adverse economic and financial market trends.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Peter Kurer, the UBS chairman, answered questions on Tuesday about the bank's second quarter and its reorganization.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELE LIMINA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (91%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); PRIVATE BANKING (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (75%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); TAX FRAUD (61%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (96%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (96%); UBS (NYSE) (96%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (96%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (78%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); SWITZERLAND (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2008



306 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING ASIA; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: JAPAN: ECONOMY CONTRACTED IN SECOND QUARTER

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Japan's economy contracted 0.6 percent in the second quarter, reinforcing views that its economy had slipped into recession after its longest postwar expansion. Falling exports, weak consumption and declines in public and private investment spending, aggravated by high energy and raw material costs and the slowdown in the United States, led to the contraction. With the economy losing its driving force, many economists and government officials say Japan is either falling into a recession or is already in one, ending a growth cycle that began in early 2002, the longest of the postwar period. The second-quarter contraction followed quarterly growth of a revised 0.8 percent, or an annualized 3.2 percent rise, in the prior quarter. Private consumption, which accounts for about 55 percent of Japan's gross domestic product, fell 0.5 percent from the previous quarter after increases in food and gasoline prices hurt consumer sentiment and weak wages cut into spending. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (88%); CONSUMPTION (88%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (88%); OIL & GAS PRICES (87%); GASOLINE PRICES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2008



307 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: Mechanism For Credit Is Still Stuck

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
A year after financial tremors first shook Wall Street, a crucial artery of modern money management remains broken. And until that conduit is fixed or replaced, analysts say borrowers will see interest rates continue to rise even as availability worsens for home mortgages, student loans, auto loans and commercial mortgages.
 The conduit, the market for securitization, through which mortgages and other debts are packaged and sold as securities, has become sclerotic and almost totally dependent on government support. The problems, intensified by bond investors who have grown leery of these instruments, have been a drag on the economy and have persisted despite the exercise of extraordinary regulatory powers by policy makers. 
 ''The mortgage finance system in the United States has been badly damaged,'' said Anthony Lembke, co-head of investments at MKP Capital Management, a hedge fund firm that is a big investor in mortgages. ''There is definitely some reinvention that will need to occur, and that will include some explicit involvement by the government.'' 
 Bond investors first stopped buying private home mortgage deals, then shunned commercial mortgages. Now, they are becoming wary of credit card debts and auto loans. In the first half, private securitizations reached just $131 billion, down sharply from $1 trillion in the same period last year, according to data compiled by ThomsonReuters. 
 Some analysts say investors are acting like the ''bond vigilantes'' of the 1980s and early 1990s. Those traders drove a surge in interest rates because they feared inflation and a mounting federal budget deficit. 
 ''The bond vigilantes took law and order in their own hands and pushed yields up, which would slow down the economy and bring down inflation,'' said Edward E. Yardeni, an investment strategist who is credited with coining the term. ''This time the bond credit vigilantes are refusing to go into the saloon and start drinking what Wall Street's financial engineers are mixing.'' 
 For their part, bond traders say that the weakening economy is making it harder for them to invest with confidence because even areas like auto loans, credit cards and commercial mortgages that once seemed secure now look vulnerable. They are also worried that demand for the securities they trade in will be weaker in the future as banks, brokerage firms and other investors are forced to sell. 
 Their reluctance to invest implies that credit, whether for businesses that want to expand or people who want to buy homes, will remain tight. That concern was underscored by the Federal Reserve's most recent survey of loan officers, which on Monday showed that most domestic banks had tightened lending standards and that demand for loans had weakened in the second quarter. 
 The pullback is compounded by a continued rise in interest rates despite the Fed's efforts to grease the wheels of finance by gradually slashing its benchmark rate to 2 percent, down from 5.25 percent last August. The average interest rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage climbed to 6.7 percent last week, from 5.89 percent in the spring.
 ''It appears that every time we peel away this onion, there is another layer,'' said Curtis D. Ishii, the senior investment officer for fixed income at Calpers, the large California pension fund. He added that investors were starting to realize that the pain in the credit market would persist for some time.
 One measure of that stress is found in falling home prices. ''To the extent that home prices keep spiraling down, the need for capital keeps increasing,'' said Alejandro H. Aguilar, a portfolio manager at American Century Investments, the mutual fund company. Investors will be able to better estimate the size of their losses once it becomes clear how far prices will fall and when they will hit bottom.
 As they wait for the housing market to recover, many investors have continued to rush to safe havens like Treasuries and other debts with a government backing or a short payoff, a sign that investors remain unwilling to invest in mortgages, even though lending standards have improved from the go-go days of the housing boom.
 Money market funds, the short-term cash alternatives, grew to $2.9 trillion in June, up from $2.1 trillion a year ago, according to Crane Data. Those funds, in turn, have more than tripled their holdings of Treasuries and other government debt while reducing the share of their portfolios invested in somewhat riskier corporate notes.
 Patrick Ledford, chief investment officer at the Reserve, one of the nation's largest operators of money market funds, said some institutional investors had moved assets into government funds from broader money market funds to avoid exposure to commercial paper, which are short-term debts. 
 Some of the slack in the credit market has been taken up by the government chartered mortgage finance companies Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae. The three firms have securitized $692 billion in home mortgages through June, putting them on track to match, approximately, the $1.2 trillion they securitized in 2007, according to Inside Mortgage Finance, a financial trade publication. 
 But prices for these securities have fallen in the last two months, despite the backing of the government companies and initiatives by Congress and the Treasury to create a stronger government safety net for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
 The two companies, which reported big losses last week, have said that they might reduce or slow the amount of large loans they buy from banks, a signal that two giants that had been big buyers might become sellers. If so, that would lower the price of mortgage securities even more, raising the cost of borrowing for home buyers. 
 Because those developments have damped the private mortgage market, the Treasury Department has sought to revive activity by encouraging the use of covered bonds, which have been a popular investment in Europe. 
 Unlike a mortgage security, the home loans that back a covered bond stay on the issuing bank's balance sheet. If loans default, banks replace them, making the bonds less risky to investors but more so to the banks. In July, four big banks -- Bank of America, Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo &#151; said they would issue covered bonds.
 But before jumping in wholesale, investors say they want to know more about the quality of loans backing the bonds and see more detailed federal rules about how the bonds will be handled if banks fail. 
 ''It may be a step in the right direction,'' said Daniel O. Shackelford, a bond portfolio manager at T. Rowe Price, the mutual fund firm. ''But I am not sure it will solve all the problems.'' 
 Some New York Loans Shunned
 Freddie Mac said Tuesday that it would stop buying subprime loans issued in New York State as a new law takes effect that holds investors accountable for mortgage fraud.
 Freddie will not buy loans dated on or after Sept. 1 that meet the state's subprime definition, the government-chartered company said in a lender bulletin on its Web site. Gov. David A. Paterson of New York signed new foreclosure and lending laws last week that tighten legal protections for borrowers.
 The legislation holds mortgage buyers like Freddie liable in ways that ''we have no way of monitoring and preventing,'' Brad German, a company spokesman, said.
 The state law may disproportionately affect borrowers looking to use state and federal mortgage rescue programs to refinance out of unaffordable subprime loans, Mr. German said, but he said it would affect a ''very, very small number'' of loans.
 A spokeswoman for Governor Paterson, Erin Duggan, had no immediate comment.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Credit Pains: The packaging of mortgages and other debts into securities by investment banks has slowed significantly. Some of the slack has been picked up by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae, the government-sponsored companies.(Source: Thomson Reuters, Inside Mortgage Finance) Chart details bar graph for each.(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BUDGETS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SECURITIZATION (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); STUDENT LOANS (72%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); HEDGE FUNDS (53%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2008



308 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: Fast Food Intervention

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

 BODY:
A NEW weapon in the battle against obesity was rolled out last month when the Los Angeles City Council decided to stop new fast food restaurants from opening in some of the city's poorest neighborhoods.
 Even in a country where a third of the schoolchildren are overweight or obese, the yearlong moratorium raises questions about when eating one style of food stops being a personal choice and becomes a public health concern.
 The Sisyphean struggle against poor diets has included booting soda from schools, banning trans fat and, more recently, sending New Yorkers into dietary sticker shock with a law that requires calorie counts be posted on menus, right next to the prices. 
 But this appears to be the first time a government has prohibited a specific style of restaurant for health, rather than aesthetic, reasons. 
 Jonathan Gold, the LA Weekly food critic who won a Pulitzer Prize last year, said he understands the spirit of the freeze, which is an urban planning measure meant to keep the neighborhood, South Los Angeles, from being swallowed up by drive-though fast food restaurants. (A separate measure by the city provides economic incentives for new grocery stores and restaurants with table service.)
 Fast food chains, he said, are like jellyfish in the ocean: with too many in one area, nothing else can thrive. 
 But he worries that the law could keep out places of more culinary interest. South Los Angeles has the best barbecue in the city, he said, and it has a growing number of cooks from Mexico and Central America making lamb barbacoa and pupusas. ''Anytime you try to ban something, there's a lot of bycatch,'' he said.
 The moratorium's definition of a fast food business is any stand-alone restaurant that dispenses food, to stay or to go, and that has ''a limited menu, items prepared in advance or prepared or heated quickly, no table orders, and food served in disposable wrapping or containers.'' It is up to the city's director of planning to decide which places fit that definition.
 That could keep out people like Sue Moore, who sells a high-quality hot dog from cattle raised on pasture, served with fresh grilled onions on top. She was invited to park her Let's Be Frank truck at the premiere of ''Star Wars: The Clone Wars'' this week at the Egyptian Theater in Hollywood.
 She and her partner, Larry Bain, who runs two hot dog carts in San Francisco, say that there's nothing wrong with fast food if it's made with good ingredients. They worry that their dogs will be shunned along with dogs made from lesser ingredients.
 ''Our policy makers abhor nuance and the subtle but distinct qualities that differentiate fast food from food that can be served fast,'' said Mr. Bain.
 The councilwoman behind the moratorium, Jan Perry, says its intent is not to crush food choices, but to encourage variety and give residents more nutritious options. Making healthy decisions about food is difficult when people have small incomes, the grocery store is five miles away and a $1 cheeseburger is right around the corner, she and supporters of the ban say.
 The moratorium doesn't mean that people who live within the affected 32-square-mile zone will be cut off from the pleasures of an inexpensive cheeseburger and hot fries. More than 45 percent of the 900 restaurants there -- the highest concentration in the city -- are fast food chains. 
 The idea is to bring new eating options to the city's food deserts, the term now in vogue to describe poor neighborhoods whose residents have few places to buy fresh groceries. 
 ''People do not understand what happens in a disenfranchised community,'' said Councilwoman Perry, who represents neighborhoods in the area. ''The fact remains, there are not a lot of food choices in South L.A.'' 
 Since there is not much land left to develop in the area, the moratorium will allow city planners time to determine what kinds of businesses would be best in an area where rates of obesity and diseases related to it are disproportionately high.
 ''Anybody who believes fast food is the source of all dietary evil is, of course, being naive,'' she said. Other facets of modern life contribute to obesity. People drive more than they walk. Children play video games more often than stickball. And daily life has become saturated with opportunities to eat. 
 Almost three-fourths of the advertising aimed at children is for candy, snacks, sugary cereals or fast food. Portions at restaurants have been steadily growing since the 1970s. During that period, people have been eating at home less and at restaurants more. And the majority of those restaurants are chains. 
 ''What we're beginning to see is almost the monopolization of our dietary intake by a handful of corporations,'' said David Zinczenko, editor in chief of Men's Health magazine and the author of several diet books, including ''Eat This, Not That! for Kids!'' (Rodale, 2008).
 ''Add to that the financial reality of feeding ourselves today, where a single grapefruit from a corner fruit stand costs two or more times as much as a few Chicken McNuggets,'' he said, ''and I think you can begin to put together a case for governmental intervention.''
 But not everyone agrees, including Joe R. Hicks, a radio talk show host who was the executive director of Los Angeles's Human Relations Commission under Mayor Richard Riordan a decade ago. The two now work for a think tank that focuses on race relations.
 ''The crime in all of this is that people are sitting around meddling into the very minutiae of what people are putting in their mouths,'' he said. 
 He argues that the ban assumes the 500,000 people who live in South Los Angeles are intellectually incapable of deciding what to eat. 
 ''It's insulting, and you could almost infer a racial insult out of the interference,'' he said.
 Councilwoman Perry said that halting fast food outlets is no different from other ways cities try to protect a neighborhood's character, like limiting liquor stores or heavy industry. 
 And to say that the moratorium was racially charged or that it implies that poor people can't decide what to eat for themselves, she said, is a diversion from providing access to better food. 
 The National Restaurant Association, which opposes the ban, agrees that government has a stake in the size of Americans. Taxpayers increasingly must pay for the health costs associated with poor diets and obesity. But, said John Gay of the association, lawmakers can go too far. 
 ''They can't control food at home, where most of the calories are eaten. They can't control Xbox usage, TV usage and Internet usage,'' he said. ''So where can they grab a hold of this? I'm afraid that leads them to restaurants.'' Requiring calorie counts on menus is another tactic. New York City now requires calorie counts, and other cities have begun to pass similar laws. California is considering a statewide requirement. The National Restaurant Association might propose a national standard, like the one governing packaged food, that would require uniform nutritional information to be available on wall posters, tray liners or brochures, but not on the menus themselves.
 Health advocates say calories should be posted right next to price, so people can make quick, informed decisions.
 ''There is not a single public health crisis in the history of mankind that has been solved by handing out brochures,'' said Harold Goldstein, executive director of the California Center for Public Health Advocacy.
 In South Los Angeles, the burgers continue to fry. 
 ''There is a sentiment here that it is a little anti-American, but people forget government tells businesses where to go all the time,'' said Eddie North-Hager, a blogger who runs a community bulletin board focused on his neighborhood, Leimert Park, which is about 90 percent black and within the ban area.
 He says there are 10 McDonald's restaurants within three miles of his home. ''It seems like a lot,'' he said, ''and that's just McDonald's.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FROZEN OUT: No fast food businesses may open for a year in South Los Angeles, where obesity and a dearth of food markets are concerns.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID MCNEW/GETTY IMAGES)
 CHOICES: Jan Perry, a councilwoman in Los Angeles, said the fast food moratorium may give residents healthier options. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANI DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAST FOOD (93%); RESTAURANTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); OBESITY (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); CHILDREN (73%); OILS & FATS (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (68%); LAND USE PLANNING (68%); RETAILERS (66%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); CENTRAL AMERICA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2008



309 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: State's Take on Demolition Roils Renters and Owners

BYLINE: By PATRICK MCGEEHAN

 BODY:
When is a demolished apartment building not demolished?
 That is not a child's riddle. It was the subject of hours of protest and impassioned oratory at a public hearing in Lower Manhattan on Tuesday about proposed changes to the rules on renovating rent-stabilized housing. 
 The State Division of Housing and Community Renewal has proposed to define what constitutes a demolition plan, which would allow the owner of a rent-stabilized building to evict its tenants. For several years, tenants' advocates have complained that the lack of a precise definition of demolition has allowed landlords to push out low-rent tenants and create luxury condominiums. 
 But now that the division has come up with a definition, those advocates do not like it. Neither, it seems, do building owners.
 Representatives of both groups testified at a public hearing held by the division, and none of them had much positive to say about the proposed regulations, which would define demolition as the complete gutting of a building's interior -- but not necessarily the removal of its outside walls or support beams.
 Councilwoman Rosie Mendez of Manhattan said that demolition should be defined as ''to be razed down to the floor, so if you can see it, it's not a demolition.''
 The division's more-liberal definition would ''rubber-stamp the practice of partial, or phony, demolitions,'' said Serge Joseph, a tenants' lawyer with Himmelstein McConnell Gribben Donoghue & Joseph. He said it would ''open the floodgates for owners to evict rent-regulated tenants.''
 That trend is already well under way, according to Monte P. Schapiro, a bookseller who lives in a five-story tenement on Fifth Street in the East Village. Mr. Schapiro, 51, said new owners of his building filed an application to demolish it but told him that they did not intend to raze it.
 Instead, Mr. Schapiro said, they offered to pay the tenants to leave so that they could renovate their apartments into condominiums and capitalize on the city's real-estate boom. Mr. Schapiro said he flatly rejected the initial offer of a $5,000 buyout in lieu of facing eviction, but some other tenants accepted larger sums and left. He said the owners used similar tactics to clear out all of the tenants of another rent-stabilized building on Elizabeth Street in just four months.
 The regulation regarding demolition was intended ''to allow owners to demolish buildings which were unsalvageable,'' Mr. Schapiro said. ''It was never meant to provide speculators and real estate investors with an easy way to displace all the tenants in newly acquired properties so that the building could be deregulated.''
 But lawyers for building owners said they should be allowed to do just that.
 ''This is not an issue of compelling necessity,'' said Sherwin Belkin, a partner in Belkin Burden Wenig & Goldman, a law firm that has advised owners on how to use demolition applications to upgrade their properties. ''This is private property, and if an owner wishes to demolish it, then the owner should be able to.''
 Mitchell Posilkin, the general counsel for the Rent Stabilization Association, a group of about 25,000 building owners, told the panel, of three division officials, that they should drop the proposed definition altogether. A court ruling that called for the division to spell out its definition of demolition has been reversed, Mr. Posilkin said.
 But James Plastiras, a spokesman for the division in Albany, said that while the court ruling had spurred it to define the term, state officials still felt obligated to provide clarification for both tenants and owners. With 47 applications for demolitions pending statewide, he said, there is a need for clarity. 
 The pending regulation also would create a more generous formula for compensating tenants in rent-stabilized buildings that are cleared out for demolition. For six years after their departure, displaced tenants would receive a monthly stipend equal to 120 percent of the average monthly rent of similar stabilized apartments in the same ZIP code. 
 Several elected officials testified that the proposed stipend would be inadequate to keep tenants in their neighborhoods. 
 ''The product of this formula is insufficient,'' said Councilwoman Gale A. Brewer of Manhattan, ''And you definitely can't find a rent-stabilized unit on the Upper West Side.''
 Ms. Brewer and other elected officials, including Assemblywoman Deborah Glick of Manhattan, called for the division to require landlords to relocate displaced tenants in similar-sized apartments at similar rents in the same neighborhood or to raise the stipends to cover market-rate rents.
 Laura Taylor, a freelance fashion designer who lives on West 50th Street, said she was fighting to stay in her rent-stabilized two-bedroom railroad flat because she would not be able to find a similar apartment at the same price anywhere in the neighborhood. She said she had turned down an offer of $90,000 to move.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HEARINGS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); EVICTION (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TRENDS (77%); LAWYERS (74%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (72%); DEREGULATION (68%); BOOKSTORES (50%)

COMPANY: HIMMELSTEIN MCCONNELL GRIBBEN DONOGHUE & JOSEPH (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (66%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2008



310 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 618 words

PERSON: Alexander Slobodyanik 

HEADLINE: Alexander Slobodyanik, Pianist, Is Dead at 65

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

 BODY:
Alexander Slobodyanik, a Ukrainian-born pianist who earned stardom in the former Soviet Union with his virtuosity and emotional interpretations of Romantic composers and who has been a concert pianist and in-demand teacher since moving to the United States in 1989, died on Sunday in New Jersey. He was 65 and lived in Morristown, N.J.
 The cause was infectious meningitis, said Maya Pritsker, the cultural editor of Novoye Russkoye Slovo, a Russian-language daily newspaper in New York City. 
 Mr. Slobodyanik (pronounced slow-buh-DYAH-nik) was something of a prodigy in his homeland, earning a place, at 15, at the Moscow Central Special Music School, where he studied with Heinrich Neuhaus, and later at the Moscow Conservatory. He was recommended by Sviatoslav Richter to the impresario Sol Hurok, who was visiting Moscow, and Hurok brought him to America. 
 Mr. Slobodyanik made his Carnegie Hall debut in 1968 in a solo recital. The program included sonatas by Mozart and Prokofiev, Liszt's Sixth Rhapsody and Schumann's ''Carnaval.'' It left a critic for The New York Times, Donal Henahan, agog at the young man's virtuosic technique and fervid playing. ''One left persuaded,'' he wrote, ''that the Soviet Union had sent us no pianist of this caliber since Vladimir Ashkenazy. Mr. Slobodyanik is the genuine article.''
 Born and raised in Ukraine, Mr. Slobodyanik was a product of the Soviet era. He spoke mostly, if not exclusively, Russian and was devoted, especially in his American years, to Russian composers like Mussorgsky, Scriabin and Shostakovich. He was born in Kiev on Sept. 2, 1942 and grew up mostly in Lviv. His mother was a piano teacher, his father a psychiatrist. Their son, a handsome and personable young man, was a Russian celebrity as a young musician. 
 ''He was a romantic, dreamy person, popular for his looks and for his music,'' Ms. Pritsker said. ''When he was in his 20's and even later, his concerts required policemen to control the crowds.''
 For 10 years, Mr. Slobodyanik returned to the United States frequently, but in 1979, cultural ties between the Soviet Union and the United States were curtailed at the outset of the Afghan war, and he did not appear here again until 1988. He continued to tour in Europe, Asia and Latin America, but the hiatus derailed him on his path to international star status.
 He married Laryssa Krupa, an American-born pianist who is also of Ukrainian descent and who first heard her future husband play in the 1970's when she was 13. She survives him, along with a son from his previous marriage, Alex Slobodyanik, also a concert pianist.
 After moving to the United States, Mr. Slobodyanik continued to record and to perform, including giving frequent recitals with either his wife or his son. He played the premieres of two works by Alfred Schnittke at Carnegie Hall. He was also on the piano faculty at Montclair State University in New Jersey and conducted master classes at Indiana University, DePaul University, the University of Maryland and Williams College, among other places.
 ''I wasn't sure what would happen to my career, but I always wanted to live here,'' he said in a 1993 interview with The New York Times, shortly after he moved to Morristown. He said he knew he faced a difficult path because the audience for not only his music, but for all classical music, had changed since the heady experience of his first Carnegie Hall performance. 
 ''There's a different feeling in the concert halls,'' he said. ''At that time Rubinstein and Horowitz were playing; the halls were filled. Now, with the recession, concerts are canceled, and audiences are not interested in solo recitals. The halls are filled with old people.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alexander Slobodyanik on his first visit to New York, in 1968. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT WALKER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); MUSIC (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); MENINGITIS (72%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (71%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UKRAINE (91%); EUROPE (79%); LATIN AMERICA (72%); ASIA (66%); AFGHANISTAN (51%)

CATEGORY: Music

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2008



311 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: CVS to Pay $2.54 Billion For West Coast Drug Chain

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
CVSCaremark said on Tuesday that it would buy its West Coast rival Longs Drugs Stores in a $2.54 billion deal that would allow it to expand in states like California and broaden the reach of its prescription services. 
 The acquisition of Longs's 521 stores will add to CVS's presence in California and give it a leading position in Hawaii, where it does not operate. Longs stores are also located in Nevada and Arizona.
 CVS will pay $71.50 a share for Longs, including its Rx America subsidiary, a prescription benefits management services company with more than eight million members. Longs shares closed at $54.04 before the news on Tuesday, but surged nearly 30 percent in extended trading. CVS shares fell more than 6 percent in extended trading.
 CVS said it would finance the deal, which also includes up to $360 million in debt, with a $1.5 billion bridge loan facility, together with existing cash. The deal is expected to be completed in the fiscal fourth quarter of 2008.
 The deal is expected to crimp earnings at CVS in its first year, but add to earnings beginning in 2010, the companies said.
 CVS Caremark, which is based in Woonsocket, R.I., and its main competitor, Walgreen, have been expanding beyond the traditional drugstore business in recent years to reap more of the money spent on other areas of health care by an aging American population.
 That foray into a wider array of health care operations has helped mitigate slowing growth of drugstore sales as the economy weakens.
 CVS said that Longs' substantial presence in Southern California would provide a foundation for significant future growth in that state. Longs is based in Walnut Creek, Calif.
 The deal also brings CVS real estate valued at more than $1 billion for some 200 Longs store locations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (78%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (77%); HEALTH CARE (75%); AGING TRENDS (69%)

COMPANY: CVS CAREMARK CORP (94%)

TICKER: CVS (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (94%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); WEST USA (94%); HAWAII, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2008



312 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2340 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES

 BODY:
International
OPULENCE AND CHAOS
In a Nigerian Boomtown
Lagos, the Nigerian mega-city on Africa's west coast, is often described as a city with contrasting superlatives. The city is flush with cash and glitter from the high cost of oil, making it one of the most expensive cities even as the quality of life sags under the weight of overpopulation. The average citizen survives on less than $2 a day. PAGE A13
DISSIDENT ESCAPES POLICE CUSTODY
Human rights advocates said Hua Huiqi, a religious dissident in China who was detained by the authorities on his way to a church service where President Bush was scheduled to worship, has escaped from police custody and gone into hiding. Mr. Hua, an advocate for religious freedom, is the pastor of a ''house church,'' an underground congregation that operates outside China's tightly controlled religious bureaucracy. He has been arrested, jailed and beaten several times. PAGE A12 
EXPERT CITES A STRONGER AL QAEDA
An American terrorism analyst said that Al Qaeda had been successful in forging close ties to Pakistani militant groups, which have given the group an increasingly secure safe haven in the mountainous tribal areas of Pakistan. As a result, he says, Al Qaeda is more capable of attacking inside the United States than it was last year, and its senior leaders have produced ''dozens'' of militants capable of blending into Western society to carry out attacks. PAGE A9
DEATH TOLL CLIMBS IN INDIA
In Indian-controlled Kashmir, the death toll from violence reached 19 as security forces fired on protesters defying a curfew. Six protesters died when the police opened fire in an attempt to stop thousands of protesters from the Muslim-majority Kashmir Valley from approaching the disputed border with Pakistan, the state government said. PAGE A9
REPORTS OF SIDE DEAL IN ZIMBABWE
News agencies reported that Arthur Mutambara, the leader of a breakaway faction of Zimbabwe's opposition party, had signed a deal with President Robert Mugabe to form a unity government -- sidelining the country's main opposition leader, Morgan Tsvangirai, by reaching the deal without him or much of his party. PAGE A13
THREE KILLED IN CHINESE ATTACK
Three security officers were killed and one was wounded in a stabbing attack at a road checkpoint near Kashgar in the far west of China, according to the state news agency. The attack is the third in nine days against Chinese security forces in the Xinjiang region, which is home to the Uighurs, a Muslim ethnic minority. Many Uighurs resent being ruled by ethnic Han Chinese. PAGE A12
National
GOVERNOR WEIGHED IN FOR DUPONT
After Meeting With Its Lawyers
When Gov. Joe Manchin III filed a friend-of-the-court brief in June arguing that the State Supreme Court should review a $382 million judgment against the DuPont Company, it was the first time a West Virginia governor had done so in a case in which the state was not a party. But documents from the governor's office show that he consulted extensively with the company before filing the brief and that his executive assistant is a former DuPont employee who once worked on the same case before leaving the company. PAGE A14
FREEZE ON BUS COMPANY APPROVALS
The federal government froze all approvals for new bus companies because a fatal crash in Texas last Friday exposed a flaw in regulations that allows banned companies to start doing business again under new names. The agency ordinarily approves about 100 carriers a month. Federal officials said the bus that crashed belonged to a man whose previous bus company had been shut down for safety violations. PAGE A14
PANEL FINDS DISCRIMINATION AT GYM
Nevada's civil rights panel found that a health club discriminated against men by charging them more for membership than it charged women. The panel's finding could also affect the ability of casino-resort operators to offer different prices for men and women at nightclubs and other attractions. PAGE A17
NAVY AGREES TO SONAR RESTRICTION
The Navy agreed in a settlement to limit where it operates certain sonar systems criticized by environmentalists who say it hurts the ability of whales and other marine mammals to find food and avoid predators. The settlement restricts the Navy's use of low-frequency sonar to military training areas near Hawaii and in the western Pacific Ocean. PAGE A19
CITIZEN JOURNALIST RAKES THE MUCK
After public denials, Mayor C. Ray Nagin of New Orleans conceded that there were ''documentation issues'' and ''discrepancies'' in a program meant to help rebuild his scarred city. At the center of the controversy is Karen Gadbois, above, a blogger whose persistence led her to discover that something was amiss in the remediation program. PAGE A14
BUSINESS
A YEAR AFTER UPHEAVAL BEGAN,
Securities Market Still Jammed
A year after financial tremors first shook Wall Street, a crucial artery of modern money management -- the market for securitization, through which mortgages and other debts are packaged and sold as securities -- remains broken. And until that conduit is fixed or replaced, analysts say, borrowers will see interest rates continue to rise even as availability worsens for home mortgages, student loans, auto loans and commercial mortgages. PAGE C1
CNN TO DOUBLE DOMESTIC PRESENCE
CNN announced that it would assign journalists to 10 cities across the United States, a move that will double the number of domestic cities where the cable news network has outposts. But the journalists will not work from expensive bureaus -- rather, they will borrow office space from local news stations and use laptops to file stories for the Internet and TV. PAGE C1
KING OF THE ROAD NO LONGER
Once the pride of Detroit, sport utility vehicles are piling up in dealers' lots, prompting automakers to offer some of their largest discounts ever -- $10,000 or more on some -- just to get rid of them. The automakers say they need the space for the fuel-efficient cars consumers are clamoring for. PAGE C1
CORPORATIONS FAILED TO PAY TAXES
Two out of every three United States corporations paid no federal income taxes from 1998 through 2005, according to a report by the Government Accountability Office. The study, which is likely to fuel a debate among politicians and policy experts over the contribution of businesses to Treasury coffers, did not identify the corporations or analyze why they paid no taxes. PAGE C3
New York Report
IT DEPENDS ON WHAT
You Mean by 'Demolish'
A state agency has proposed a change in rules related to rent-stabilized housing, in which property owners can evict tenants if a building is slated for demolition. But at a contentious public hearing in Lower Manhattan including tenants and owners, it seemed that neither side cared for the state's definition of ''demolition.'' PAGE B5
RANGEL TOUTS HOUSING DEAL
At a press event in Harlem, Representative Charles B. Rangel announced the preservation of almost 400 federally subsidized apartments. What did not come up, however, were the rent-stabilized apartments that the congressman has kept at a luxury building nearby or of the Congressional ethics inquiry he has sought about whether the arrangement was proper. PAGE B1
Arts
BEHIND THE SCENES
In an Era of Tumult
When historians discuss the 1960s, they tend to spend a lot of time on all the sex, drugs and rock 'n' roll. Less ink is spilled on the crafters of a huge wave of social and economic legislation. Those lesser-known policy makers are the focus of the book ''The Liberal Hour,'' which Barry Gewen writes ''is a valuable corrective to a lot of hackneyed thinking about the significance of the '60s.'' PAGE E2
MOVIE TYPES SKEWERING HOLLYWOOD
''Tropic Thunder,'' the new film written and directed by and starring Ben Stiller, features Robert Downey Jr. in blackface, an unrecognizable Tom Cruise as a Jewish caricature and more than a few jokes about the mentally disabled. And yet, as Manohla Dargis writes, it saves most of its contempt for the machinery of movies: the stars, makers and even die-hard fans. PAGE E1 WALKING IN THE WEST BANK
The Arabic word sarha means ''to roam freely, at will, without restraint.'' That ethos informs Raja Shehadeh's ''Palestinian Walks: Forays Into a Vanishing Landscape,'' an account of six walks in the West Bank, which recently won Britain's pre-eminent award for political writing. And because of the region's politics, those walks are increasingly fraught. PAGE E1
Dining
LOS ANGELES SEEKS TO REGULATE
Fast Food in Certain Areas
If the Los Angeles City Council gets its way, residents of some of the city's poorer neighborhoods are going to have to travel quite a bit if they're craving fast food, because of a moratorium, part of a city plan to combat obesity. But the language of the law leaves much open to interpretation, and vendors of healthier fast food made from high-quality ingredients are worried they'll get swept along in the tide. Page F1
THE ART OF THE NOODLE
Austere. Unaffected. Matsugen is a restaurant serving exclusively Japanese fare in a way that evokes the feeling of dining in Japan. And that's not a coincidence. Deliberately avoiding obvious menu choices like the ubiquitous California roll, the restaurant devotes half its menu to soba, a buckwheat noodle prepared in three categories of weight and texture, writes Frank Bruni. Page F7
SPECIALTY ROASTERS ON THE MOVE
Contrary to most New Yorkers' belief that their city is the center of the universe, most of the world's most respected coffee roasters have been elsewhere. But that is changing, and one of those changes was carried in a U-Haul from Portland, Ore. Stumptown Coffee Roasters is expecting to open its roastery in Red Hook, Brooklyn. It is not alone. Intelligentsia Coffee Roasters and Tea Traders from Chicago is eyeing a move to SoHo. So, New Yorkers, take heart. The city might not be the center of the universe yet, but it is getting closer. Page F5
Sports
WITH LOTS OF MONEY AND TRAINING,
Age Is Just a Number
At age 41, Dara Torres is still an elite athlete who can compete at the highest levels. Exercise physiologists say the conventional wisdom about age and sports is more urban legend than fact, and there are likely to be more Dara Torreses in the future -- because of an infusion of money into many sports, combined with improvements in sports medicine and training. PAGE D1
WHY ALL THE EMPTY SEATS?
In Beijing, Olympic organizers had hoped to provide every athlete the thrill of filled arenas and provide television cameras with unending views of cheering faces. But while the events are supposedly sold out and many athletes have been thrilled to compete in front of far more fans than they are accustomed to, most venues have been about three-quarters full, with a few filled to barely half of capacity. PAGE D6
U.S. BOXING REELING AFTER LOSSES
Once a boxing superpower, the United States has had a turbulent Olympic outing. USA Boxing sent nine boxers to the Summer Games. After four days of competition, five remain. Among the eliminated was Rau'shee Warren, the reigning flyweight world champion and the team's best hope of winning gold. PAGE D1
REMAINING UPBEAT AFTER INJURY
Ten years ago, Sang Lan was a 17-year-old competing at the Goodwill Games in New York. During a routine warm-up vault, Sang landed on her head and sustained a spinal injury that left her paralyzed from the chest down. A decade later, she is a college graduate and news media figure, a symbol of gymnastics' inherent danger and of spirited resilience in the face of catastrophic disability. PAGE D5
Obituaries
ALEXANDER SLOBODYANIK, 65
The Ukrainian pianist made his Carnegie Hall debut in 1968 in a solo recital, and earned stardom in the former Soviet Union with his virtuosity and emotional interpretations of Romantic composers. He had been a concert pianist and in-demand teacher since moving to the United States in 1989. PAGE B6
BERTRAND CASTELLI, 78
The executive producer of the original Broadway production of ''Hair,'' he was not a familiar name, but he was known as a world-class bon vivant, a painter, a screenwriter, a balletomane and a choreographer. PAGEB6
AURELIUS H. PIPER SR., 92
The hereditary chief of the Golden Hill Paugussett Indian Tribe since 1959, he was known as Big Eagle, was named chief and assumed responsibility for the tribe's quarter-acre reservation in Trumbull. He served on boards and commissions throughout Connecticut, fighting for the rights of American Indians and other minorities. PAGE B6
Editorial
AN ENDANGERED ACT
The Bush administration has never masked its distaste for most environmental laws or its ambitions to thwart Congress's will. Now in its waning months, it is trying to undermine the Endangered Species Act. Page A20
MR. MUKASEY IN DENIAL
On Tuesday, Attorney General Michael Mukasey described the shameful politicization of the Justice Department as a ''painful'' episode in which ''the system failed.'' He conveniently made no mention of the role played by members of President Bush's inner circle. Page A20
DAY LABORERS AND HOME DEPOT
Los Angeles's proposed ordinance to require more orderly hiring sites for day laborers is a small measure that makes a huge amount of sense. Page A20
Op-Ed
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
On July 30, the Senate voted for the eighth time in the last year on a bill that would have extended the investment tax credits for installing solar energy and the production tax credits for building wind turbines. But a core of Republican senators who either don't want to give Democrats a victory or simply don't believe in renewable energy won't approve the bill. Page A21
OLIVIA JUDSON
The coming school year will see more fights over the teaching of evolution and whether intelligent design, or even biblical accounts of creation, have a place in America's classrooms. Well, evolution should be central to beginning biology classes for at least three reasons. Page A21
TEXT THE VOTE
Barack Obama has been savvy with his use of text messages in his campaign. In an Op-Ed article, Garrett M. Graff writes that cellphone messages could be the presumptive Democratic nominee's secret weapon in November. Page A21

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (A3, A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); ARRESTS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (75%); POLITICS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); CITY LIFE (73%); MOUNTAINS (71%); ETHNICITY (71%); GOVERNORS (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (67%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (64%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (64%); ETHNIC GROUPS (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); LAWYERS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%)

PERSON: MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); JOE MANCHIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAGOS, NIGERIA (92%) KASHMIR (92%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); XINJIANG, CHINA (73%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (73%) CHINA (94%); NIGERIA (94%); ZIMBABWE (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); INDIA (92%); ASIA (92%); AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2011



313 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Mechanism For Credit Is Still Stuck

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
A year after financial tremors first shook Wall Street, a crucial artery of modern money management remains broken. And until that conduit is fixed or replaced, analysts say borrowers will see interest rates continue to rise even as availability worsens for home mortgages, student loans, auto loans and commercial mortgages.
The conduit, the market for securitization, through which mortgages and other debts are packaged and sold as securities, has become sclerotic and almost totally dependent on government support. The problems, intensified by bond investors who have grown leery of these instruments, have been a drag on the economy and have persisted despite the exercise of extraordinary regulatory powers by policy makers. 
''The mortgage finance system in the United States has been badly damaged,'' said Anthony Lembke, co-head of investments at MKP Capital Management, a hedge fund firm that is a big investor in mortgages. ''There is definitely some reinvention that will need to occur, and that will include some explicit involvement by the government.''
Bond investors first stopped buying private home mortgage deals, then shunned commercial mortgages. Now, they are becoming wary of credit card debts and auto loans. In the first half, private securitizations reached just $131 billion, down sharply from $1 trillion in the same period last year, according to data compiled by Thomson Reuters.
Some analysts say investors are acting like the ''bond vigilantes'' of the 1980s and early 1990s. Those traders drove a surge in interest rates because they feared inflation and a mounting federal budget deficit.
''The bond vigilantes took law and order in their own hands and pushed yields up, which would slow down the economy and bring down inflation,'' said Edward E. Yardeni, an investment strategist who is credited with coining the term. ''This time the bond credit vigilantes are refusing to go into the saloon and start drinking what Wall Street's financial engineers are mixing.''
For their part, bond traders say that the weakening economy is making it harder for them to invest with confidence because even areas like auto loans, credit cards and commercial mortgages that once seemed secure now look vulnerable. They are also worried that demand for the securities they trade in will be weaker in the future as banks, brokerage firms and other investors are forced to sell.
Their reluctance to invest implies that credit, whether for businesses that want to expand or people who want to buy homes, will remain tight. That concern was underscored by the Federal Reserve's most recent survey of loan officers, which on Monday showed that most domestic banks had tightened lending standards and that demand for loans had weakened in the second quarter.
The pullback is compounded by a continued rise in interest rates despite the Fed's efforts to grease the wheels of finance by gradually slashing its benchmark rate to 2 percent, down from 5.25 percent last August. The average interest rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage climbed to 6.7 percent last week, from 5.89 percent in the spring.
''It appears that every time we peel away this onion, there is another layer,'' said Curtis D. Ishii, the senior investment officer for fixed income at Calpers, the large California pension fund. He added that investors were starting to realize that the pain in the credit market would persist for some time.
One measure of that stress is found in falling home prices. ''To the extent that home prices keep spiraling down, the need for capital keeps increasing,'' said Alejandro H. Aguilar, a portfolio manager at American Century Investments, the mutual fund company. Investors will be able to better estimate the size of their losses once it becomes clear how far prices will fall and when they will hit bottom.
As they wait for the housing market to recover, many investors have continued to rush to safe havens like Treasuries and other debts with a government backing or a short payoff, a sign that investors remain unwilling to invest in mortgages, even though lending standards have improved from the go-go days of the housing boom.
Money market funds, the short-term cash alternatives, grew to $2.9 trillion in June, up from $2.1 trillion a year ago, according to Crane Data. Those funds, in turn, have more than tripled their holdings of Treasuries and other government debt while reducing the share of their portfolios invested in somewhat riskier corporate notes.
Patrick Ledford, chief investment officer at the Reserve, one of the nation's largest operators of money market funds, said some institutional investors had moved assets into government funds from broader money market funds to avoid exposure to commercial paper, which are short-term debts.
Some of the slack in the credit market has been taken up by the government chartered mortgage finance companies Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae. The three firms have securitized $692 billion in home mortgages through June, putting them on track to match, approximately, the $1.2 trillion they securitized in 2007, according to Inside Mortgage Finance, a financial trade publication.
But prices for these securities have fallen in the last two months, despite the backing of the government companies and initiatives by Congress and the Treasury to create a stronger government safety net for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
The two companies, which reported big losses last week, have said that they might reduce or slow the amount of large loans they buy from banks, a signal that two giants that had been big buyers might become sellers. If so, that would lower the price of mortgage securities even more, raising the cost of borrowing for home buyers.
Because those developments have damped the private mortgage market, the Treasury Department has sought to revive activity by encouraging the use of covered bonds, which have been a popular investment in Europe.
Unlike a mortgage security, the home loans that back a covered bond stay on the issuing bank's balance sheet. If loans default, banks replace them, making the bonds less risky to investors but more so to the banks. In July, four big banks -- Bank of America, Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo &#151; said they would issue covered bonds.
But before jumping in wholesale, investors say they want to know more about the quality of loans backing the bonds and see more detailed federal rules about how the bonds will be handled if banks fail.
''It may be a step in the right direction,'' said Daniel O. Shackelford, a bond portfolio manager at T. Rowe Price, the mutual fund firm. ''But I am not sure it will solve all the problems.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Credit Pains: The packaging of mortgages and other debts into securities by investment banks has slowed significantly. Some of the slack has been picked up by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae, the government-sponsored companies.(Source: Thomson Reuters, Inside Mortgage Finance) Chart details bar graph for each.(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BUDGETS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SECURITIZATION (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); STUDENT LOANS (72%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); HEDGE FUNDS (53%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2011



314 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: Files Show Governor Intervened With Court

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

 BODY:
When Gov. Joe Manchin III of West Virginia filed a friend-of-the-court brief in June arguing that the State Supreme Court should review a $382 million judgment against the DuPont Company, he said he was not taking sides, but acting in the interest of due process.
 Documents from the governor's office, however, show that Mr. Manchin had consulted with the company before filing the brief, and DuPont officials say the governor even asked them to provide him with a draft brief.
 The case involves thousands of residents in and around Spelter, W.Va., where DuPont operated a zinc-smelting plant. Last October, a jury in Harrison County ruled that DuPont deliberately endangered those residents by dumping toxic arsenic, cadmium and lead at the plant. 
 In the largest civil penalty ever levied against DuPont, the court ordered the company to pay nearly $382 million to monitor nearly 8,000 residents in the area for signs of cancer, to clean up the site and pay punitive damages.
 On June 24, the company appealed to the State Supreme Court. Mr. Manchin, a Democrat in his first term who is up for re-election in November, filed his brief the same day, pressing the court to consider the case. (The court went into summer recess without indicating whether it would hear the appeal.) 
 It was the first time a West Virginia governor had taken such action in a case in which the state was not a party, one expert said, and Mr. Manchin's actions angered plaintiffs, who argued that the executive branch was inappropriately pressuring the judicial branch.
 The governor's spokesman said that Mr. Manchin only wanted to ensure that cases involving punitive damages received a full airing from the Supreme Court and that he was not weighing in on behalf of DuPont. 
 But new documents reveal a more complicated picture.
 On June 2, the governor met with the vice president of DuPont and one of the company's lawyers to discuss the brief, according to records of the meetings obtained through the Freedom of Information Act. 
 The governor also spoke on the phone with DuPont's chairman and chief executive, Charles O. Holliday Jr., on Nov. 20, 2007, less than a month after the verdict, according to the documents. 
 Shortly before the governor filed his brief, DuPont lawyers provided his office with two draft briefs that made many of the same arguments he later used in his brief, documents show. 
 The day Mr. Manchin filed the brief, his office also requested assistance by e-mail from DuPont with the procedural requirements for filing. 
 When questioned by the plaintiff's lawyers about DuPont's draft brief, the governor's office said that some of the e-mail correspondence between the company and his office had been erased, according to documents from the governor's office.
 In an interview, however, Carte Goodwin, Mr. Manchin's lawyer, said that ''any e-mails of note'' between DuPont and the governor's office had been preserved and turned over to the plaintiff's lawyers. Mr. Goodwin also said that, as often happens, the draft brief from DuPont came to the governor's office unsolicited. 
 Mr. Goodwin, in an e-mail message, said Mr. Manchin, in his brief, had raised ''a purely legal and technical question that is important to the citizens of this state.''
 Mr. Goodwin added, ''The governor neither opines on the underlying merits of the case nor argues for the reversal or modification of the jury's verdict.''
 But a DuPont spokesman, Daniel A. Turner, said in an e-mail message that it was the governor who had asked DuPont to provide a draft brief. 
 Mr. Turner said DuPont simply wanted ''a full and fair Supreme Court review of the trial court outcome,'' and to that end, the company also asked the West Virginia State Medical Association in April to file a brief on DuPont's behalf, which the association did. 
 ''Like any organization, DuPont is entitled to raise issues of public concern with public officials,'' Mr. Turner said.
 The documents from the governor's office also reveal overlap between Mr. Manchin's staff and DuPont.
 Mr. Manchin's executive assistant, Peggy Ong, is a former DuPont employee. While there, Ms. Ong was involved with the company's handling of the Spelter case and its conducting community outreach regarding the contaminated site, according to company documents. 
 Moreover, Mr. Goodwin's former law firm, Goodwin & Goodwin, was hired by DuPont as a consultant in the Spelter case.
 Mr. Goodwin dismissed the connections, explaining that his former firm had played a minor role in advising DuPont and that Ms. Ong, as Mr. Manchin's secretary, was not involved with policy.
 The case started in 2004 after 10 property owners in Spelter sued DuPont, based in Delaware, and T.L. Diamond & Company, a metal concern based in New York, over claims that the companies had deliberately dumped dangerous heavy metals on the industrial site, permitting it to seep into the surrounding communities.
 Last year, the State Supreme Court refused to hear an appeal of a $404 million verdict against NiSource and Chesapeake Energy. Chesapeake cited the decision in May when it shelved plans for a $35 million regional headquarters in Charleston, West Virginia's capital.
 This year, Forbes ranked West Virginia last among states with a business-friendly environment, and some residents saw the governor's action as a welcome effort to rein in trial lawyers.
 ''The last thing West Virginia needs is another way to be out of the mainstream when it comes to business and the jobs business brings,'' said an editorial in one of the state's largest newspapers, The Daily Mail in Charleston. ''West Virginia needs to look at these questions, which clearly do affect its business climate.''
 Craig Skaggs, a former DuPont lobbyist from West Virginia, said he believed that the Spelter penalties were too high and that the ruling would hurt business in the state. But he added he was surprised that, even in a small state like West Virginia, DuPont would try to get the governor involved. 
 ''I would never have done that,'' Mr. Skaggs said. 
 The revelations of Mr. Manchin's involvement in the DuPont case come against a backdrop of larger concerns raised recently about the independence of the state's legal system. In the last year, two Supreme Court justices have come under scrutiny for ties to company executives that had cases pending before the court.
 Prof. Stephen Gillers, who teaches legal ethics at New York University School of Law, said it was unusual and inappropriate for the governor, instead of the attorney general, to get involved in such a case, and that after searching state court records, he could find no example of a similar intervention by a governor. 
 ''It is not part of the court's responsibility to consider the effect of the verdict on the economic climate,'' Professor Gillers said. ''Consequently, the governor should not be justifying his intervention or asking the court in this indirect way to consider the case for this reason.''
 One plaintiff, Carolyn Holbert of Erie, called the governor's actions ''a total betrayal.'' 
 Ms. Holbert, 62, a retired switchboard operator whose back porch looks out onto the Spelter site and who grew up just miles from the plant, said that an aunt, an uncle and three of six siblings had died from cancer.
 ''The governor says he is not taking sides,'' Ms. Holbert said. ''But he is helping DuPont drag its feet, and people are dying while they wait for help.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Carolyn Holbert, a plaintiff in a DuPont case, called Gov. Joe Manchin III's actions a betrayal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB SHAW FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
DuPont was ordered to pay $382 million for dumping dangerous metals at its plant in Spelter, W.Va. Gov. Joe Manchin III asked the State Supreme Court to consider the company's appeal. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, LEFT, BOB SHAW FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BOB BIRD/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (91%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); APPEALS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); DAMAGES (88%); DUE PROCESS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); MISC NONFERROUS SMELTING & REFINING (75%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: E I DU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO (93%)

TICKER: DUPP (PAR) (93%); DD (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (93%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (93%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (93%)

PERSON: JOE MANCHIN (91%); CHARLES O HOLLIDAY JR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2008



315 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: The Race Factor in the Election

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Racism and the Race,'' by Charles M. Blow (column, Aug. 9):
 Mr. Blow's analysis of the effect of racism in the presidential election is only half right. There is surely a generic racist vote, but this is much less important than candidate-specific racism. 
 Some African-Americans are widely admired by most whites. From 1998 until 2004, Colin L. Powell was the most admired person in public life. Since 2005, Condoleezza Rice has been the most popular member of this administration. 
 Tiger Woods (and before him, Michael Jordan) is the most popular sports star. 
 And Oprah Winfrey has been the most popular television personality for four of the last five years. 
 Until the Jeremiah Wright story broke, and the spurious reports that Barack Obama was a Muslim began to circulate, Mr. Obama triggered remarkably little racist hostility.
 The size of the racist vote against him in November, by people who might otherwise have voted Democratic, will depend on how he and those who oppose him handle the issue over the next 10 weeks.
 Humphrey Taylor Chairman, The Harris Poll Harris Interactive New York, Aug. 11, 2008
 To the Editor:
 This year's presidential race is frequently said to be a referendum on Barack Obama. That may be true, but only partly so.
 In light of Charles M. Blow's column and the statistics he cites (19 percent of white voters agreed that most of the people they know would not vote for a black presidential candidate), I think that it would be more accurate to say this year's election is a referendum on the racial attitudes of white voters. 
 In any case, the elephant in the living room of American society is finally getting noticed.
 Alan B. Anderson Bowling Green, Ky. Aug. 10, 2008
 To the Editor:
 We're not even through to the nominating conventions, and preparations are already being made to explain a possible loss by Senator Barack Obama in November: white racism that may be ''expressed in the privacy of the voting booth.''
 Perhaps what will be expressed in the voting booth will be a reluctance to vote for a candidate of any race whose policies tilt further to the left than the American mainstream and whose leadership experience is arguably limited to running a presidential campaign.
 If we're gearing up to make this election about race, let's also be clear-eyed about other issues that are of far more importance to the vast majority of voters.
 Stuart Gottlieb New York, Aug. 9, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Charles M. Blow has hit the nail on its head. The undercurrents of racism are abundantly reflected in this survey as well as clearly exemplified in the recent Democratic primaries.
 Barack Obama will have a difficult time obtaining the important white independent votes, and any misstep on his part (or successful misinformation on the Republicans' part) could cost him the election.
 Racism is an unsavory topic, one that ''we white guys'' choose to avoid, yet it resonates now as it has in the past, as it will in the future, and it is high time that we confront it head on.
 But if we haven't evolved far enough to elect a black president, maybe, just maybe, we could elect one who is half white and half black -- a sort of easing in on our collective racial unconscious. 
 David Kelly Gwin New York, Aug. 9, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Charles M. Blow is right and Hillary Rodham Clinton was right: racism is still a malignant evil in America. Many people still believe that black people are intellectually inferior to white people and thus deserve the lowest economic and social standing in America. 
 Nevertheless, what Mr. Blow implies and what Mrs. Clinton strongly implied is wrong: racism will not determine who will be the next president. Intelligence will.
 Barack Obama's intelligence is undeniable. Inherent even in all the charges that he is ''arrogant'' and ''egotistical'' is a reluctant acknowledgment that he is highly intelligent. 
 Moreover, as the general election surges on, it will become increasingly obvious how far more intelligent and wise Senator Obama is than Senator John McCain.
 To win this election by either a narrow or a wide margin, Mr. Obama, through his abundant faith, wisdom and intelligence, just needs to offer Americans powerful solutions to our most critical problems.
 Leon Green Las Vegas, Aug. 9, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ERIC HANSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); RACE & RACISM (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); REFERENDUMS (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); SPORTS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); ATHLETES (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (56%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (56%); TIGER WOODS (54%); OPRAH WINFREY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOWLING GREEN, KY, USA (53%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2008



316 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 486 words

 BODY:
CYBER ASSAULT Internet experts in the United States said attacks on Georgia's cyberspace infrastructure began weeks before shooting started between Georgia and Russia. 
 IN NEED OF REPAIR The market through which mortgages are packaged and sold as securities has become damaged, and analysts say interest rates will continue to rise until it is fixed. [C1.] 
 BOUNTIFUL HARVEST The Department of Agriculture is forecasting the second-highest corn yield on record with production of 12.3 billion bushels; the soybean crop is forecast for a harvest of 2.97 billion bushels, much better than many had expected in June. [C1.]
 UNDERWATER Countless car owners are driving vehicles worth less than the balance on their car loans, and like desperate homeowners, the sellers of S.U.V.'s are having to cut asking prices. [C1.]
 Rick Wagoner, the chief executive of General Motors, is expected to announce an expansion of the Detroit automaker's production of small cars at its plant east of Bangkok. [C7.]
 DIGITAL JOURNALISTS CNN said it would add journalists using laptops and cellphone cameras in 10 cities across the United States to provide more nimble TV and online news coverage. [C1.]
 EASING VOLATILITY A temporary Securities and Exchange Commission rule that made it harder to short some financial stocks might have helped curb short sales. Market Place. [C1.]
 DRUGSTORE ACQUISITION CVSCaremark said it would buy Longs Drug Stores for $2.54 billion to expand its reach in the western United States. [C2.]
 TAX INQUIRY About two-thirds of corporations operating in the United States did not pay income taxes from 1998 to 2005, according to the Government Accountability Office. [C3.]
 UBS REVAMPS UBS, the Swiss banking giant, announced that it was reorganizing into three distinct businesses after reporting a large quarterly loss and $5.1 billion in write-downs. [C3.]
 BRANDED FILM A documentary about truck drivers is being underwritten by a division of the Navistar International Corporation to help promote a new truck. Advertising: Stuart Elliot. [C3.]
 TRADE GAP DECLINES The United States trade deficit narrowed in June, helped by strong exports of manufactured goods and by Americans spending less. [C4.]
 EARNINGS TUMBLE ThomsonReuters said second-quarter profit fell 54 percent on costs related to the $15.9 billion combination of two of the biggest financial news and data providers. [C4.]
 A MORTGAGE BRIGHT SPOT Financing for multifamily housing is starting to pay off for the beleaguered mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. [C5.]
 SEEKING ALTERNATIVES When the real estate market comes to a halt, many developers wait out the downturn while trying to add value to their property by getting it rezoned. [C6.]
 PROFIT AT RETAILER TJX, the owner of the T.J. Maxx and Marshalls retail chains, said its profit more than tripled in the second quarter as cash-strapped consumers sought bargains. [C6.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CROP PRODUCTION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RETAILERS (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (88%); JOURNALISM (87%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (77%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); AGRICULTURE (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); AUTOMAKERS (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (74%); HOME PRICES (74%); TRUCK DRIVERS (74%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (74%); ZONING (73%); EXPORT PRICES (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); WRITERS (72%); MOVIE FILMING (71%); CORN FARMING (71%); SOYBEAN FARMING (71%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); COMPANY LOSSES (69%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (67%); EXPORT TRADE (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); INCOME TAX (64%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (62%); EXECUTIVES (53%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); NAVISTAR INTERNATIONAL CORP (81%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (61%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); CVS CAREMARK CORP (54%); T J MAXX (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: NAV (NYSE) (81%); GM (NYSE) (56%); CVS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (81%); NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (54%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (54%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2008



317 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Sunnier Forecast for Corn and Soybean Harvest

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
After a worrisome start to the growing season that fanned fears of food shortages and huge economic losses, the nation's most important crop is now on track for a bountiful harvest, the government said Tuesday.
 The Department of Agriculture is forecasting the second-highest corn yield on record with production of 12.3 billion bushels, about 600 million bushels more than it had expected earlier in the summer. 
 ''We dodged a bullet,'' said Bill Nelson, a Wachovia grains analyst. 
 As cool weather in April and downpours in May gave way to widespread flooding in June, prospects seemed miserable for corn. That crop has long been the most important feed used in meat production, and in recent years it has increased in importance as ethanol made from corn has become a government-mandated gasoline additive. 
 Many farmers had to replant their washed-out fields; some ran out of time to do so. Food industry groups went to battle with ethanol interests, saying there was not enough corn for both food and fuel. Corn futures prices soared to an unheard-of $8 a bushel, triple the price of a few years ago. 
 Some analysts worried that $9 or even $10 a bushel was possible. That price would probably have been ruinous to livestock producers and ethanol plants alike, although corn farmers would have been in clover. 
 But after the floodwaters receded, nature turned benign. In the Midwest this summer, the weather has been exactly what the tender young corn stalks needed to thrive. ''Not too hot, not too cold, not too wet, not too dry,'' Mr. Nelson said. 
 Corn prices, which have been falling for weeks, settled Tuesday at $5.28 a bushel, up 11 cents.
 The highest corn yield on record was 160.4 bushels an acre in 2004. The new 2008 estimate of 155 bushels is up 3.9 bushels from last year's harvest. Total production will be lower than last year's bumper crop, because farmers planted fewer acres of corn. 
 The soybean crop is slightly more of a question mark, since it was planted even later than corn. The government is forecasting a harvest of 2.97 billion bushels, down about 30 million bushels from its earlier forecasts. But that is much better than many had expected in June.
 Palle Pedersen, an agronomist at Iowa State University in Ames, said it was too early to tell how the soybean crop would turn out in the state, which was hit hardest in the flooding. ''I think the government yield estimates are too high,'' he said. ''A lot of disease is coming in, killing the fields.''
 Soybean futures have also fallen back, although not as much as corn. At the beginning of July, they exceeded $16 a bushel. On Tuesday, they settled at $12.14.
 The jump in commodity prices this year became a major burden on livestock producers and other food industry groups, which began campaigning for relief. But their cause has had two major setbacks in the last month.
 The Agriculture Department decided not to let farmers take land out of conservation programs without penalty, a measure that would have increased production in 2009. Then the Environmental Protection Agency denied a request by the governor of Texas to reduce for one year the mandate on ethanol production. 
 Despite the much-improved prospects for the crops, and thus lower prices for feed, the livestock producers' enthusiasm was muted Tuesday.
 ''The crop report is certainly a good thing,'' a National Chicken Council spokesman, Richard Lobb, said. ''But we're still basically just squeaking through. The federal government seems to be relying on a policy of hoping for good weather, not just this year but in the coming years.''
 Farmers, who are inherently cautious, are not banking on any good news until after the harvest is safely in the silos. The government corn yield estimate of 155 bushels an acre is a dream to some of them.
 Dan Meinhart, a farmer in Effingham, Ill., said the conditions in his area did not reflect the government's optimism. Mr. Meinhart had to replant nearly all his corn and beans after the rains washed them away. He is expecting a corn yield of 130 bushels. The beans do not look great either.
 ''Spanish needles are blooming already, and the old-timers say that means it will frost in six weeks,'' Mr. Meinhart said. ''We need at least eight to 10 weeks to get the crop in.''
 In its report, the government said that corn yields would be higher than last year in the northern and eastern corn belt, but lower in the southern half of the Great Plains because of drought. Soybean yields are projected to be lower in the Midwest, a consequence of the troubles this spring, but higher in most other places.
 The report is based primarily on phone interviews with 29,500 producers. Agriculture Department personnel went back to 8,910 tracts in the Midwest after the floods and did special interviews with farmers about their planted acreage and harvest intentions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Corn crops have rebounded.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER WYNN THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A soybean field near Loves Park, Ill. The government revised its soybean harvest outlook after a gloomier forecast in June.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES)(pg. C4) CHART: Despite Pullback, Higher Prices: Although prices for corn and soybeans have retreated sharply from their recent records, they remain significantly above where they were two years ago.(Source: Bloomberg) Charts detail line graphs for CORN: DOLLARS A BUSHEL and SOYBEANS: DOLLARS A BUSHEL. (pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORN FARMING (91%); AGRICULTURE (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); BIOFUELS (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); CROP PRODUCTION (90%); ETHANOL (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); CORN MARKETS (89%); SOYBEAN FARMING (89%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); FUTURES (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); AGRONOMY (78%); FUEL ADDITIVES (74%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (74%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (72%)

PERSON: BILL NELSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2008



318 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Is Expected to Announce Expansion in Thailand

BYLINE: By THOMAS FULLER

DATELINE: BANGKOK 

 BODY:
The chief executive of General Motors, Rick Wagoner, arrived in Thailand on Tuesday to a decidedly brighter picture than the losses, layoffs and drawn-out overhaul his company is facing in the United States. 
 G.M. sold 35 percent more cars last year in Asia than it did in 2005, riding the wave of Asia's expanding markets. Its market share has also inched up. 
 On Wednesday, Mr. Wagoner is expected to announce an expansion of G.M.'s production of small cars at its plant east of Bangkok and the construction of an engine plant for its Colorado pickup truck, said Hajime Yamamoto, Thailand director for CSM Worldwide, a Detroit-based automotive market forecasting company. 
 This would be good news for Thailand, which has become a hub for car manufacturers serving Southeast Asia, Australia and the Middle East, and is now Asia's third-largest car exporter after Japan and South Korea.
 A G.M. spokesman in Thailand declined to comment on the carmaker's plans, citing Mr. Wagoner's pending announcement. 
 The move would be an indication that G.M. is betting that continued growth in Asia could help ease the contraction in North America, where volume was down 20 percent in the second quarter. Asia, Europe and Latin America are now the bright spots on G.M.'s balance sheet, with the company selling more cars overseas than it does in the United States. 
 ''Asia is front and center in terms of strategy and future direction,'' said John Bonnell, director for forecasting in Asia at J. D. Power & Associates. ''Their big success story is in China. They've built a nice business there.'' 
 Much of Asia remains the home turf of Toyota and other Japanese manufacturers. Although General Motors has increased its market share in Asia, by its own calculations, to nearly 7 percent from 5.9 percent in the last three years, its sales remain small compared with those in North America, where it still makes one of every five cars sold. 
 But G.M.'s smaller stature in Asia and the lack of any legacy costs for pensions and health care have allowed the company to be more nimble in Asia. Using technology from Asian partners, G.M. is aggressively marketing itself as an environmentally aware producer of smaller, more fuel-efficient cars. 
 In increasing production of two compact models here, the Aveo and the Optra, G.M. will be using technology from Daewoo Motor, the South Korean carmaker in which it acquired a controlling stake in 2002, Mr. Yamamoto said.
 ''Most of the models they sell in this region use a Daewoo platform,'' Mr. Yamamoto said.
 ''I wouldn't say they are going to improve their performance dramatically in the coming years,'' he said of G.M. ''But I think they will continue to do better.''
 In Thailand, G.M. has also benefited in the last decade from its partnership with the Japanese truck maker Isuzu, which provided engines for G.M. pickups and gave it access to suppliers. Now that the Isuzu partnership is over -- G.M. divested itself of its stake in the company two years ago -- G.M. will be building engines at the plant scheduled to be announced Wednesday. 
 G.M. has kept costs down in Thailand by cutting the number of expatriate managers to about 10, from 40 earlier in the decade. It has instructed its workers to follow the Japanese formula of kaizen, or continuous improvement, and the plant uses the just-in-time production system. 
 Entry-level workers earn a monthly wage of about 8,000 baht, or $235, at the factory, which exports cars and trucks to Australia and the Middle East in addition to Southeast Asia. 
 G.M. reported a cumulative loss of $10.1 billion for the first half of the year in its North American operations. Its overseas operations, by contrast, earned the company a profit of $1.2 billion, including earnings of $123 million in Asia.
 The pattern is similar at Ford, which reported a loss of $1.3 billion in the second quarter of this year in North America, compared with profit of $388 million in South America, $582 million in Europe and $153 million in Asia and Africa.
 In the last year, Ford has said it would expand its manufacturing capacity in China, Thailand and India for a total investment of $1.5 billion. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); MARKET SHARE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); MOTOR VEHICLE ENGINE MFG (75%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (54%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%) THAILAND (94%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2008



319 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: The '60s: Once Upon an Optimistic Time

BYLINE: By BARRY GEWEN

 BODY:
THE LIBERAL HOUR 
 Washington and the Politics of Change in the 1960s 
 By G. Calvin Mackenzie and Robert Weisbrot 
 Illustrated. 422 pages. The Penguin Press. $29.95. 
 Reading ''The Liberal Hour'' by G. Calvin Mackenzie and Robert Weisbrot, two professors at Colby College, is a bit like standing backstage at the opera and being told that the real action is taking place among the electricians, dressers and stagehands. Too many historians who write about the 1960s, the authors contend, have focused on the decade's very visible rebellions and disruptions -- all that sex, all those drugs, all that rock 'n' roll. 
 What is often ignored, they say, is the hard work of little-known politicians and bureaucrats who were methodically creating a '60s revolution from within. Bob Dylan sang: 
 Come senators, congressmen Please heed the call Don't stand in the doorway Don't block up the hall. 
 But Mr. Dylan was wrong, Mr. Mackenzie and Mr. Weisbrot write. Senators and congressmen weren't blocking up the hall; they were permanently transforming the country with a tsunami of social and economic legislation.
 Granted, it's more fun to read about Abbie Hoffman than about Edmund Muskie, but Mr. Mackenzie and Mr. Weisbrot have a persuasive case to make, and even if much of their story has been told before, their overall argument is a valuable corrective to a lot of hackneyed thinking about the significance of the '60s. 
 The ''liberal hour'' lasted only a few years, from 1963 to 1966, from the final days of John F. Kennedy's presidency through the first three years of Lyndon B. Johnson's, but in that brief period of time came two civil rights acts that remade politics not only in the South but also across the entire country; the unassailable edifices of Medicare and Medicaid; pioneering environmental laws; education and immigration bills; stronger protections for consumers; a host of antipoverty programs, including food stamps and Head Start; new federal departments of transportation and housing and urban development; and other reform measures, literally hundreds. Washington hadn't seen such legislative energy since the New Deal.
 If it was poverty and want that drove the New Deal, it was prosperity that provided the momentum for the '60s, and with it the confidence to take on any challenge. ''In the early years of the 1960s,'' Mr. Mackenzie and Mr. Weisbrot write, ''national optimism reached epidemic levels.'' Inspired by Kennedy's rhetoric and Johnson's acumen, hundreds of inside-the-Beltway role players set about to change their country and the world. 
 Representative of them was the faceless Wilbur J. Cohen, a lifelong government bureaucrat who was a master of social policy. His fingerprints are all over the Medicare and Medicaid legislation. He has been called ''one of the most effective public servants of the 20th century.'' Mr. Mackenzie and Mr. Weisbrot describe him as ''invaluable to the liberal leadership of his era, almost indispensable.''
 Two Republicans were also ''invaluable'' to liberals. The first was Barry Goldwater. Without his disastrous loss in the 1964 presidential election, the Democrats would never have achieved the overwhelming congressional majorities that enabled Johnson to ram through measure after measure. The other was Everett Dirksen, the gravelly voiced, flamboyantly coiffed minority leader of the Senate. A deep-dyed conservative, Dirksen nonetheless rose above party and partisanship to assure the passage of civil rights legislation and other bills favored by Democrats. 
 Expressing a sentiment not commonly heard in Washington these days, Dirksen declared: ''The Senate is a public institution; it must work; it's a two-way street; and that requires the efforts of both parties.''
 With Goldwater's defeat, it seemed that liberals would be on top for a very long time -- enjoying not a liberal hour but a liberal decade, even a liberal century. Yet their moment quickly passed. The Democratic majorities receded in 1966, and in 1968 Richard M. Nixon and George C. Wallace together captured 57 percent of the presidential popular vote. 
 With that election, Mr. Mackenzie and Mr. Weisbrot say, the contours of the nation's politics were set for the next 40 years: ''conservatives ascendant, liberals on the defensive, the broad center of American politics -- where elections are won and lost -- leaning to the right.'' What happened?
 It's not a question that lends itself to easy answers, but insofar as Mr. Mackenzie and Mr. Weisbrot feel they owe their readers a quick takeaway explanation, they come up with a powerful one: liberal overreaching. During the '60s liberals were certain they could solve any problem -- at home or abroad -- with the right expertise, appropriate government policies, the application of reason and gobs of money. 
 ''Do we have or can we develop a knowledge of human social relations that can serve as the basis of rational, 'engineering' control?'' the eminent sociologist Talcott Parsons asked. ''The answer is unequivocally affirmative.'' Officials puffed up with a sense of their own omnipotence spoke of a ''world New Deal.'' Johnson himself exclaimed: ''We're the richest country in the world, the most powerful. We can do it all.'' 
 Such arrogance led directly into the mire and jungles of Vietnam, the prime example of liberal overreaching and the destroyer of Johnson's dreams. Suddenly, Americans were being called upon to make sacrifices, not only of money but also of blood, sacrifices that seemed endless.
 It was little better at home. The legislation of the liberal hour was supposed to end poverty, heal racial divisions. Yet all at once, the cities were going up in flames. The primary beneficiaries of liberal largesse, it seemed, were ungrateful for the assistance, while Democratic leaders looked helpless in the face of riots and rising crime. Great Society solutions weren't working, and so voters turned elsewhere. 
 ''By 1966,'' Mr. Mackenzie and Mr. Weisbrot report, ''more than half of northern whites had come to believe that government was pushing too fast for integration.''
 Johnson had come to grief because, to use Mr. Mackenzie and Mr. Weisbrot's word, he had ''overpromised.'' Not every problem had a solution. Reasoning together didn't work in the urban ghettos or the Mekong Delta. ''The Liberal Hour'' presents itself as a book about the brilliant legislative legacy of the '60s, but by the end it has become a book about the legacy of the Johnson administration's failings. 
 When Mr. Mackenzie and Mr. Weisbrot look closely at the man, what they see is a tragic hero, with a tragic hero's flaws. More optimistic than most of his optimistic countrymen, more confident and overbearing too, Johnson seemed incapable of understanding the virtues of skepticism and caution, the wisdom of pessimism. He never appreciated the limits of good intentions, especially his own. Like many a tragic hero, Johnson was brought down by hubris. And Democrats, Mr. Mackenzie and Mr. Weisbrot tell us, are still paying the price.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: G. Calvin Mackenzie, left, and Robert Weisbrot. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); LIBERALISM (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); WRITERS (76%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); HISTORY (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (71%); HEALTH CARE LAW (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); MEDICARE (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (66%); US PRESIDENTS (63%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (62%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (57%); IMMIGRATION (50%); MEDICAID (50%); CITIES (50%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Liberal Hour, The (Book)>; Liberal Hour, The (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2008



320 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1945 words

HEADLINE: An Insiders' Clubhouse (Apply at the Door)

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
FRAN LEBOWITZ, the New York City society commentator-at-large, tells of dining recently at the Waverly Inn & Garden in Greenwich Village. 
 Her companion was Toni Morrison, the winner of the 1993 Nobel Prize in literature. When the two stepped out onto the sidewalk, the paparazzi who were waiting across Bank Street were stumped. 
 ''Hey, Fran, who are you with?'' they screamed.
 Ms. Lebowitz is a friend of Graydon Carter, an owner of the restaurant -- so much so that her likeness adorns the Edward Sorel mural in the main dining room. Still, she sighed at the state of fame as it relates to restaurant clientele. 
 ''It's Lindsay Lohan they want,'' she said. No worries. Ms. Lohan has been spotted here, too.
 On any given evening the restaurant plays host to some combination of billionaires, movie stars, intellectuals and fashion designers, with a rock icon or sports legend thrown in. In the beginning, they may have been lured by Mr. Carter's estimable connections as editor of Vanity Fair magazine. But now they are as likely to be drawn by Mr. Carter's prowess as a restaurateur.
 His second career, which seemed like a lark, now looks more serious. Last week, he and two partners bought the Monkey Bar from the Glazier Group, which had struggled to make a go of the place for the past few years. The Glazier family has been in the restaurant business in New York for about 25 years; Mr. Carter started operating the Waverly Inn less than two years ago.
 Hearing of the Monkey Bar deal, the restaurateur Keith McNally, who has run his fair share of hot restaurants, gave a nod to Mr. Carter's rise: ''I think Graydon's done an outstanding job,'' he said, ''at paving the way for more restaurateurs to edit magazines.''
 There are still powerful folk who would rather dine uptown at the Four Seasons, Michael's or Le Cirque. But for celebrity power deep enough to lure paparazzi night after night, few outposts in New York today rival the Waverly Inn.
 Patrick McMullan, a party photographer whose work sometimes appears in Vanity Fair, said, ''It is really the only place I can think of right now where they are consistently parked outside.''
 Or as Emil Varda, the restaurant's impeccably mannered managing partner, puts it, ''We have some nights when every table has a guest that is from the pages of 'Who's Who.' ''
 Restaurant reviews have referred to the place as ''Graydon's private club,'' but the high-wattage crowd actually means that it is much less of a clubby, let's get drunk, swap tables and occasionally throw a punch kind of a place than Elaine's was in its day.
 ''It is not a glad-handing, table-hopping place at all,'' Mr. Carter said.
 Edward Menicheschi, Vanity Fair's publisher, who eats there several times a week, has his own description:
 ''It is theater,'' he said, ''only there is no line between actors and audience.''
 In fall of 2006, the Waverly Inn began seating guests. Almost two years later, in what is becoming a long-running inside gag, the place is still not officially open. The phone number doesn't work and ''preview'' is printed defiantly on the top of the menu. Clearly amused by his own cheekiness, Mr. Carter says he does not know when that will change. ''Oh, we're still trying to work the bugs out,'' he said.
 Of course, it is all part of the game of calibrating accessibility. So far the balance is exquisite.
 One editor tells a story of trying to get into Elaine's during its heyday as arbiter of in-ness in the 1970s. Elaine Kaufman, the restaurant's owner, gatekeeper and, often, its bouncer, greeted the editor at the door herself and blocked the way into the restaurant, even though it was an off hour and the editor could see that nearly every table was unoccupied. ''We are full,'' Ms. Kaufman explained. 
 Ms. Kaufman, 79 and now four decades into owning a restaurant that still attracts its share of names, says such stories were never true -- except that she did throw a trash can at the paparazzi. ''I live off the energy of real people,'' she said. 
 Mr. Carter, too, insists that he is a man of the people, saying that his place ''will seat just about anybody.'' 
 Insiders just call Mr. Carter's office directly but it is in fact possible to drop by the reservations desk at the restaurant and book a table for those netherworld hours before 6:30 or after 11:15 p.m., and on weekends from June through August. (The desk takes reservations for dinner, the only time the restaurant is open, just three days ahead.)
 Mr. Carter, who lives on Bank Street and likes to pretend that Greenwich Village is still a little Bohemia, has made a special point of being nice to the locals. This includes the decision to store the garbage in a refrigerated room overnight so that it can be picked up at the civilized hour of 10 a.m., instead of the usual 2 a.m. 
 Marilyn Dorato, president of the local block association and the owner of a brownstone right next to the Waverly Inn, said that in the beginning the neighborhood's biggest complaints was about limos double-parked and idling, but that the security firm the restaurant hired has greatly improved that situation.
 As for Mr. Carter's claim that his neighbors are welcome, she says that is true. ''I see locals there all the time,'' she said. She should know; she eat there once a week herself, at the same table.
 Mr. Carter and other insiders describe the cast of regulars -- known to staff members as ''friends and family'' -- roughly as follows:
 Mr. Carter's four grown children; Ronald O. Perelman, the billionaire; the Waverly's landlord and his children; Barry Diller, the media mogul; two dozen neighbors who live within a radius of two blocks; Robert De Niro and Gwyneth Paltrow, the actors; Mr. Carter's next-door neighbors, the fashion designers Calvin Klein and Donna Karan, often together; and a sprinkling of writers and editors from the Conde Nast empire. 
 And while Mr. Varda insists the restaurant is too small to keep empty tables available, there always seems to be space for regulars, especially regulars of a certain heft. The film producer Harvey Weinstein, for example, lives nearby and, according to Mr. Varda, frequently arrives for dinner without calling ahead to reserve. ''He is family,'' Mr. Varda said, ''so we make room anyway.''
 That said, Mr. Carter, who remains intimately involved in the room's nightly seating plan, does have a view of who is not welcome.
 He said he tried to avoid ''any stars of reality TV and hedge fund managers. For that reason, we screen calls from the 203 area code,'' he said, poking fun at chateau country in the Connecticut suburbs.
 That's not all: ''I don't like people who are rude to our waiters,'' he said. And he is keeping track. 
 The reservations system has miniprofiles on clients: the number of times they have eaten at the restaurant, (Mr. Menicheschi, the publisher, supposedly is near the top of the list with more than 200 meals) whether they complained about the food, whether they yelled at a waiter or ever wrote an unflattering word about Mr. Carter. No, not really on the last one. 
 Has anyone been blacklisted? Mr. Carter won't say, but Mr. Varda admits that there is one group. ''B-list stars who call the paparazzi from inside the restaurant,'' he said. ''They are not invited back.'' (Privacy is so sacred at the Waverly that Mr. Varda says he has stopped a major film star from photographing his own family at dinner.) Also, waiters have been dismissed for being overly attentive to celebrities.
 The Waverly, as observers are fond of pointing out, is the very sort of establishment that Mr. Carter would have happily eviscerated when he co-edited the humor magazine ''Spy'' two decades ago. If the magazine had published one of its snidely annotated seating charts for the Waverly, it would have had three clear zones: the bar, the main dining room and the garden room, otherwise known as ''Siberia.''
 There is also a tiny outside area out front with tables in summer, but that is irrelevant -- one frequent diner called it ''tragic.''
 At the entrance to the brownstone is the bar, which acts as a collection and filtration system. It is here that the treatment is roughest and least predictable. After 9 p.m. it is also jammed with leggy model types and junior investment bankers (their bosses being home in Connecticut). The average age here is about 20 years younger than in the main room.
 That is, except for the bartenders, who appear to have been mixing drinks since the Boer War. The good news is that they are exceptional with a litchi martini. The bad news is that they are accountable to no one. There are six stools at the bar and even when one comes open it may be reserved for a preferred customer.
 The dining area is a different story. Mr. Carter likes to say, ''It's not all that easy to get in, but once you are, we try to treat you like royalty.'' 
 Royalty is a bit of an exaggeration, but this reporter got in simply by asking at the front desk and found service mostly attentive. Although on another visit, she and a friend did have to flag waiters to get wine glasses refilled.
 And there is still the problem of the covered garden in the back, open year round, which Mr. Carter and Mr. Varda continue to insist is as good a place as any to sit.
 No one is buying it. Hamilton South, a former Vanity Fair editor who now runs his own public relations firm, said Siberia is not that bad because the restaurant is so small.
 ''It is Siberia, but it is only five minutes from Beverly Hills, and you pass through Beverly Hills to be seated,'' and, he noted, on the way to the restrooms.
 However, Mr. South, who says he eats at the Waverly Inn twice a month, feels compelled to add, ''I've never been seated there.''
 The central dining room is dark and low. The amber lighting, which is very flattering, particularly to aging faces, gives the whole room a perpetual ambiance of fall or winter, a complement to the menu, which includes creamed spinach and chicken pot pie even in August. The chef, John DeLucie, does have some more modern offerings, like quinoa risotto with green curry sauce. Mr. Varda says this was added at the request of the rap impresario Russell Simmons, another regular customer and a vegan.
 The food is beside the point. The question is theater. Center stage is undoubtedly Mr. Carter's booth, one in from the end, against the west wall. A guest gauges his or her importance by seating distance from that epicenter.
 By his own estimation, Mr. Carter is at the restaurant about two days a week. Regulars say it is less than that. He is, after all, expecting a baby any minute with his wife, Anna Carter. And now there is the Monkey Bar, which he hopes to reopen in about a year, after renovations. He has said he plans ''a small place, low-key.'' He is positioning it as a local place, similar to the Waverly Inn but for an uptown clientele.
 Mr. Carter's partners in the Waverly Inn say they are not concerned. ''We certainly haven't called a partners meeting over this,'' Mr. Varda said.
 These are uncertain economic times to open a restaurant, but so far, by all accounts the Waverly Inn has been lucrative. No one will say how lucrative, of course. But the Waverly's prices can be precious, the $55 macaroni and cheese with truffles being the most notorious example. Ever cautious, Mr. Varda says that the downturn has been felt even in his hallowed halls. ''Instead of paying $4,000 for a bottle of wine, people are paying $500,'' he said.
 Still, it is not so bad that the restaurant feels compelled to actually open and get a phone number? Mr. Varda just smiles and shakes his head.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HE'LL SEAT YOU, MAYBE: Graydon Carter, an owner of the Waverly Inn, tightly controls who gets in.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW H. WALKER/GETTY IMAGES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT PRESUTTI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
ONE, THEN TWO: Emil Varda, managing partner of the Waverly Inn, with his staff. Bottom, the chef, John DeLucie. Graydon Carter now also owns the Monkey Bar.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX DI SUVERO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW H. WALKER/GETTY IMAGES)(pg. F7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); CELEBRITIES (90%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (89%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); FASHION DESIGNERS (68%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (53%)

PERSON: LINDSAY LOHAN (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2008



321 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Paterson Assailed Over Bill To Cap Property Tax Increases

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
He is not campaigning for office -- at least not yet -- but that has not immunized Gov. David A. Paterson against the political attack ad.
 Starting on Tuesday, the left-leaning Working Families Party and the education advocacy group Alliance for Quality Education began broadcasting commercials in the state's biggest television markets that assail the governor for his support of a cap in property tax increases.
 The commercials, which are being broadcast at a cost of $1.5 million and will run repeatedly on cable and network television from now until Aug. 19, the day the Legislature convenes for a special session, refer to the cap as a ''gimmick'' and a ''scheme.'' 
 The measure, which would place a mandatory limit on property tax increases, was approved by the State Senate last week. In the State Assembly, however, a similar bill faces an uphill battle.
 The ad campaign represents an aggressive attempt by the Working Families Party, which would seem to be a natural political ally of the governor's, to try to influence the public dialogue on property taxes and the New York economy as a whole. 
 Mr. Paterson, a Democrat, has made a property tax measure one of the central policy objectives of his young administration. He has crisscrossed the state in recent weeks on a campaign-style tour to promote the plan.
 ''The governor does have a big megaphone,'' said Dan Cantor, executive director of the Working Families Party. ''This is a bad idea that will harm our schools, and we want to drive that home as the Legislature heads back into session.''
 Billy Easton, executive director for the Alliance for Quality Education, said, ''Millions of New Yorkers will see this ad buy multiple times, and it's our hope that Governor Paterson will hear from them.''
 The 30-second commercial opens to ominous-sounding piano music as a narrator says, ''Everyone agrees property taxes are a problem, but Gov. David Paterson's property tax gimmick is the wrong answer.'' The narrator then cites what the Working Families Party and the Alliance for Quality Education say were some of the effects of plans to cap property tax increases in other states: larger class sizes, billions of dollars in education cuts and laid-off teachers. 
 The commercial ends with the narrator saying, ''Tell David Paterson hurting schools is the wrong answer.''
 Mr. Paterson's office responded to the advertisement on Tuesday in a written statement calling the cap plan ''sensible'' and citing progress by students in Massachusetts, where a cap on increases was put in place. It also tied the cap in with the governor's plan to turn New York's economy around. 
 ''There is widespread recognition among New Yorkers that runaway increases in property taxes are deeply hurting our state,'' the statement said. ''Anyone who does not acknowledge this trend is out of touch with working families. The longer we wait to approve a property tax cap, the more we will hamstring New York from reaching its full economic potential.''
 The timing and size of this advertising campaign raised questions about whether opponents of the plan suddenly feared that it was gaining momentum.
 ''We do not see a groundswell of support in the Assembly for the tax cap,'' said Bob Master, a co-chairman of the Working Families Party. ''Nevertheless, you know, we want to send a clear message to the governor and to all members of the Assembly, and really to all citizens of the state, that this tax cap gimmick is not a solution. It is only a sound bite that has not been thought through.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY TAX (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); FAMILY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (77%); APPROVALS (69%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (66%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2008



322 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 13, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: Study Tallies Corporations Not Paying Income Tax

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
Two out of every three United States corporations paid no federal income taxes from 1998 through 2005, according to a report released Tuesday by the Government Accountability Office, the investigative arm of Congress. 
 The study, which is likely to add to a growing debate among politicians and policy experts over the contribution of businesses to Treasury coffers, did not identify the corporations or analyze why they had paid no taxes. It also did not say whether they had been operating properly within the tax code or illegally evading it. 
 The study covers 1.3 million corporations of all sizes, most of them small, with a collective $2.5 trillion in sales. It includes foreign corporations that do business in the United States. 
 Among foreign corporations, a slightly higher percentage, 68 percent, did not pay taxes during the period covered -- compared with 66 percent for United States corporations. Even with these numbers, corporate tax receipts have risen sharply as a percentage of federal revenue in recent years. 
 The G.A.O. study was done at the request of two Democratic senators, Carl Levin of Michigan and Byron L. Dorgan of North Dakota. In recent years, Senator Levin has held investigations on tax evasion and urged officials and regulators to examine whether corporations were abusing tax laws by shifting income earned in higher-tax jurisdictions, like the United States, to overseas subsidiaries in low-tax jurisdictions. 
 Senator Levin said in written remarks on Tuesday that ''this report makes clear that too many corporations are using tax trickery to send their profits overseas and avoid paying their fair share in the United States.''
 But the G.A.O. said that it did not have enough data to address the role of what some policy experts say is a crucial factor in profits sent overseas.
 That factor, known as transfer pricing, involves corporations' charging their overseas subsidiaries lower prices for goods and services, a common move that lowers a corporation's tax bill. A number of corporations are in transfer-pricing disputes with the Internal Revenue Service.
 Either way, the nearly 1,000 largest United States corporations were more likely than smaller ones to pay taxes. 
 In 2005, one in four large United States corporations paid no taxes on revenue of $1.1 trillion, compared with 66 percent in the overall pool. Large corporations are those with at least $250 million in assets or annual sales of at least $50 million.
 At a basic corporate tax rate of 35 percent, all the corporations covered in the study in theory owed $875 billion in federal income taxes. But because the tax code allows corporations to claim legally an array of deductions, write-offs, operating losses and tax credits, the actual taxes paid were much lower.
 Joshua Barro, a staff economist at the Tax Foundation, a conservative research group, said that the largest corporations represented only 1 percent of the total number of corporations but more than 90 percent of all corporate assets. 
 The vast majority of the large corporations that did not pay taxes had net losses, he said, and thus no income on which to pay taxes. ''The notion that there is a large pool of untaxed corporate profits is incorrect.''
 In 2004, a G.A.O. study said that 7 in 10 of all foreign corporations doing business in the United States, or foreign-controlled corporations, paid no taxes from 1996 through 2000, compared with 6 in 10 United States corporations. 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 14, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about a Government Accountability Office study reporting on the percentage of corporations that paid no federal income taxes from 1998 through 2005 gave an incorrect figure for the estimated tax liability of the 1.3 million companies covered by the study. It is not $875 billion. The correct amount cannot be calculated because it would be based on the companies' paying the standard rate of 35 percent on their net income, a figure that is not available. (The incorrect figure of $875 billion was based on the companies' paying the standard rate on their $2.5 trillion in gross sales.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); INCOME TAX (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); CORPORATE TAX (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAX FRAUD (78%); SALES FIGURES (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (75%); STATISTICS (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (84%)

PERSON: CARL LEVIN (77%); BYRON DORGAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2008



323 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Circuits; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Ruling Is a Victory for Supporters of Free Software

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
A legal dispute involving model railroad hobbyists has resulted in a major courtroom victory for the free software movement also known as open-source software. 
 In a ruling Wednesday, the federal appeals court in Washington said that just because a software programmer gave his work away did not mean it could not be protected. 
 The decision legitimizes the use of commercial contracts for the distribution of computer software and digital artistic works for the public good. The court ruling also bolsters the open-source movement by easing the concerns of large organizations about relying on free software from hobbyists and hackers who have freely contributed time and energy without pay. 
 It also has implications for the Creative Commons license, a framework for modifying and sharing creative works that was developed in 2002 by Larry Lessig, a law professor at Stanford.
 That license is now used widely by organizations like M.I.T. for distributing courseware, and Wikipedia, the Web-based encyclopedia. In March, the rock band Nine Inch Nails released a collection of musical tracks under a Creative Commons license.
 The ambiguity facing open-source licensing has been one of the hurdles facing the movement, said Joichi Ito, the chief executive of Creative Commons. 
 ''From a practical business perspective when big companies and their legal teams look at Creative Commons there are a number of questions,'' he said. ''It's been one of the things their legal teams throw at us.''
 The appeals court decision reverses a San Francisco federal court ruling over the misappropriation of a software program by a company that publishes model train hobbyist software.
 The free software, or open source, community has quarreled for several years with Matthew A. Katzer, a Portland, Ore., businessman who owns Kam Industries. Previously, Mr. Katzer has sued free software developers for patent infringement and the free software community has argued that he had failed to disclose earlier technology, known as prior art, in his patent filings.
 A lawyer for Mr. Katzer did not return calls asking for comment.
 In March 2006, Robert G. Jacobsen, a physics professor at the University of California, Berkeley, filed a lawsuit against Mr. Katzer claiming that his company was distributing a commercial software program that had taken software code from the Java Model Railroad Interface project and was redistributing the program without the credits required as part of the open-source license it was distributed under.
 The decision to appeal the lower court ruling, which said that the terms of the open-source contract were overly broad, was intensely debated within the free software movement. Some open-source advocates had worried that a loss before the appeals court would have been a disaster for the community, which has grown as an economic force during the last quarter century.
 ''I was terrified that we would lose,'' Mr. Jacobsen said. ''But I thought it was the right thing to do.''
 There has long been a link between model train hobbyists and the free software movement. During the 1950s, for example, hobbyists who worked on the wiring of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology model railroad club project were informally known as ''hackers,'' according to ''Hackers: Heroes of the Computer Revolution'' by Steven Levy. The term evolved to include people who developed and programmed computers and who passionately believed that software codes should be freely shared.
 Mr. Jacobsen said he believed that the court's ruling was significant for the free software movement because it had thrived not on monetary gain but on individual credit for contributions.
 ''We don't charge for this and so all we really get is credit,'' he said, adding that anyone is free to use and modify the programming instructions created by his group as long as they retain the credit and distribute them with the programmer's instructions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (93%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (92%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); APPEALS (89%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (89%); PATENTS (88%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (77%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (76%); LAWYERS (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); POP & ROCK (67%); PRIOR ART (67%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (67%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (69%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008



324 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Chicago Has Shoulders Broad Enough to Host Games

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
 Three years after New York fizzled out in its Olympic bid for 2012, Chicago is in contention to host the Summer Games of 2016.
 Mayor Richard M. Daley is a sanguine-enough politician to know that his city will not help itself by trying to emulate Beijing's magnificent new arenas and subways and hotels, or its supply of energetic young workers, or the spectacular opening ceremony. That way lies madness, or at least frustration. 
 The Chicago delegation was here the past week observing as Beijing held its first Olympic Games. Chicago has also never been a host. 
 Daley and his wife, Maggie, raved about what they saw, but clearly the Beijing model is different from Chicago's. Beijing is the capital of a one-party government -- no mayor of Chicago ever aspired to something like that, of course -- and things tend to get done without referendums and oversight committees and public hearings and cranky questions from the news media. 
 ''People want to know that taxpayers' money will not be used for this event,'' Daley said over lunch the other day. 
 The fuzzy word infrastructure can be used to justify tax-supported projects, but Daley talks a good game about leaving major housing and recreation behind. When breaking bread with the mayor of Chicago, one somehow does not expect to veer into a discussion of the bicycle we both ride -- a Trek Hybrid. Daley seems like a serious cyclist, cutting over from his South Side high-rise to the glorious pathways along Lake Michigan.
 Daley has been instrumental in providing Chicago with an honest-to-goodness bicycle station with racks and even showers for commuters, right at the edge of the Loop. Anybody who can do something like this seems perfectly capable of helping to attract the 2016 Games. 
 One of the first chores is to pick a role model. Asked which Olympic city he would emulate, Daley wisely chose Barcelona, the host of the 1992 Summer Games. 
 ''They recognized the identity of Barcelona,'' Daley said. ''They reclaimed the waterfront.'' He knows his urban renewal. The socialist regime of Barcelona, with the backing of the proud Catalan region, did a superb job of planning new housing and waterfront recreation for after the Games.
 Maggie Daley spoke with great enthusiasm about going up to Montjuich, the hill overlooking that gorgeous city, and seeing thousands of people using the pool and parks left from the Games. 
 Sometimes the Olympics do leave a legacy. Atlanta, pilloried early and often by critics like me, now has housing and other signs of urban life surrounding downtown. But Athens is still trying to figure out what to do with some rusting Olympic buildings. 
 Chicago has a chance for 2016. In early June, the city was selected along with Rio de Janeiro, Madrid and Tokyo as finalists, with the vote to be held in October 2009. Daley is serving as the honorary chairman of the bid, but the active leader is Patrick G. Ryan, the founder and retiring chairman of Aon, a huge insurance and reinsurance brokerage firm, who was also here this past week. 
 Daley said he welcomed support from both presidential candidates, John McCain and Barack Obama. Last-minute lobbying by Tony Blair, the British prime minister at the time, proved vital to London's winning the 2012 bid in 2005. And Vladimir V. Putin, who was president of Russia at the time, was a major factor in Sochi's winning the bid for the 2014 Winter Games last year. 
 Asked if the current unpopularity of the Bush administration around the world could hurt Chicago's chances, Daley declined to go there, saying: ''I don't think international politics should interfere with arts and sports. Politicians are spectators. They are never on the stage or the field.'' 
 Daley did note that Obama had dropped in unannounced at a recent rally in support of the Chicago candidacy.
 ''He lives a few blocks from the Olympic stadium,'' the mayor said, referring to the projected 90,000-seat building that would be scaled back after the Games. ''He and Michelle are excited,'' Daley added, speaking of Obama's wife. ''In 2016, their family will be among the ones enjoying the Olympics.'' 
 The mayor and his wife, who runs an after-school program providing arts and other enrichment, spoke with considerable passion about leaving something for the community, as the International Olympic Committee prefers. 
 The New York bid for the 2012 Games tried to plan for that but ran into trouble trying to build a multipurpose arena over railroad tracks on the West Side of Manhattan. Tossing in an alternate proposal for an Olympic stadium in Queens, New York gained only 16 votes and was eliminated in the second round in 2005. 
 Nobody from Chicago would ever be caught dead saying this, but a Chicago bid could expect a certain amount of Second City local pride. Many New Yorkers did not support the impractical bid for 2012, feeling they were already the center of the universe.
 New York's plan also faltered because its metropolitan area is separated by bridges and tunnels, and a ferry fleet was not going to work, shuttling athletes and fans. Beautiful, cultured, powerful Chicago, with its flat space alongside Lake Michigan, would be a better physical prospect than New York.
 Chicago was only third in the ratings by the I.O.C. in June, but Daley insisted, ''We are going to be a player.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Richard M. Daley speaking at a reception held by the U.S. Olympic Committee in Beijing.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ELIZABETH DALZIEL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); CITY LIFE (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (69%); REFERENDUMS (68%); LAKES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (95%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2008



325 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Circuits; BASICS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: The Social Network as a Career Safety Net

BYLINE: By SARAH JANE TRIBBLE

 BODY:
IF you have avoided social-networking sites like LinkedIn and Facebook with the excuse that they are the domain of desperate job hunters or attention-seeking teenagers, it's time to reconsider.
In a world of economic instability and corporate upheaval, savvy professionals like the technology consultant Josh So epitomize the benefits of brushing up your online image and keeping it polished.
When Mr. So, a 32-year-old from Dublin, Calif., learned he had 45 days to find a new job before his company eliminated his division, he turned to friends online.
Within hours of updating his job status on the social-networking site LinkedIn, Mr. So won four job interviews through his contacts there. Within a week, two of the interviews resulted in offers. And within less than a month, his employer counteroffered with a position in another division and a $25,000 bump in his annual salary. 
The old business adage that it's not what you know but who you know takes a twist in the Internet era: it's what you know about social-networking sites that can get you ahead.
''Build your own inner circle of people you know are good -- people you know will get you places,'' Mr. So said.
While it lacks the glamour of more popular sites like MySpace and Facebook, LinkedIn ''is the place to be,'' said the JupiterResearch media analyst Barry Parr, if you want to make professional contacts online. LinkedIn is a ''Chamber of Commerce mixer,'' he said.
LinkedIn has more than 25 million members, and it is adding new ones at the rate of 1.2 million a month -- or about one new networker every two seconds.
With that kind of mass demographic, LinkedIn is hard to ignore. But with that kind of scale, can it be useful? It can be if you use it judiciously.
LinkedIn is intended to appeal to its average user: the 41-year-old white-collar professional with an income of $109,000 a year. User pages are spare: a brief professional summary, a photo and a resume.
As you create your network, the site shows you people you may know through past jobs or educational institutions. (Facebook also suggests contacts, but it starts with lists from your e-mail or instant messaging accounts.)
And there is a search function so you can find people you don't know but would like to -- for instance, at a company where you want a job.
You might be shy about calling or e-mailing people you have neglected, but the social-networking sites let you avoid that. You are simply renewing the connection when you add a contact.
Bernard Lunn, a Web technology entrepreneur in New York, describes LinkedIn as the ultimate Rolodex.
''I'm no spring chicken,'' said Mr. Lunn, 53. ''I've been in business for almost 30 years. I had lost touch with a lot of people and had spent time in different industries.''
The Web site did the work of finding people for him, providing a list of likely connections by searching its own database of people who had overlapped with him at past jobs. All Mr. Lunn had to do was review the list and select contacts he wanted to add to his network.
''Some of them are now doing very useful jobs,'' he said.
That's the point. You don't have to fear you'll be perceived as using them; they are on the site for the same reason. They might well intend to use you.
Even so, don't go crazy trying to connect with everyone you brushed past in the hallway 20 years ago, or friends of friends. Too many people can weaken your network.
''We try to discourage promiscuous linking,'' said Kay Luo, a spokeswoman for LinkedIn.
But don't be afraid to network strategically. You want to connect to people who can get you jobs. ''People usually invite up -- people above them in hierarchy,'' said Ms. Luo. ''When you're talking about a professional network, quality is so important.''
So if the No. 1 tactic is to connect with people who are useful and successful, how do you make sure you're one of their worthy connections? There are a few helpful approaches.
Ask for recommendations. Mr. So, who so quickly parlayed his connections into job offers, said that having updated recommendations with his resume on LinkedIn was crucial to being noticed.
''The only way to get recommendations is to go out and ask for it,'' Mr. So said. ''It's kind of a weird system. I typically go to my bosses and peers and say, 'Do you mind?' ''
The flipside of that system is that it behooves you to be generous. Jeremiah K. Owyang, senior analyst at Forrester Research, has watched the growth of online social media since 2005 and advises social-networking users to follow an 80-20 rule. ''Give information and answer questions 80 percent of the time, and 20 percent of the time ask for help,'' he said.
When a contact asks for a recommendation, write it graciously and promptly. If you think that person isn't worth a recommendation, think again about being connected to that person.
And remember the other social-networking sites. If LinkedIn is the Chamber of Commerce luncheon, then Facebook is the after-hours party (and MySpace is the all-night rave, which may make trolling for business connections there a bit trying). ''Facebook seems a more natural way of communicating,'' said Debra Aho Williamson, senior analyst for eMarketer in Seattle. ''LinkedIn seems more formal.''
Facebook, which began in 2004 as a way for college students to communicate, has more than 80 million active users. The fastest-growing segment is now those 25 years old and older, according to the company.
The site makes it easy to carry on a casual conversation or ask group questions. The easiest way to use it professionally is to join your employer's network. And it helps to post interesting links that are relevant to your job.
The site features classified ads in the Facebook Marketplace, and there are job-hunting applications on the site, like Jobster. There are also tools for building a professional profile or online business cards. And you can use one of a handful of applications, liked LinkedIn Contacts, to connect your Facebook profile to LinkedIn.
But the social ease of Facebook makes it easy to look frivolous, all of the experts warned. If you tend to overshare, people in your network will quickly learn about the breakup of your marriage or your love of Jell-O shots. (Facebook now offers fine-tuned privacy settings, on the upper right side of the home page.)
So perhaps the best tip of all for online social networking would be: Keep the social separate from the networking.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (95%); SOCIAL MEDIA (92%); INTERVIEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); INSTANT MESSAGING (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%)

COMPANY: LINKEDIN CORP (92%); FACEBOOK INC (58%)

TICKER: LNKD (NYSE) (92%); FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2011



326 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: Caution Pays For a Lender In New Jersey

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

DATELINE: PARAMUS, N.J. 

 BODY:
Ronald E. Hermance Jr. is something of an oddity these days. He is a banker who has not been battered by the credit crisis.
 Hudson City Savings Bank, where he has served as chairman and chief executive for 11 years, never issued a subprime mortgage or sold a collateralized debt obligation. It did not hopscotch into faster-growing markets offering easy money, nor did it plunge into making risky construction loans. 
 And unlike most of its peers, Hudson City's $50 billion balance sheet is not soaked in red ink. In fact, when Mr. Hermance spent the last few weeks personally combing through the bank's problem mortgages, he turned up 328 -- a fraction of the number that other banks are reporting. 
 ''It seems dull and boring,'' Mr. Hermance said, flashing a grin in a recent interview. ''But it happens to have made a lot of money over the past year.'' 
 Hudson City Savings Bank, one of the nation's largest savings institutions, sits about 12 miles across the Hudson River from the big banks that came to dominate Manhattan with the help of aggressive financial strategies. But there is an ocean of difference in how they are run. 
 As many of the nation's lenders widened their loan offerings, Hudson City stuck to collecting deposits and issuing mortgages, preferring to operate as a mom-and-pop boutique instead of a financial department store. It continued to screen borrowers carefully, since it planned to hold their loans instead of selling them to outside investors. And it steered clear of complex investments its executives could not value, the kind that would later turn toxic as the housing market collapsed. 
 Now, the bank that flew under the radar screen has quietly racked up a market value of $10 billion, eclipsing troubled giants like Washington Mutual that have been swamped by mortgage and credit card losses in recent months.
 And Hudson City's stock has been on a tear. Shares have risen more than 51 percent since the credit crisis began last August. The KBW bank index, one popular measure of the financial sector, is down 40 percent over the same period. 
 Not everyone, however, is convinced that the bank's straight-and-narrow approach will keep it immune from the turmoil still afflicting credit markets. Across the industry, delinquencies on mortgages made to the most creditworthy borrowers have started to rise. And with more layoffs and lower bonuses expected for those on Wall Street, Hudson City, which caters to that group as a specialist in so-called jumbo mortgages, could suffer, too.
 Some Wall Street analysts believe that means Hudson City's heyday could end soon. ''We believe the music is about to end for this strategy,'' said Gerrard Cassidy, a banking analyst at RBC Capital Markets. ''The conditions of the market surrounding this company are starting to deteriorate.'' 
 Yet, when measured against the large number of financial institutions with soured loan portfolios, Hudson City is one of the few bright spots in an industry beset with doom and gloom. So far, only a handful of other domestic banks can claim a similar performance.
 Shares of Dime Community Bancshares, a small lender based in Brooklyn, have soared 43 percent since last August as investors rewarded Dime for staying true to its roots. A few other small banks in New York, including NBT Bancorp, based in Norwich, and Tompkins Financial, based in Ithaca, have posted similarly strong results. And outside the Northeast, banks like City National Bank in Charleston, W.Va., and UMB Financial of Kansas City, Mo., have performed well by hewing to a similar strategy. 
 To some extent, these banks shared the good fortune of being far from hot spots on the East and West Coasts, where housing prices have fallen sharply. And they also maintained tried-and-true lending standards, even as competitors loosened theirs. 
 Hudson City reflects those principles, too. ''They have stuck to their markets. They have stuck to their loan product, and they didn't chase,'' said Tom Alonso, a banking analyst at Fox-Pitt Kelton. ''Now, they are sort of the last man standing, so now the business is coming to them.'' 
 Founded 140 years ago by immigrants in Jersey City, N.J., the bank never strayed from its roots as a community lender. Mr. Hermance is fond of describing Hudson City as an old-fashioned bank. It went public in 1999, and raised nearly $4 billion in fresh funds six years later. 
 Instead of spending its capital on a big acquisition, the bank grew at a deliberate pace. It opened dozens of branches in the wealthy suburbs of New Jersey, New York, and Connecticut that ring New York City. (Seeking to avoid its maze of co-op and condominium lending rules, it skipped Manhattan.) It now has 125 locations in the area. 
 At the same time, Hudson City remained focused with a simple business model. First, the bank offered attractive interest rates, luring deposits that gave it a steady source of low-cost financing. It also concentrated on making jumbo mortgages -- loans larger than the $417,000 limit for mortgages that can be sold to the federally chartered enterprises Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae -- and snapped up others to hold in its portfolio. And it kept its costs more than 50 percent lower than its big banking peers by offering fewer products and frills at its branches, while maintaining a relatively small back-office staff. 
 ''This is not a black box,'' Mr. Hermance said. ''This is a glass box. You see how everything operates.''
 When it came to evaluating borrowers, Hudson City was similarly disciplined. Where most banks relied almost exclusively on credit scores, Hudson City's loan officers largely ignored them. Instead, the bank carefully screened loan applicants to ensure they would be able both to afford a new home and reside there, rather than flip it. And the bank demanded hefty down payments -- an average of about 39 percent of the home value -- as a cushion against any sharp drop in home prices, because it planned to hang on to the loans. 
 ''You tend to be more discerning when you have to eat your losses,'' said Denis J. Salamone, the bank's chief operating officer.
 As a result, Hudson City has been free to lend at a time when many of its competitors have been hamstrung. Thornburg Mortgage, a jumbo mortgage lender based in Santa Fe, N.M., for example, has struggled to secure new funding since the credit markets froze last summer. And other bank rivals have overstretched their balance sheets. 
 With much of his competition weakened, Mr. Hermance has rushed to take advantage. So far, mortgage applications for 2008 exceeded the number the bank received in all of 2007, and he believes that Hudson City can maintain its high standards even as it adds new partnerships with brokers to extend its reach. Hudson City is currently ''keeping an eye'' on troubled banks in Florida, he said, although Hudson City executives have all but ruled out a major acquisition for now. 
 Although Mr. Hermance expects the national housing market to continue deteriorating through next year, he believes the bank's conservative lending strategy will keep it safe. New York's economy is diverse enough to withstand any shocks from Wall Street borrowers now unable to pay, he said. 
 And besides, the real estate market during ''the S.& L. crisis was far worse than where we are today,'' he added. ''There seems to be a lot more resiliency now.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ronald E. Hermance Jr. has been the chief executive of Hudson City Savings Bank for 11 years.
 Headquarters of Hudson City Savings Bank in Paramus, N.J.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); RETAILERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (72%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (72%); HOUSING MARKET (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%); LAYOFFS (62%); MORTGAGE LOANS (57%)

COMPANY: HUDSON CITY BANCORP INC (84%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (53%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (50%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (50%)

TICKER: HCBK (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (84%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%)

PERSON: RONALD E HERMANCE JR (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2008



327 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Circuits; PHONE SMART; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: Oft-Repeated and So Unromantic: 'You're Breaking Up'

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
Telephone and cable companies have done a stellar job of eliminating slow or dropped Internet connections.
 So why must cellphone users still live with the same irritations?
 Anyone old enough to remember extending a cellphone antenna to start a call also knows how much better cell reception is now than in the 1990s. But cell users still often live on the razor's edge between a conversation and a soliloquy. And it is not improving very fast.
 Nearly 20 percent of the wireless calls in North America and Europe have unacceptable voice quality, says Ditech Networks, a company in Mountain View, Calif., that sells voice improvement technology to network carriers. 
 Ditech has no comparative data to discern a trend and it would not disclose how the various carriers stacked up. But Karl Brown, a company vice president, said: ''My gut is that things are getting worse. We're using our cellphones in more places, we're trying to turn them into speakerphones, which generates echoes, and we're buying Bluetooth headsets that have problems picking up background noise.'' 
 You can also blame the carriers for not keeping pace with demand, especially in suburban areas. There, networks fight not-in-my-backyard battles with residents when they try to situate new cell towers to accommodate ever-chattier subscribers.
 Those customers shouldn't expect a great leap forward in call quality anytime soon, said Shiv K. Bakhshi, an analyst for IDC, a market consulting firm. Networks, he said, do not always have the capacity to satisfy peak demand from customers without glitches. ''Which is the way it always is,'' he said. 
 Carriers have no economic incentive to build capacity so quickly that they outpace demand, but nor will they let voice quality drop so much that subscribers bolt en masse.
 ''On average, I think voice quality is pretty good. We can understand each other,'' he said.
 Maybe at that particular moment. Mr. Bakhshi was using the AT&T wireless network in Seattle, and the line noise rendered his statements unintelligible, as in: ''The cost of deploying a network in ... that every single nook and cranny is covered with equal ... is ... part.'' The same glitches happen on every wireless network, of course, which is perhaps why AT&T was slightly defensive when asked about this one. Mark Siegel, an AT&T spokesman, declared the state of cellphone quality ''excellent.''
 ''We continue to add new capacity in places where we weren't before,'' Mr. Siegel said, ''and enhance the capacity of the service we already have, and I think you'll find it true of other carriers as well.''
 Perhaps, but Sprint, which has recently been much more forthcoming about its faults as it tries to improve its customer service reputation, is striking a different tone. The company in late July began selling Airaves, or miniature cellphone towers, to strengthen cell signals in customers' homes.
 The devices, which cost $99 (and a $5 monthly subscription), plug into a customer's broadband Internet connection and support up to three simultaneous Sprint calls. Kevin Packingham, a Sprint senior vice president, said the company is also giving the devices away and waiving the $5 monthly fee to customers who complain about poor coverage at home.
 (Note to Sprint subscribers: it's not a complete gimme. The company must first verify that you've experienced dropped calls.)
 The device could help jittery customers finally sever themselves from landline telephone service, Mr. Packingham said, since subscribers have lingering fears about not being able to get a signal to dial 911, for instance, or make business calls from home. ''Five years ago, customers expected their call to drop,'' he said. ''Now people expect crystal-clear quality, so these hiccups on the network have suddenly become very frustrating to subscribers.''
 At the same time, though, there are signs that consumers are coming to terms with the state of call quality. ComScore, a technology research firm, recently found that price has edged out signal quality as the top reason for switching networks. Industry data suggests the so-called churn rate, the percentage of customers that switch networks, stands at a modest 1.2 percent, or about half of what it was three years ago.
 Whether that's because consumers are happy with their cell coverage, or whether they simply don't expect better coverage from anyone else, is an open question. (Mr. Packingham, for one, said the networks are ''within spitting distance of each other'' when it comes to voice quality.)
 Handset makers, meanwhile, are trying to pick up the slack with some high tech gadgetry of their own. Motorola last year began building technology into its handsets that recognizes the difference between voice and background noise, minimizing noise before the sounds reach the listener. Customer complaints and returns dropped significantly.
 Nokia, for its part, has begun selling a phone, the 6220 Classic, that transmits the compressed voice data in high-definition, essentially polishing the speaker's voice before it hits your ear.
 Sounds great? Not so fast. Carriers must also adopt the technology before its effects can be heard by subscribers, and while carriers are working on it, none has yet done so.
 In other words ... consumers ... wait if ... as good as ... Internet connection.
 Quick Calls
 Mobile phones will display the number of the incoming caller, but unless you recognize the number, that's little help. Privus Mobile recently introduced a new caller ID service for cellphone users that looks much like that of conventional landline services. For about $8 a month, the Privus will identify about 95 percent of incoming callers. The only hitch: it works with a limited number of smartphones. See the list on privusmobile.com.
 Fans of the Olympics have another option for keeping tabs on the competition. Go2.com, a mobile content company, introduced a phone-friendly site with key results, medal counts and a television schedule. The service is free, but data charges apply. Go to wap1.go2.com/section/olympics/.
 Users of the new iPhone often complain about limited battery life, but starting next month Mophie, a mobile phone accessories company, will begin selling the ''juice pack 3G'' battery extender. It adds 350 hours of standby time and six hours of talk time. The device, which fits on the back of the iPhone, will be priced at $100 at Mophie.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Airave from Sprint is intended to strengthen cellphone signals in customers' homes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (93%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (92%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (89%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (89%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (73%); SHORT RANGE WIRELESS (72%); SUBURBS (66%)

COMPANY: AT&T INC (87%); AT&T MOBILITY LLC (85%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (87%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (87%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (87%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (87%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008



328 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1714 words

HEADLINE: Scars of a Deadly Insurgency Line Afghanistan's Main Road

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL

DATELINE: SAYDEBAD, Afghanistan 

 BODY:
Not far from here, just off the highway that was once the showpiece of the United States reconstruction effort in Afghanistan, three American soldiers and their Afghan interpreter were ambushed and killed seven weeks ago. 
 The soldiers -- two of them members of the National Guard from New York -- died as their vehicles were hit by mines and rocket-propelled grenades. At least one was dragged off and chopped to pieces, according to Afghan and Western officials. The body was so badly mutilated that at first the military announced that it had found the remains of two men, not one, in a nearby field. 
 The attack, on June 26, was notable not only for its brutality, but also because it came amid a series of spectacular insurgent attacks along the road that have highlighted the precariousness of the international effort to secure Afghanistan six years after the United States intervened to drive off the Taliban government.
 Security in the provinces ringing the capital, Kabul, has deteriorated rapidly in recent months. Today it is as bad as at any time since the beginning of the war, as militants have surged into new areas and taken advantage of an increasingly paralyzed local government and police force and the thinly stretched international military presence here. 
 This district is just 50 miles or so south of Kabul. Farther south, beyond the town of Salar, the road -- also known as Highway 1 -- is even more dangerous, and to drive beyond that point is to risk ambush, explosions and possible slaughter.
 When it was refurbished several years ago, the Kabul-Kandahar highway was a demonstration of America's commitment to building a new, democratic Afghanistan. A critical artery, the highway quite literally holds this country together. 
 A Precarious Thread
 For the shaky Afghan state, it binds the country's center to the insurgent-ridden south, and provides a tenuous thread to unite Afghanistan's increasingly divided ethnic halves: the insurgent-ridden, Pashtun dominated south with the more stable, mainly Tajik, Hazara and Turkic populated north. 
 For the United States and the NATO-led force in Afghanistan, it is an important supply route for the war effort, linking the two largest foreign military bases in the country, at Bagram and Kandahar, and a number of smaller bases along the way. 
 But today the highway is a dangerous gantlet of mines and attacks from insurgents and criminals, pocked with bomb craters and blown-up bridges. The governor of Ghazni Province came under fire driving through Salar on Tuesday and two of his guards were wounded, officials said.
 The insurgents have made the route a main target, with the apparent aim of undercutting Afghanistan's economy and infrastructure, said Gen. Zaher Azimi, the Afghan military spokesman. 
 The road has become the site of extreme carnage in the last six weeks, disrupting supply lines for American and NATO forces and tying down Afghan Army forces. One of the worst attacks occurred in Salar on June 24 when some 50 fuel tankers and food trucks carrying supplies for the United States military were ambushed. 
 The convoy was set on fire. Seven of its drivers were dragged out and beheaded, said Abdul Ghayur, the commander of the private security force that supplied the drivers. ''Those ones who were driving the refrigerated trucks,'' which presumably looked more foreign, were singled out, he said. 
 That attack was followed two days later by the ambush that killed the three Americans and their Afghan interpreter, farther north, near a village called Tangi.
 Calling In the Army
 The ferocity of their killing, coming amid a sudden spiral of insurgent violence along the road and in the surrounding provinces, forced the Afghan government to send several battalions of the Afghan National Army in July here to Wardak Province, which lies just south of Kabul, to try to secure the road.
 Soldiers of Afghanistan's 201st Corps are now posted in old hilltop positions that the Soviet army used in the 1980s, surveying the road and the green side valleys that provide easy cover for the insurgents. 
 Since their arrival three weeks ago, the Afghan soldiers say they have been engaged in repeated firefights with insurgents and have surprised several groups trying to lay roadside bombs. 
 Soldiers from one Afghan unit, which had recently set up camp in a school building in Salar, said they were called out Aug. 1 to reinforce the local police, who were besieged in their own station less than three miles down the road. 
 The Afghan soldiers ran into an ambush almost immediately and had to battle for three hours before they could relieve the police station, said the commander, Capt. Gul Jan, 42. 
 Their adversaries include a mix of criminals, insurgents from the mujahedeen group Hesb-e-Islami, and members of the Taliban and Al Qaeda, and their main aim was to attack government forces and convoys, and kidnap officials and others for ransom, said Maj. Muhammad Gul, a battalion commander charged with guarding the road as far as Salar. 
 ''The Taliban are trying to bring more people in from other provinces because Wardak is closer to Kabul, and definitely, what happens here will affect Kabul, too,'' he said.
 The deployment of the Afghan Army, which is now equipped with artillery and heavy machine guns, came just in time, residents said.
 Haji Muhammad Musa Hotak, a legislator from Wardak Province, says that public confidence in the government has virtually collapsed along with the security situation. 
 Insurgents and other armed groups in the province have swelled from barely 100 last year to an estimated 500, as villagers have joined the insurgents, either for money or their own protection, he said. 
 ''Dissatisfaction of the people is growing, anger is growing, people are joining the opposition groups,'' he said in an interview in his Kabul office.
 He has not been able to visit his home district for a month since the kidnapping of a Chinese road construction worker there by the Taliban, not even for the funeral of his grandson, he said. ''How can we say the situation will gradually get better?'' 
 In one of the most brazen attacks, on July 6, at Durrani, a large verdant village flanked by craggy mountains, the Taliban seized positions just above the road and fired on a convoy of seven tankers. The explosion set fire to the roadside shops and civilian cars, killing 22 civilians, Mr. Hotak said. 
 Army Capt. Muhammad Zaman, 41, was sent in with his platoon to set up base in Durrani just after the attack, as other units pursued the insurgents into villages behind the mountains. 
 The local police were woefully outmanned and outgunned, he said. ''If there was no Afghan Army here, it would be too difficult to secure the road for one hour,'' he said. 
 Tense Relations
 But camping in the open, he had minimal defenses, and no protection against mortar fire, he said. His battalion has served alongside American troops all over Afghanistan, but on this operation the Afghan soldiers are on their own, save for some French troops who were mentoring them. Only one small French team appeared to be present among several hundred Afghan troops.
 Coordination with American forces in the area was so poor that a passing American military convoy had fired on his positions just five days before and wounded one of his soldiers, Muhammad Baqer, in both legs. 
 ''I could easily have fired back at them,'' he said angrily. Villagers, too, complained that the American troops were firing recklessly. 
 ''The Americans are not looking at us like human beings, but we are also human beings,'' said a 20-year-old mechanic, Homayun, who uses one name and works in the bazaar down the road at the town of Saydebad. 
 ''We don't like either of them,'' Homayun said of the Taliban and United States forces. ''If they are fighting each other, innocent people get hurt.''
 Nevertheless the Afghan Army units here seemed confident they could handle the insurgent threat in Wardak, and said the people were on their side. 
 ''We can beat the Taliban conclusively when we build up our manpower,'' said First Lt. Rahmatullah Minallah, who commands a post overlooking the Tangi valley, where the Americans died. 
 ''I have 50 men here now. When I have 100 men, I can leave 50 here and go and clear out the village,'' he said. 
 Some men from the unit were sent in to assist the ambushed Americans soldiers at Tangi, and gave their account of what had happened. 
 A Deadly Attack
 The American soldiers had been traveling in three Humvees, heading east toward the neighboring province of Logar, they said. The United States military later said they were on a combat patrol and died from their wounds when their convoy was attacked by improvised explosive devices, small arms fire and rocket-propelled grenades.
 The three were identified as Sgt. First Class Matthew L. Hilton, 37, of Livonia, Mich., of the Michigan Army National Guard; and Sgt. First Class Joseph A. McKay, 51, of Brooklyn; and Specialist Mark C. Palmateer, 38, of Poughkeepsie, N.Y., both of them part of a reconnaissance, surveillance and target acquisition unit of the New York Army National Guard, according to a Pentagon news release. 
 Their Afghan interpreter was 21-year-old Muhammad Fahim from Kabul, who had been working with the Americans for the last three years. His body was burned beyond recognition, his family said. 
 One vehicle struck a mine, but the convoy of three Humvees apparently kept moving, until a second vehicle hit a mine, said Capt. Haji Rahim, who visited the scene afterward. The Humvee caught fire, and the blaze was so strong the trees around it burned too, he said. 
 Captain Rahim did not see the bodies but learned from an American officer that one or more had been butchered. ''Their bodies had no heads, legs or arms,'' he said. A Western official in Kabul confirmed that at least one of the bodies had been cut up. ''Organs were removed,'' the official said.
 Those behind the attack were swiftly identified as a group led by a local man, a former Hesb-e-Islami commander named Mullah Najibullah. Two weeks later United States and Afghan forces tracked him down at his home and killed him and his followers in a siege of the compound, Afghan officials said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Private security guards in Afghanistan prepared the way for an oil tanker in Wardak Province on the dangerous highway connecting Kabul and Kandahar.
 Afghan soldiers were sent to relieve a besieged police station in the village of Durrani. They now keep watch against Taliban fighters at a nearby outpost. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MOISES SAMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A14) MAP: Three American soldiers were killed in an ambush near Saydebad. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); TALIBAN (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); MILITARY BASES (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); POLICE FORCES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (93%) AFGHANISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2008



329 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Feed a Mood Of Decline

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Another month of weak retail sales in July added to evidence that the spending power of American consumers has weakened considerably, despite the booster shot of billions of dollars from the government's tax stimulus program.
 Even as gasoline prices started to retreat, consumers paid more last month for imported goods, the government reported on Wednesday, as import prices rose at the fastest annual rate in 25 years. 
 The dour economic data put pressure on stocks, sending the Dow Jones industrial average down 109 points on Wednesday as financial shares fell for a second day. Disappointing earnings reports from John Deere, the farm equipment manufacturer, and the retail giant Macy's also depressed investors, along with a nearly $3 increase in oil prices, which settled at $116 a barrel. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 0.3 percent. 
 With the stimulus payments at an end, Americans now have fewer buffers between their pocketbooks and higher energy costs, falling home values and the tight credit market. Companies and investors are bracing for spending to fall even further this year.
 ''I had been hoping that the second half of the year would be better than the first half,'' Michael T. Darda, chief economist at the trading and research firm MKM Partners, said. ''But we're not creating jobs in the private sector. You've got the credit situation getting tighter, along with stock prices coming down and home values falling. That's a cocktail that's going to leave a vicious hangover.''
 Retail sales declined 0.1 percent in July, led by a sharp drop in automobile sales, the Commerce Department said. Sales were also weak at restaurants, sporting goods shops and health care stores. 
 It was the first overall decline in sales since February, and it came after the government mailed $100 billion to millions of Americans from May to July in an effort to shore up consumer confidence and stimulate the economy. Spending subsequently rose in May, but that increase has not been sustained.
 ''It's clear that the rebate checks are fading,'' Anika Khan, an economist at Wachovia, said. Gasoline prices dropped slightly in July, and Ms. Khan said the report could have been worse had consumers not enjoyed a bit of relief at the pump.
 There were a handful of bright spots. Excluding motor vehicles, July sales rose 0.4 percent as Americans spent more on electronics, furniture, food and Internet purchases. Sales growth in June was also revised higher.
 But the modest increase may have reflected higher prices rather than more demand. Inflation continues to hurt consumers, who paid 1.7 percent more for imported products last month, according to a separate report from the Labor Department. 
 Import prices are 21.6 percent higher than a year ago, the biggest annual increase since records began in 1982. Industrial supplies, petroleum, and foods and beverages accounted for most of the increase.
 Export prices are also rising -- by 1.4 percent in July alone -- which could tamp down foreign demand and hurt American businesses. The dollar is strengthening against the euro, which has dropped nearly 7 cents, or 4.4 percent, in the last two weeks. The euro settled slightly up on Wednesday, at $1.4934. 
 In privately tracked sales figures released last week, many department stores and clothing outlets reported significant declines in sales at stores that had been open at least a year.
 High-end and midtier retailers like Saks, Kohl's, J. C. Penney and Target all reported sales declines, as did Gap and other popular clothing stores. 
 Americans did more of their shopping at wholesale clubs and discount outlets, although even the big-box stores are seeing signs of a slowdown. Wal-Mart's sales failed to match expectations last month, and the company said that business would worsen in August. Wal-Mart also said that shopping patterns indicated that more customers were living paycheck to paycheck.
 As with many economic reports, the government acknowledged a large degree of statistical uncertainty in Wednesday's retail sales figures. The Census Bureau said it did not have enough evidence to conclude that the change in retail sales was ''different than zero.''
 The benchmark 10-year Treasury note also fell on Wednesday, down 9/32 to 100 18/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 3.93 percent, from 3.90 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Even promises of low prices, like this one in San Jose, Calif., have not been enough to get some consumers to spend more.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. C10) CHARTS: Retail Sales: Total retail and food services sales, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Commerce Department) Chart details bar graph for sales.
The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Chart details daily activity. (pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); IMPORT PRICES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); STATISTICS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (73%); JOB CREATION (71%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT MFG (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); SALES REBATES (58%); AGRICULTURE (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2008



330 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 515 words

 BODY:
WEAK SALES The Dow Jones industrials fell after the government reported that retail sales declined in July to their weakest levels in five months. 
 RETOOLING A PLANT Chrysler will revamp a Detroit factory to build a car-based crossover vehicle in response to a consumer shift away from larger, less fuel-efficient vehicles. [C1.] 
 UNDER THE RADAR Hudson City Savings Bank, one of the nation's largest savings institutions, prefers to operate as a mom-and-pop boutique, and it has racked up a market value of $10 billion. [C1.]
 A WOMAN'S VOICE Web sites aimed primarily at women grew 35 percent last year -- faster than every other category on the Web except politics, and drawing eager advertisers. [C1.]
 CHEAP SCANS ScanMyPhotos.com will professionally scan your photos, the same day it receives them, for a nickel each. Optional services are extra. State of the Art: David Pogue. [C1.]
 STUDIO CHIEF TO LEAVE Paula Wagner, who with producing partner Tom Cruise was recruited to revive the United Artists studio, is said to be planning to depart as chief executive. [C2.]
 SPAIN'S ECONOMIC HANGOVER With its construction industry falling into tatters, officials in Spain are re-examining the sustainability of the country's once-thriving economic model. [C3.]
 The Bank of England said it expected inflation to reach 5 percent and the economy to stagnate, and Japan said that the gross domestic product shrank in the second quarter. [C3.]
 BID REBUFFED The biotechnology giant Genentech rejected a $43.7 billion buyout offer from Roche, the Swiss pharmaceutical giant, but said it was open to a higher takeover bid. [C3.]
 TAX INQUIRY Top UBS executives were alerted that the bank's activities risked breaking United States laws, according to recently released internal letters, including one sent by Peter Kurer, above, now the bank's chairman. [C4.]
 DEATH AMID SCANDAL The head of China's food safety watchdog died after jumping from a building, a magazine reported, amid an inquiry into his finances. [C4.]
 SECURITIES FINE Credit Suisse Group said it reached a deal with a British regulator to pay a fine of $:5.6 million ($11.2 million) over the mispricing of some asset-backed securities. [C4.]
 ENERGY ALTERNATIVE Small-business owners who sell ground-source heat pumps report that demand for their systems and services has surged as energy costs have skyrocketed. [C5.]
 STAYING CONNECTED In a world of economic instability and corporate upheaval, savvy professionals are reconsidering social-networking sites like LinkedIn and Facebook. Basics. [C6.]
 SOFTWARE RULING In a victory for the free-software movement, a federal appeals court said that just because a software programmer gave his work away did not mean it was not protected. [C7.]
 TRADING OVERSIGHT Ten exchanges agreed to consolidate their insider-trading surveillance and investigation efforts, turning over the responsibility to two market watchdogs. [C10.]
 STAYING HOME THIS SUMMER Americans drove 12.2 billion fewer miles in June than they did a year earlier, the Federal Highway Administration said. [C10.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); SOCIAL MEDIA (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (69%); TAKEOVERS (69%); INSIDER TRADING (66%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (60%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); FOOD SAFETY (50%); APPEALS (50%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (82%); HUDSON CITY BANCORP INC (57%); BANK OF ENGLAND (54%); FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (82%); CS (NYSE) (82%); HCBK (NASDAQ) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (57%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (54%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (54%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: TOM CRUISE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPAIN (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2008



331 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: A Confrontation Over the Future of Willets Point

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
Supporters and foes of the Bloomberg administration's plan to turn gritty Willets Point in Queens into a $3 billion development of stores, offices and apartments faced off Wednesday in a confrontation that grew emotional and raucous at times.
 The City Council must decide this fall whether to approve the rezoning plan, which would require the removal of more than 200 small businesses, including auto-body shops and industrial outlets. 
 Thirty-two of the 51 council members sent a letter this week to the City Planning Commission, which held a public hearing on the plan on Wednesday, saying they would not vote for it unless significant changes were made. The commission will make a recommendation on the plan next month.
 The hearing combined public testimony on Willets Point and two other rezoning projects, on the Lower East Side of Manhattan and at south Hunters Point, along the East River in Queens. Opponents of the Lower East Side and Willets Point plans protested outside the auditorium where the hearing was held through most of the day. Councilman Hiram Monserrate led two dozen opponents of the Willets Point proposal two blocks east, to a spot in Washington Square Park, to confront city officials holding a news conference there.
 The opponents interrupted the news conference, which was organized by the city's Economic Development Corporation, and drowned out advocates for the proposal, chanting ''Justice for Willets Point!'' and ''Save Willets Point!''
 The police told the city economic development officials that they could not remove the protesters, saying they had a right to be there, even if they were being disruptive. 
 Rejection of a rezoning measure pushed by the mayor would be unusual; the Council typically agrees with mayoral plans, and the administration has rezoned one-sixth of the city since 2002. The recent rezoning of 125th Street in Harlem encountered similar resistance, but key opponents, mainly Councilwoman Inez E. Dickens, were won over after several modifications. 
 What is different this time is the organizational muscle of the opponents. In addition to the council members who have expressed concerns, a group of Willets Point property owners has hired a former Council speaker, Peter F. Vallone Sr., and a former mayoral candidate, Fernando Ferrer, to help them fight the plan.
 ''They have been floating this project for two years, and there are still questions that haven't been answered,'' Mr. Monserrate said.
 Bloomberg administration officials said on Wednesday that they would go ahead with the plan, and that they were trying to negotiate with Mr. Monserrate and others to win their support. One issue is affordable housing; council members have said more is needed, and city officials have said they are open to adding more homes for low-income families. 
 Another concern among the opponents is eminent domain. The city's deputy mayor for economic development, Robert C. Lieber, said in an interview that the city was trying to avoid using the procedure and was working to reach agreement with all the landowners at Willets Point, ''but at the end of the day, if there's one holdout, we'll resort to eminent domain if we have to.''
 Councilman Monserrate, who persuaded many of his colleagues to sign the letter, said in an interview, ''We have a real problem with a project that threatens to take property from the people who own it.''
 Mr. Monserrate's support may be crucial, since his district includes Willets Point and council members traditionally follow the lead of the one who represents the area to be rezoned. 
 ''If a compromise and a consensus is not reached, we will support Hiram, and what that means is that the zoning could be defeated,'' said Councilman Robert Jackson of Manhattan, who signed the letter. 
 At an unrelated public event on Wednesday, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg played down the Council opposition, saying, ''I think you will find virtually all of the City Council in the end signing on.''
 The mayor said that of the council members who signed the letter, ''there was nobody or almost nobody from Queens.'' In fact, 8 of the 14 members from Queens signed it. 
 At the City Planning Commission hearing, 54 people testified, 14 of whom spoke against the project. Proponents included union leaders, environmentalists, small-business owners and a representative of the Queens Chamber of Commerce.
 The area known as Willets Point occupies an oddly shaped triangle in northeastern Queens sandwiched between Shea Stadium and the Van Wyck Expressway, close to a stop on the No. 7 subway line. The area has no sidewalks, sewers or houses. Its perennially potholed roads are home to auto-body shops, scrap yards, towing companies and various other businesses, like a manufacturer of Indian spices. Much of the soil beneath the shops is contaminated with oil that leaks from junk cars.
 Under the rezoning plan, 5,500 homes would be built at the site, which comprises 62 acres. A fifth of the homes are supposed to be affordable to low-income families, although what the criteria will be for those who wish to live in those homes remains a matter of dispute. 
 As it stands, the plan calls for a hotel, convention center, offices and retail stores, which city officials say will create 5,300 jobs and generate $25 billion in economic activity over 30 years. 
 About 200 people attended the hearing, which was robust but not nearly as colorful as the scene outside, where a black garbage truck with a banner on its side reading, ''Mayor Mike Only Cares About His Rich Developer Friends,'' rode by repeatedly, tooting its horn.
 The Planning Commission has until the end of September to approve the plan. The proposal then would go before the City Council, which would be expected to vote on it by the end of November. That process is likely to be contentious.
 And on Wednesday, it was clear that emotions were already frayed. Claire Schulman, a former Queens borough president and a proponent of the Willets Point rezoning, was one of the speakers at the news conference organized by city economic officials. When Mr. Monserrate and his demonstrators arrived, she was forced to cut short her remarks. Before she walked away from the microphone, she grumbled, ''Shame on you, Hiram Monserrate.''
 The councilman seemed unfazed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A demonstration in Washington Square Park protested rezoning plans in Chinatown and on the Lower East Side in addition to the Willets Point plan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNIE TRITT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B1)
Willets Point, in northeastern Queens near Shea Stadium, is occupied by auto-body shops, scrap yards and towing companies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Willets Point rezoning foes at Washington Square. They want to keep the city from acquiring land under eminent domain. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNIE TRITT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ZONING (90%); CITIES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); EMINENT DOMAIN (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE BODY & INTERIOR REPAIR SHOPS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); FAMILY (65%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2008



332 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: To Reach Children, Publisher Tries Films

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN

 BODY:
When the children's book series ''The Spiderwick Chronicles'' became a popular Hollywood film, its publisher, Simon & Schuster, enjoyed a subsequent lift in book sales -- and little else. 
 But under a new deal with the Gotham Group, a Los Angeles-based management firm, the next time Simon & Schuster Children's Publishing owns the film rights to a book -- and that book is eventually turned into a movie -- the publisher will be promised its own piece of the pie.
 Simon & Schuster plans to test-drive the new deal with a middle-grade book series by the filmmaker David O. Russell, scheduled for publication in the fall of 2009. 
 ''It's about having more control in the process,'' said Rick Richter, president and publisher of Simon & Schuster Children's Publishing. ''Typically publishers tend to stick their heads in the sand after the book hits Hollywood.'' 
 In exchange for a percentage of the revenues, Simon & Schuster may agree to publish a book long before it is written, based on an assurance from the Gotham Group that it has Hollywood potential. 
 Simon & Schuster will also receive money when its children's books are turned into video games, comic books or other properties.
 ''Traditionally, the big incentive for them is hoping to sell books,'' said Ellen Goldsmith-Vein, president and chief executive of the Gotham Group, which has an exclusive partnership with Simon & Schuster. ''Now they're going into this, and there is already planted the notion of film and television and some other form of media. And the two go hand in hand.''
 Publishers and Hollywood producers refer to the arrangement as an ''end-in-mind relationship,'' where decisions on what is made into a book or pitched as a movie are made long before a book or a script is written. 
 Under the new arrangement, when the Gotham Group has a possible film project it can turn to Simon & Schuster and promise a percentage of its revenues -- anywhere from 5 to 25 percent, or potentially millions of dollars, Ms. Goldsmith-Vein said -- if the publisher agrees to turn it into a book. 
 With a percentage of the Gotham Group's share promised to the publisher, ''he might be willing to take that leap of faith'' on a book that might not otherwise have been published, she said. ''What we're really trying to do,'' Ms. Goldsmith-Vein said, is ''lock arms and sort of walk down the road together in terms of the economic incentive.'' 
 Mr. Russell's series, ''Alienated,'' is his first book project. He wrote the screenplays for his films ''I Huckabees'' and ''Three Kings,'' among others. 
 Mr. Russell said he became interested in writing for young teenagers partly because of the sway books like ''Huckleberry Finn'' and ''Lord of the Flies'' held over him when he was young. 
 ''It's a pretty strong period from your own life,'' said Mr. Russell, who also cited his 14-year-old son as an influence. ''In terms of taste, I would say the same things that enchant him are the same things that enchanted me.''
 With a co-writer, Craig DiGregorio, Mr. Russell has written several drafts of a script for an ''Alienated'' film, which could be produced in tandem with the book series. The story is centered on two children who work for ''an old tabloid that covers the world of freaks and aliens,'' he said. 
 ''I always liked the idea of playing with the idea of transformation and alien nature and freak nature,'' Mr. Russell said. ''I just want it to be really fun and really funny and be really original. I think that's the hardest thing to do.'' 
 Some children's authors, aware of the benefits of turning their books into multimedia properties, said they are taking a more active role in the film adaptation of their books, at the publisher's urging. 
 Tony DiTerlizzi, who wrote ''The Spiderwick Chronicles'' with Holly Black, said he tried early in the publishing process to develop the film at the same time. 
 ''It was almost like a tool to get the book launched and off the ground,'' he said of the movie. ''I knew also that financially this is where I would see my benefit: in having the film made.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David O. Russell is writing a film script for his book series. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); PUBLISHING (58%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2008



333 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. at Risk In House Races In the Northeast

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Across the increasingly Democratic Northeast, Republicans are in danger of losing half a dozen or more Congressional seats in November, as even districts once considered safe have become vulnerable to well-financed Democrats, according to political analysts and members of both parties.
In Connecticut, Representative Christopher Shays, a 10-term incumbent who barely won re-election two years ago, is facing what both parties and independent analysts agree is a tough battle.
On Staten Island, the retirement of Vito J. Fossella, who was arrested in Virginia on drunken-driving charges and later admitted to fathering a child in an extramarital affair, has combined with discord among local Republicans to give Democrats their best chance of winning the district in decades.
And in New Jersey, the retirement of two Republican incumbents, Michael Ferguson and Jim Saxton, opened seats in swing districts where Democratic candidates are far ahead of their Republican rivals in fund-raising. 
The Republican Party's challenges in the nine-state Northeast region are a reflection of what the party faces across the country as it is being forced to defend dozens of Congressional seats that are now considered competitive at a time when the party has limited financial resources, political analysts said.
All told, there are roughly a dozen competitive Congressional races in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Connecticut and New Hampshire, nearly all of them in districts now held by Republicans, according to analysts and strategists in both parties.
Meanwhile, all but 2 of the 11 Congressional Democrats who won office in 2006 in the Northeast appear headed into the general election campaign in a strong position, the analysts said.
This is a blow to Republicans because members of Congress are considered most vulnerable after their first term and Republicans had been expected to vigorously challenge freshmen lawmakers in the Northeast.
As a result, Democrats are in a strong position to expand their dominance in the Northeast region, where they already hold 60 of the 81 Congressional seats and hope to improve their numbers even further by aggressively contesting Republicans for eight more seats.
In the midterm elections of 2006, Democrats picked up 11 seats in the region.
''Republicans are playing defense in the Northeast,'' said Representative Peter T. King, a Republican from Long Island who is not facing a serious challenge this year. ''There could be a dramatic political realignment in the Northeast if Republicans don't head it off right now.''
Most of the Republican-held seats in the region that are being contested are in play as a result of retirements by longtime incumbents who managed to win re-election repeatedly despite large numbers of Democrats in their districts. At the same time, there are up to three Republican incumbents who face what Democratic and Republican strategists agree are difficult re-election campaigns.
Democrats are also being helped by a growing concern among voters about the state of the economy and continuing doubts about the war in Iraq, strategists say. Democrats are also doing very well in their fund-raising efforts. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee has $54.6 million on hand, compared with $8.4 million raised by the National Republican Congressional Committee.
Given the Republican Party's limited financial resources and the number of Republican incumbents with fights on their hands elsewhere in the country, it is unclear how aggressively party officials will be able to defend its open seats in Northeast, though the party says it will mount an all-out effort.
At this point in the campaign, it is expected that there will be competitive races in at least 60 Congressional districts nationwide, said David N. Wasserman, the House analyst for The Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan newsletter. Mr. Wasserman said most of those districts are held by Republicans.
That reflects the degree to which the party remains on the defensive after having lost its majority in 2006, when Republican candidates struggled against the weight of President Bush's unpopularity, a stream of bad news from Iraq and various Congressional scandals.
Mr. Wasserman said the challenge that Republicans face nationally is especially large in the Northeast because that is where polls show President Bush to be the most unpopular.
He said a stark sign of how hard the situation is for Republicans was on Staten Island, where several prominent Republicans declined to run for the seat vacated by Mr. Fossella, which had long been considered a virtual lock for Republicans.
''The exclamation point on this year's Congressional elections is that Republicans don't have a competitive candidate on Staten Island,'' Mr. Wasserman said. ''The Staten Island Republican Party has been renowned for producing powerful politicians for years -- for decades.''
But Republicans are not solely playing defense in the Northeast. They are taking aim at a handful of Democrat-held districts that independent analysts and even Democrats said Republicans have a shot of winning.
Among this group of vulnerable Democrats are two first-term members, Representative Christopher P. Carney of Pennsylvania and Carol Shea-Porter of New Hampshire. Republicans are also mounting a challenge against Representative Paul E. Kanjorski in Pennsylvania.
Republican hopes of toppling two Democratic freshmen in New York, Kirsten Gillibrand and Michael Arcuri, are less likely, political analysts said.
In the meantime, the unexpected retirements of five Republican congressmen, two from New Jersey and three from New York, have created prime opportunities for Democrats. The benefits of incumbency, including high visibility and access to federal money for their districts, had long protected these lawmakers in an increasingly Democratic region.
Perhaps no better example is Representative James T. Walsh, a 10-term Republican from New York who announced in January that he would retire when his term expired. Mr. Walsh has a key role over appropriations and is a fixture in his Syracuse-area district, making him a formidable candidate to challenge.
But with Mr. Walsh out of the way, Democrats appear to be in a strong position to pick up his seat, in part because of the fund-raising advantage held by Dan Maffei, the Democratic candidate. Mr. Maffei, who lost to Mr. Walsh by about 3,400 votes in 2006, has nearly $1 million in his campaign account, compared with nearly $110,000 raised by his Republican opponent, Dale Sweetland, a former county legislator.
In another sign of trouble for Republicans, there are two Congressional districts in which the party's incumbents stand only an even chance of holding on their seats, according to analysts monitoring the races.
One is Connecticut's Fourth Congressional District, where Mr. Shays, the Republican incumbent, has proved to be a nimble politician who has frustrated repeated attempts to defeat him.
Mr. Shays, the only House Republican in Connecticut to survive the 2006 elections, has survived largely by blurring any distinction between himself and Democrats in a district that has voted solidly Democratic in the last two presidential elections.
Now, he is being challenged by Jim Himes, a former Goldman Sachs executive. Mr. Himes has $1.4 million on hand, compared with $1.7 million for Mr. Shays, according to the latest campaign finance disclosure reports.
The other embattled Republican incumbent is Representative John R. Kuhl Jr. of New York's 29th District, in the state's Southern Tier. His Democratic opponent is Eric Massa, a former Navy officer and a former staff member of the House Armed Services Committee, whom Mr. Kuhl defeated two years ago with 52 percent of the vote. In a measure of the tightness of the race, Mr. Massa has $652,000 in his coffers, compared with nearly $619,000 for Mr. Kuhl.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS: A DEMOCRATIC STRONGHOLD: The nine Northeast states have been a bulwark of Democratic strength in Congress, and could become more so in the 2008 elections. (Source: Center for Responsive Politics) (pg.A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (79%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); ARRESTS (75%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (70%); FUNDRAISING (69%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%)

PERSON: VITO FOSSELLA (58%); PETER T KING (58%); JIM SAXTON (58%); CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (58%); MIKE FERGUSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2011



334 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1475 words

HEADLINE: Her Forced Retirement

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

DATELINE: GLOUCESTER, Mass. 

 BODY:
 THE call came late at night on the first Monday of January, delivering the news that Sigrid Olsen had feared for six months. Liz Claiborne Inc., after a review of its brands, was dismantling her 24-year-old fashion business, closing its 54 stores and laying off dozens of employees, including the designer herself.
 Ms. Olsen, who spends much of the year at her longtime home here, began to call her staff in New York to explain what was happening in advance of a corporate announcement that would be made the next day. But what she could not explain was what had led to the demise of a peppy brand with a passionate customer base and peak sales of about $100 million, or why the sputtering Liz Claiborne conglomerate, which had entertained offers for Ms. Olsen's label and others, had not chosen just to sell it.
 ''I thought that we were one of the brands they would want to keep and nurture,'' Ms. Olsen said. ''That was more shocking than anything.'' 
 It is a curious development in the fickle business of fashion that clothing labels like Ms. Olsen's, made by and for the baby boomer generation, are among those being hardest hit by the current economic turmoil and retail retrenchment. The restructuring of Liz Claiborne early this year also resulted in upheavals at more expensive labels: Ellen Tracy, which was sold; and Dana Buchman, which was pulled from department stores and will be remade more moderately for Kohl's. At the same time, retailers like Ann Taylor, Talbots and J. Jill have been closing hundreds of stores around the country, and the consolidation of department stores over the last decade has left many malls with more vacancies than options for the enormous demographic of women in their 40s to 60s.
 Her tale is in many ways emblematic of how those customers and the designers they favor are being pushed aside for a younger, trendier and more lucrative shopper. A vibrant 55-year-old, Ms. Olsen is coming to terms with the unceremonious end of her fashion career -- as the windows of the last remaining stores were papered over last month and the stock sold at discounts of 70 percent, including the hangars -- at the same time she is starting over as an artist and entrepreneur.
 SHE lives with her husband, Curtis Sanders, a former store owner and textile merchant, in a shingled house painted in tropical aqua with yellowish green trim, the tallest building at the center of an artists' colony that faces a working harbor on Rocky Neck Avenue. Every day at 11 a.m., she opens a bright gallery with her name painted over the threshold, selling cheerful watercolor prints on posters, stationery and ceramics, which evoke the colors and textures of the nearby rocky coast and the painterly late-day light of the North Shore.
 As the tourists walk by, their attention caught by the familiarity of the name, you can almost recognize the moment they make the connection to the fashion label that was only recently sold in thousands of stores around the country. Many of them stop by to inquire about what happened to Ms. Olsen's collection. Others, including more than 400 customers who have found Ms. Olsen through her Web site (sigridolsenart.com), sent letters of, for lack of a better word, condolence.
 ''I felt like it was an old friend put out to pasture,'' said Lucia Keenan, 55, in a telephone interview from her home in Tampa, Fla., where a Sigrid Olsen store closed this spring. Ms. Keenan, who has a closet filled with Ms. Olsen's casual knit sweaters and resort prints, compared the designer to Martha Stewart for the kind of loyalty and cult of personality that she engendered.
 ''She's one of us,'' Ms. Keenan said. ''Martha was going to show us how to do all these things with food and entertaining, and then we had Sigrid there helping to dress us.''
 Ms. Olsen, who began her career as an artist, creating her own clothes in styles that she personally found wearable and uplifting, said the fashion industry is now ignoring her generation because of a misperception that ''it's not sexy and fun.''
 But from a retailer's perspective, boomers' tastes and attitudes are so varied that their fashion choices are no longer age specific or dedicated to one designer, which is having an impact on where they shop.
 ''Speaking as a baby boomer, fashion is far more individual today,'' said Lavelle Olexa, a senior vice president at Lord & Taylor. ''That customer may find particular things that work in different lines, instead of saying blanket-wide, 'This is the label for me.' ''
 Ms. Olsen had started the company making hand-printed textiles in Rockport, Mass., often with leaves and shell shapes in blue and green patterns. The clothing that evolved had a beachy, resort feel and quickly became popular in small boutiques in the Sun Belt.
 ''It was her art speaking to you through her clothing,'' said Kathy Hazel, 66, of Miami. ''I would put on tops of hers and felt like I was wearing a piece of art.''
 But when the growing label was sold to Liz Claiborne in 1999, for a reported $54 million as part of a string of acquisitions, Ms. Olsen did not become rich because she was a minority owner in the venture with other partners. Her share was less than $2 million, she said, but she remained with the company as creative director. The line was introduced to larger department stores, alienating many of the small-town stores that helped make her popular in the first place, and then began to lose money after opening more than 50 of its own stores in a matter of three years.
 ''It was a hard transition,'' she said. ''We began to lose that personal touch. But what I gained was a different perspective, and playing with the big boys was something I enjoyed learning.''
 As the company expanded, however, quality began to deteriorate. Several design positions were moved to Hong Kong, while marketing remained in New York. Claiborne was also splitting the focus of its marketing and advertising between other brands it had bought with higher fashion profiles, like Lucky Jeans, Kate Spade and Juicy Couture. ''When Juicy came along, it was like the cute baby that takes everyone's attention,'' Ms. Olsen said. ''And we were like, 'Waaaaa! What about us?' ''
 ''Then things started declining almost immediately,'' she added. ''It was amazing. I've never seen anything tank so quickly in my whole life.'' 
 It is perhaps a testament to the upbeat spirit of Ms. Olsen's designs that she remained unfazed by the downturn of her business, which coincided with the discovery in 2005 that she had breast cancer, necessitating a lumpectomy, then a double mastectomy. She said was relieved to have a month off from work and that the plastic surgeon she had selected for breast reconstruction had, coincidentally, started her education at an art school.
 ''I never felt like I was in danger of losing my life,'' she said. ''I just knew that I had to go through this experience. Ultimately, it made me want to make sure that the years I have left I'm doing what makes me happy and that I don't have to spend a lot of time doing what other people tell me to do.''
 Once Liz Claiborne announced that the brand was among a group it was considering selling, Ms. Olsen became frustrated by the inability to control her own fate. Some companies expressed interest in buying the label, but the offers were deemed too low. Adding insult to injury, when Liz Claiborne closed the company, it retained the trademark and a noncompete agreement, so Ms. Olsen cannot design clothes at all until 2010 or, barring a development with Claiborne, under her name after that.
 ''And they're not even using it,'' Ms. Olsen said. ''My husband said, 'Pay them a licensing fee.' I'm not paying them a licensing fee. Who knows? They may just drop it if they can't do anything with it.''
 LIZ CLAIBORNE executives said they chose to keep their options open. ''Sigrid Olsen is an iconic brand that developed a remarkably strong consumer connection,'' said Natalie Kielian, a spokeswoman for Claiborne, in a written response to questions about its plans. ''For this reason, the brand is extremely valuable, and we look forward to finding the right path to optimize its value in the future.''
 Now having once escaped the corporate world, Ms. Olsen still seems to be caught in a struggle between a part of her that also wants to optimize the value of her name by pushing ahead with another lifestyle concept -- arranging women's retreats to encourage creative discussion or teaming up with a hotel to create a Sigrid Olsen resort experience -- and a part that wants to relax and let things happen as they may. 
 ''Being a child of the '60s, I still have that idealist in me that I think I can pull it all together and give people an uplifting, positive message,'' she said, ''and still be an entrepreneur and a capitalist at the same time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IT'S A NEW DAY
Sigrid Olsen is starting over as an artist and entrepreneur after her clothing label was closed by Liz Claiborne.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES, ABOVE AND RIGHT CENTER)
CHAIN REACTION: Sigrid Olsen, above, designs and sells watercolor prints, stationery and ceramics at her home gallery. Top, a Sigrid Olsen store is shut down at the Westchester Mall, and, at right, a 2004 advertisement for the label.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ABOVE, SUSAN STAVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
BOTTOM, ROCCO LASPATA)
 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES, ABOVE AND RIGHT CENTER)(pg. G10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (84%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); CLOTHING LABELS (77%); CLOSINGS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (66%); BABY BOOMERS (66%); WOMEN (65%)

COMPANY: FIFTH & PACIFIC COS INC (95%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF TEN (G10) (84%)

TICKER: FNP (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (95%); NAICS424320 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & FURNISHINGS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (95%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2008



335 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Downtowns Across the U.S. See Streetcars in Their Future

BYLINE: By BOB DRIEHAUS

DATELINE: CINCINNATI 

 BODY:
From his months-old French bistro, Jean-Robert de Cavel sees restored Italianate row houses against a backdrop of rundown tenements in this city's long-struggling Over-the-Rhine neighborhood. 
 He also sees a turnaround for the district, thanks to plans to revive a transit system that was dismantled in the 1950s: the humble streetcar line.
 ''Human beings can be silly because we move away from things too quickly in this country,'' Mr. de Cavel said. ''Streetcar is definitely going to create a reason for young people to come downtown.'' 
 Cincinnati officials are assembling financing for a $132 million system that would connect the city's riverfront stadiums, downtown business district and Uptown neighborhoods, which include six hospitals and the University of Cincinnati, in a six- to eight-mile loop. Depending on the final financing package, fares may be free, 50 cents or $1.
 The city plans to pay for the system with existing tax revenue and $30 million in private investment. The plan requires the approval of Mayor Mark Mallory, a proponent, and the City Council.
 At least 40 other cities are exploring streetcar plans to spur economic development, ease traffic congestion and draw young professionals and empty-nest baby boomers back from the suburbs, according to the Community Streetcar Coalition, which includes city officials, transit authorities and engineers who advocate streetcar construction. 
 More than a dozen have existing lines, including New Orleans, which is restoring a system devastated by Hurricane Katrina. And Denver, Houston, Salt Lake City and Charlotte, N.C., have introduced or are planning to introduce streetcars.
 ''They serve to coalesce a neighborhood,'' said Jim Graebner, chairman of the American Public Transportation Association's streetcar and vintage trolley committee. ''That's very evident in places like San Francisco, which never got rid of its streetcar system.'' 
 Modern streetcars, like those Cincinnati plans to use, cost about $3 million each, run on an overhead electrical wire and carry up to 130 passengers per car on rails that are flush with the pavement. And since streetcars can pick up passengers on either side, they can make shorter stops than buses.
 Streetcar advocates point to Portland, Ore., which built the first major modern streetcar system in the United States, in 2001, and has since added new lines interlaced with a growing light rail system. Since Portland announced plans for the system, more than 10,000 residential units have been built and $3.5 billion has been invested in property within two blocks of the line, according to Portland Streetcar Inc., which operates the system.
 Critics, including Randal O'Toole, a senior fellow at the Cato Institute, a libertarian research organization in Washington, and an expert on urban growth and transportation issues, counter that growth along streetcar lines is dependent on public subsidy and of little use.
 ''It looks like it's going to take you somewhere, but it's only designed to support downtown residents,'' he said. ''If officials fall for the hype and don't ask the hard questions, voters should vote them out.'' 
 Cincinnati's streetcar enthusiasts counter that they serve to shrink residents' everyday world of work, shopping and entertainment by bringing services and businesses to one area.
 ''One happy consequence will be that streetcar customers who live in the area will be less mobile by choice,'' said John Schneider, a Cincinnati real estate developer and downtown resident who championed an unsuccessful 2002 county sales tax proposal that would have financed a regional light rail system.
 Since then, gas prices have risen sharply and advocates have started emphasizing streetcars' ability to revitalize urban neighborhoods.
 ''In years gone by, people would move to cities to get a job,'' Cincinnati's city manager, Milton Dohoney, said. ''Today, young, educated workers move to cities with a sense of place. And if businesses see us laying rail down on a street, they'll know that's a permanent route that will have people passing by seven days a week.''
 After looking into streetcar systems in Seattle, Tacoma, Wash., and Charlotte, Mr. Dohoney became convinced that they spur growth. ''Cincinnati has to compete with other cities for investment,'' he said. ''We have to compete for talent and for place of national prominence.''
 A hundred miles north, Mayor Michael Coleman of Columbus, Ohio, has come to the same conclusion and is pushing to build a $103 million streetcar network along the city's High Street connecting Ohio State University with the downtown business district. The loop would be paid for through a 4 percent surcharge on concert tickets, sporting events and downtown parking and a $12.5 million contribution from Ohio State.
 ''It is directly tied to economic development, and when times are tough in Ohio, we need an additional tool to create jobs,'' Mr. Coleman said.
 While critics question whether scarce city money would be better spent elsewhere, Mr. Coleman argues that streetcars are important to the city's growth.
 ''We have to plan for the future,'' he said. ''I believe in 10 years, we would ask, 'Why didn't we do this?' It will be 10 times more expensive, and the cost of gas will be unaffordable.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PORTLAND, ORE.: Advocates say streetcars have revived surrounding areas.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DON RYAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
NEW ORLEANS: Still restoring a system devastated by Hurricane Katrina.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LEE CELANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
SAN FRANCISCO: One of the few cities that never gave up on streetcars.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES)
 PORTLAND, ORE.: The city's maintenance yard. Cincinnati's new $132 million system will use the same kind of streetcars. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL MOOSE/GLASERWORKS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); HURRICANES (73%); SUBURBS (72%); MAYORS (71%); APPROVALS (69%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (68%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (67%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (66%); HURRICANE KATRINA (64%); US LIBERTARIAN PARTY (63%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (54%); BABY BOOMERS (51%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%); TROPICAL STORMS (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION ASSOCIATION (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (94%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (94%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2008



336 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Around the World, Pessimism About the Economy

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY; Martin Foster and Thomas Fuller contributed reporting.

 BODY:
More signs of the economic slowdown appeared Wednesday in Asia and Europe. 
 In Europe, the Bank of England offered a pessimistic outlook for the rest of the year, saying that it expected inflation to hit 5 percent because of energy and food prices and the economy to stagnate. And in Asia, Japan appears to be flirting with a recession, government data showed Wednesday.
 ''The numbers were awful,'' Hideo Kumano, chief economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo, said after the Japanese government reported that the gross domestic product shrank at an annual 2.4 percent rate in the three months that ended June 30. ''Things are going to be very tough in the second half of the year.'' 
 Even as commodity prices are beginning to ease, the credit and housing crises in the United States, coupled with the highest inflation in a generation, are weighing on consumers.
 In Europe, where new figures on the overall economy are to be released on Thursday, analysts are expecting more bad news as well.
 ''It may still just be summer, but there is a feeling of chill in the economic air,'' Mervyn King, the governor of the Bank of England, said Wednesday after the central bank issued its pessimistic outlook. He said the British economy was going through ''a difficult and painful adjustment.''
 The euro zone, which six months ago appeared to be sailing clear of America's problems, now appears to have been ensnared. A poll of economists by Reuters predicted that the new reports would show that the region's economy fell 0.2 percent in the second quarter compared with the previous quarter. First-quarter growth was 0.7 percent.
 As for Japan, Mr. Kumano said the most serious threat came from a sharp decline in personal income, which fell 4 percent. He said he now expected growth in the fiscal year, which runs through next March, to be 0.6 percent at best, down from a previous forecast of 1.2 percent.
 The rest of Asia, including China, will not be immune to the slowdown in the major economies, he said.
 The International Monetary Fund, which considers growth of 3 percent or less in the world's gross domestic product to be a recession, estimated July 17 that the global economy would grow 4.1 percent in 2008 and 3.9 percent in 2009, slowing from 4.5 percent growth in the first quarter of 2008. But many private sector economists say those forecasts look overly optimistic.
 ''It's a race against time'' whether the global economy ends up in a recession, Gilles Moec, an economist at Bank of America in London, said. ''Japan and Europe had been seen as protected from the U.S. slowdown. Strangely enough, it seems that Europe and Japan are paying the price now.''
 He said unlike in the United States, where the Federal Reserve has sharply cut interest rates since the start of the credit crisis, to 2 percent from 5.25 percent, the policy response among other central banks might not have been aggressive enough to support growth.
 The Bank of Japan, which has not raised its main rate target above 0.5 percent since 1995, has ''exhausted its room to maneuver,'' he said, while the Bank of England and the European Central Bank, with key rates at 5 percent and 4.25 percent, respectively, have chosen to focus on inflation rather than faltering growth.
 There are some positive signs. Mr. Moec said the recent decline in the price of oil and other commodities provided grounds for hope that things would begin picking up by the end of the year. But oil prices rose more than $2 a barrel on Wednesday after falling to about $113 on Tuesday, down from a peak above $147 a barrel last month.
 If prices for oil and other commodities fall, companies may remain confident enough about the outlook to avoid serious cuts in payrolls, and the worst will be avoided in the major economies, Mr. Moec said.
 The I.M.F. made its forecast in July when oil prices were at their peak, Mr. Moec said, noting that Bank of America's own forecasts called for 2008 growth of 3.2 percent and 2009 growth of 3 percent.
 ''Everything depends on oil,'' Mr. Moec added.
 The United States remains a question mark. The American economy grew at a 1.9 percent annualized rate in the second quarter, a disappointing performance considering the billions of dollars of government stimulus checks that went out to consumers during the period.
 ''We don't really see an upturn yet,'' the chief executive of General Motors, Rick Wagoner, said Wednesday during an interview in Bangkok, adding: ''To be honest, the way the market has run in the last couple of months, I think it's far better to be conservative than to be surprised.''
 In Tokyo, officials were optimistic, despite Wednesday's data. The economics minister, Kaoru Yosano, said the weakness resulted mainly from external factors like high oil prices, but said the economy would bounce back.
 ''Even though the economy contracted in April-June, it would be more accurate to think that it won't last long,'' Reuters quoted him as saying.
 Japan's real G.D.P. fell 0.6 percent in the latest quarter compared with the first three months of 2008, the biggest decline since 2001. And unlike many Western banks, Japanese lenders appear to be in relatively solid shape after a decade of restructuring, and a worsening economy may not weigh heavily on their balance sheets.
 The slowdown is real enough for consumers. 
 ''I lost three clients in June,'' said Kozo Kimura, 40, a personal trainer in Tokyo. ''I'm at the end of the food chain and am easy to dispose of.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''There is a feeling of chill in the economic air,'' said Mervyn King of the Bank of England.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS RATCLIFFE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); RECESSION (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); GLOBALIZATION (84%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); EURO ZONE (73%); FOOD PRICES (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); MONETARY UNIONS (65%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (58%); DAI-ICHI LIFE INSURANCE CO (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%)

TICKER: 8750 (TSE) (57%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) EUROPE (95%); JAPAN (95%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2008



337 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Aiming to Keep Pace, Chrysler Is Shrinking S.U.V.'s

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY and BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
TRAVERSE CITY, Mich. -- In the latest sign of the burial of the era of the S.U.V., Chrysler announced Wednesday that it would spend $1.8 billion to convert a Detroit automotive plant from producing traditional Jeep Grand Cherokees to making more fuel-efficient, car-based crossovers.
General Motors and Ford Motor have made similar moves recently. Chrysler's decision also partly reflects the slumping sales of the Grand Cherokee, an original symbol of the age of the sport utility vehicle, created in the 1990s. 
Chrysler did not detail what vehicles it will produce beginning in 2010 at the Detroit plant, which will also add some green energy features. In announcing the plan at an industry conference here, however, Thomas W. LaSorda, a Chrysler vice chairman, said the new products would be ''of various sizes and dimensions'' and represent an ''evolution'' of the older, gas-guzzling Jeep.
The shift from larger trucks and S.U.V.'s to smaller, more fuel-efficient cars and lightweight crossovers was the overwhelming theme of the industry conference put on by the Center for Automotive Research, a consulting firm based in Ann Arbor, Mich.
For instance, a top Ford executive spelled out more of his company's strategic moves away from large vehicles.
Ford, which lost a record $8.7 billion in the second quarter, announced plans last month to convert three of its North American assembly plants from truck-based products to cars. The company also said it would bring six of its European car and crossover models to the United States to offset the damaging effect of rising gas prices on domestic sales.
In a speech at the conference, Mark Fields, president of Ford's Americas division, said the automaker expected its compact car sales to nearly double to 2 million, from 1.1 million, within five years.
Mr. Fields said the forthcoming models would command higher prices than current small cars and help the company return to profitability.
All the Detroit automakers, as well as Toyota, have drastically cut production of the larger vehicles. Sales of sport utility vehicles have fallen 34 percent this year and full-size pickups have declined 25 percent, according to data compiled by the trade journal Ward's Automotive Reports.
For the longer term, G.M., Ford and Chrysler need to redirect investment from pickups and S.U.V.'s into cars and car-based crossovers. But as they do so, the companies face a difficult transition over the next few years.
Unlike G.M. and Ford, Chrysler, which is privately held by Cerberus Capital Management, has shared little information about its product direction.
But Mr. LaSorda said Wednesday that Chrysler was moving aggressively to bring more fuel-efficient cars to market.
He said the company had formed a venture with Nissan Motor to source a new subcompact car from the Japanese automaker. And he said the company's new Dodge Journey crossover was being well received by consumers.
Still, Chrysler's overall sales have suffered greatly this year from the twin impact of a soft economy and $4-a-gallon gas. Over all, United States car sales are down 11 percent through July. Chrysler's sales, by comparison, have slipped 23 percent.
No vehicle illustrates Chrysler's downturn more than the Grand Cherokee, a stylish sport utility vehicle that was an immediate hit when it arrived in 1992. Unlike competing models from G.M. and Ford, the Grand Cherokee had a so-called unibody construction rather than a body mounted on a truck frame.
However, the rugged Jeep model was hardly an improvement over other S.U.V.'s in terms of gas mileage. A current Grand Cherokee equipped with a six-cylinder engine averages about 15 miles to the gallon in city driving and 19 miles on the highway.
In July, sales of the Grand Cherokee fell 48 percent and Chrysler's overall United States market share slipped below 9 percent.
China Alters Car Tax
HONG KONG -- The Chinese finance ministry and the state administration of taxation announced on Wednesday that they would revamp taxes on cars starting on Sept. 1 to increase the incentive for buyers to choose fuel-efficient models.
The tax, technically a consumption tax, on cars with an engine of 1 liter or less will fall to 1 percent, from 3 percent now, according to the official Xinhua news service. The tax on family vehicles with an engine size of 3 to 4 liters will rise to 25 percent, from 15 percent.
The tax on models with an engine size of more than 4 liters -- mainly sports cars, sport utility vehicles and a few luxury cars -- will double, to 40 percent.
The measures reflect a national policy of slowing China's ever-rising oil consumption. A side effect of the new regulations may be to help Chinese manufacturers, which tend to make smaller cars with less powerful engines.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thomas W. LaSorda, a Chrysler vice chairman, said the new vehicles would be an ''evolution'' of the Grand Cherokee.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); TRADE SHOWS (88%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); PICKUP TRUCKS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); NEW PRODUCTS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (72%); PRICE CHANGES (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); PRICE INCREASES (63%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (58%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); 7201 (TSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); TRAVERSE CITY, MI, USA (74%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2011



338 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: Apartment Developer Is Sued Over Access for the Disabled

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
The Justice Department filed a federal lawsuit in Manhattan on Wednesday against AvalonBay Communities, one of the largest apartment developers in the United States, accusing the company of illegally discriminating against disabled people by failing to provide them with sufficient access at a 361-unit rental building on the Lower East Side.
 In a statement, the United States attorney's office for the Southern District of New York said the case was ''the government's first lawsuit in Manhattan alleging violations of the Fair Housing Act in the design and construction of multifamily housing.'' 
 The lawsuit concerns Avalon Chrystie Place, at 229 Chrystie Street, between East Houston and Stanton Streets. Opened in 2005 at a cost of $149 million, it was constructed on a formerly desolate site in what was known as the Cooper Square Urban Renewal Area. A Whole Foods Market is on the ground level of the building, which includes a rooftop deck, a fitness center and a residents' lounge with a pool table. 
 The seven-page complaint, filed in United States District Court, says the building has common areas that are inaccessible to the disabled. Furthermore, federal prosecutors said in a statement, the building ''lacks routes into and through dwellings, reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow the installation of grab bars, and kitchens and bathrooms usable by a person in a wheelchair.''
 Along with AvalonBay, the complaint names several of the company's subsidiaries and development partners, including SLCE Architects, a Manhattan-based design firm.
 The Fair Housing Act of 1968 was expanded in 1991 to require that the design and construction of new housing accommodate people with disabilities. AvalonBay has faced several suits brought by the Equal Rights Center, a fair-housing group based in Washington, asserting that the developer has failed to follow the law. (The Justice Department has filed papers supporting the center in those cases.)
 In a statement, Fred Harris, senior vice president of AvalonBay, a real estate investment trust based in Alexandria, Va., said, ''Contrary to the Department of Justice allegations, Avalon Chrystie Place was designed and constructed, and is operated, with a view to full compliance with all accessibility codes and laws.'' He said the project complied with Local Law 58, a New York City statute that he said ''has long been understood to satisfy the accessibility requirements of both federal and local law.''
 James Davidson, a partner at SLCE Architects, said, ''We as a firm feel we have been complying with Local Law 58 and the accessibility standards, as we understand them.'' 
 The federal complaint seeks a court order barring the developer ''from designing or constructing multifamily housing in the future that does not contain the accessibility features required by federal law.'' It also seeks monetary damages to compensate victims and a civil penalty.
 ''Housing must be available to all Americans without regard to disability,'' Michael J. Garcia, the United States attorney in Manhattan, said in a statement. ''We will continue to pursue those who fail to design and construct accessible housing as required by federal law.'' 
 Two assistant United States attorneys, Susan E. Light and Brian M. Feldman, are handling the case for the Justice Department. 
 Michael G. Allen, a lawyer in Washington who works with the National Fair Housing Alliance, an advocacy group that is not involved in the case, said that developers had often flouted the 1991 requirements even though following them would add only a small amount to building costs.
 ''I can only conclude that after 17 years of outreach, education and enforcement that people who make these mistakes make them knowingly,'' he said in a phone interview. 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 16, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article in some editions on Thursday about a federal lawsuit that accused a developer, AvalonBay Communities, of failing to provide sufficient access to the disabled at an apartment building in Manhattan misstated the given name of one of the prosecutors handling the case. She is Sarah E. Light, not Susan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISABLED PERSONS (91%); LITIGATION (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); DISABLED ACCESS (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); DAMAGES (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (70%); HOUSING STARTS (70%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (67%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (50%)

COMPANY: AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES INC (84%); WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%); US ATTORNEY'S OFFICE FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK (57%)

TICKER: AVB (NYSE) (84%); WFM (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (84%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (56%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2008



339 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2267 words

HEADLINE: At Home on the Road

BYLINE: By JOYCE WADLER

 BODY:
ELLENSBURG, Wash.
IT'S the rare homeowner who has not dreamed now and then of walking away from the mortgage and the yardwork and taking to the open road.
Trudy Lundgren, once a graphic artist in Lower Manhattan, and her partner, Lisa Wade, a sales representative, were no exception. Their one-bedroom apartment in a Chelsea brownstone was charming, but the noise and pressure of New York City was grinding them down. Living in an R.V. was something they'd talked about for years -- not for just a few meager weeks in summer when the crowds in Yosemite are so deep you might as well be in Times Square, but full-time living and working on the road.
Four years ago, they made it happen. They sold their apartment and moved into a vintage 40-foot motor home with a queen-size bed, drapes that can be opened with a flick of a switch and a kitchen bigger and better designed than the one they had in New York. They have regular work selling and designing ads for R.V. parks, which enables them to stay in parks rent-free and set their own hours. 
Their travels these days, as Ms. Lundgren described them, involve gorgeous scenery, adventure, and a cast of ever-changing characters: a sort of endless summer, on the road. In early August, after gigs that had taken them from Arizona to California, they were in Leavenworth, a town in the Cascade Mountains that had remade itself as a Bavarian village. (No, not tacky, Ms. Lundgren said. Well, maybe a little, but a spectacular setting of firs and lakes.) They could meet the reporter at their next stop, a motor home park 80 miles away in Ellensburg, adjacent to the Days Inn.
In fact, the R.V. park turned out to be in the Days Inn parking lot: A large paved lot behind the motel with space for 80 R.V.'s with the charm of a suburban mall and barely enough grass to feed a rabbit. The only landmark of note on the horizon was the truck stop down the road, where several 18-wheelers were parked.
Ms. Lundgren was seated outside her van at a small table.
''So where's the burbling brook?'' the reporter asked.
The look that followed suggested that this was not the best opener.
''Too bad you didn't get here last week; we were in the forest,'' Ms. Lundgren said finally. ''You don't get the total R.V. thing here. This is like a parking lot. But it is what it is.''
Life on the road, which has in many ways lived up to the dreams of the couple, has also been a challenge. The early jobs they found were often physically draining and paid minimum wage.
Falling in love with a vintage motor home turned out to be as fraught as falling in love with a Victorian house, and nearly as expensive. It was a money pit on wheels.
The couple's 1985 Blue Bird Wanderlodge was 19 years old when they bought it, the equivalent of 190 in house years. Repairs and improvements the first year cost $21,000. Four years after going on the road, the couple have $32,000 in debts they have been able to start paying off only this year.
There are no hard figures on how many Americans choose to live full-time in motor homes. The Recreation Vehicles Industry Association, hardly a disinterested source, estimates it at 400,000. Sue Bray, the executive director of the Good Sam Club, which has one million member families and claims to be the largest R.V. club in the world, estimates that 70,000 of the club's member's are full-timers. How many R.V. full-timers work on the road, she does not know.
Ms. Lundgren, 57, and Ms. Wade, 49, may be a bit younger than many of the R.V. full-timers, but wanderlust, of the Route 66, hidden America sort, is something they both share. Both consider the road trips they took with their parents when they were young the happiest times in their childhoods.
Beyond that, the couple, who have been together 12 years, are a study in contrasts.
Ms. Lundgren, who was wearing black jeans and a black T-shirt when a visitor stopped by, is warm, frank and game. Finding herself in an R.V. park clubhouse with an 80-year-old female stride piano player and many older extra ladies, Ms. Lundgren danced with them all. (''Because I know how to lead, my dance card was full all afternoon,'' she wrote in one of her regular e-mail dispatches to friends, which she is thinking of turning into a book.)
Her partner is pale, blond, petite and reserved. On a recent morning, she went off to seek advertisers in a crisp white shirt and tan trousers, carrying a briefcase. Seeing her, you'd assume she'd gotten dressed in a suburban house, not a motor home (which has full-length mirrors in both the bedroom and bathroom). Their feelings about New York City are also very different.
For Ms. Lundgren, who grew up in Southern California and has a degree in psychology from George Washington University, New York was the city where she bloomed. She visited New York as a trombone player with a Washington, D.C., gay marching band for Gay Pride Day in 1979, fell in love with the New York band member who was her host, and moved to the city the following year. She created her own business, Pro-Type Graphics. In the mid '90s, she bought a one-room apartment on West 20th Street in Chelsea, with a skylight and fireplace, for $92,000. Measured generously, it was 500 square feet.
Ms. Wade, who grew up in Kansas and has a degree in music from Pittsburg State University, was a flight attendant when she was assigned to New York City. She hated it. The couple talked about going on the road from the day they met, but they thought of it as something they would do in retirement. The attacks of September 11 not only drove Ms. Lundgren into a six-month drinking binge and then therapy, but reduced the couple's combined income to about $60,000, which made them decide to do it sooner.
Ms. Lundgren and Ms. Wade spent three years researching. They visited the sites of the Escapees and the Good Sam R.V. clubs. They signed up with Workamper News, an online job resource for R.V. full-timers. They went to R.V. shows and drew up a list of requirements: A 40-foot bus with space for an office and two computers, because Ms. Lundgren hoped to keep her business going from the road. They wanted a Blue Bird Wanderlodge. Their rule was that an owner had to be able to explain every working part. Otherwise, they felt, it was unlikely that the R.V. had been well maintained.
They looked at 11 vans, finally settling on one in Texas. The price was $72,500, with an additional $5,000 for the 2000 Toyota RAV4 that had been hauled behind it. The owner, an airline pilot, flew Ms. Lundgren to Texas to look it over. Having it inspected by a professional was something that never occurred to her.
In Chelsea, meanwhile, prices had been skyrocketing. Ms. Lundgren sold her apartment in the spring of 2004 for $375,000. After buying the R.V. with cash, paying off the mortgage, and setting up a retirement account, they had $40,000 for their first year. Diesel fuel was $1.65 a gallon, and although the R.V. got between 6 and 8 miles to the gallon, they figured they would be fine.
In July 2004, the couple took possession of their motor home in Texas. Their official address was now 139 Rainbow Drive, Livingston, Tex. -- the headquarters of the Escapees R.V. Club, which claims to have the largest registered mail forwarding service in the country, forwarding mail for 10,000 subscribers The couple had learned in their research that Texas was a good place to have an address, because it has no state income tax.
Ms. Lundgren's R.V. updates to their friends back home were rich with colorful characters and beautiful country: the biker turned R.V. full-timer who traveled with a Shih Tzu named Rosie and when intoxicated recited ''The Shooting of Dan McGrew''; the evening at the rodeo at which the cowgirl who galloped into the ring standing up on the horse carrying the Stars and Stripes was Tonya Harding.
There were also e-mail messages about the more traditional pleasures of R.V. living.
''Here it is our last night in Dallas and we are enjoying our campground for one last night. I am cooking dinner over an open wood fire. There's a beautiful sunset to my right and a perfect view of the lake to my left.''
Unfortunately, there were also major problems with the R.V. In the Days Inn parking lot, with the two frisky dachshunds they acquired on the road and a 12-year-old tabby who is none too happy with both the canine and human interlopers, the women enumerate the expenses: $100 apiece for six R.V. batteries; $3,000 for a charger; $1,000 for new air-conditioning; $3,000 for new radiator hoses; $500 for a water heater; $1,000 for two new tires -- $13,400 for essential repairs within the first year. Then there was a car accident with an uninsured motorist that cost them $900. There were also some purchases that they now consider extravagant: the $2,000 flat-screen TV; the $5,000 satellite system; $5,000 for new computers.
The women took a six-week park manager's training course with the Escapees R.V. Club so that they could live rent-free in exchange for working 20 hours a week. Since the program did not pay cash, they took turns working at outside jobs. Ms. Lundgren and Ms. Wade had thought about what those jobs might be before going on the road; their descriptions of them sound like something one might have seen on a dusty calendar in a back road garage on a road trip in the 1960s. ''I wanted to pump gas in a vintage gas station and wear the cute little outfit,'' Ms. Wade says. ''I thought working in a carnival would be fun.''
The jobs they found were often hard and paid minimum wage: standing for long hours as a Wal-Mart clerk; working the morning shift at McDonald's. They'd hoped to travel to Alaska, but fuel would cost a few thousand dollars. Most of Ms. Lundgren's clients, unhappy that she was no longer 10 blocks away, slipped away themselves. Their credit card debt reached $30,000, and Ms. Lundgren borrowed $12,000 from her mother.
A year and a half ago, they found work with AGS Publishing, which creates maps of R.V. parks. Ms. Wade sells advertising; Ms. Lundgren designs ads. The job gives them a free site and utilities at the parks where they work, as well as commissions, which this year were about $36,000, according to Ms. Lundgren. The job has helped them reduce their credit card debt to $20,000. It also enables them to deduct their motor home expenses on their federal income taxes.
''Now instead of driving a big old money pit, we drive a big old tax deduction,'' Ms. Lundgren says.
Diesel fuel, which has risen by $2 a gallon since the women went on the road, has not been a major problem. With a 300-gallon tank (which could cost nearly $1,200 to fill at today's prices) they buy fuel only when the price is right. Also, time is elastic for the couple; they are not constrained by a two-week vacation.
They've found other ways to economize. They buy clothes in thrift shops and get their haircuts at beauty schools. They permit themselves only two meals out a week. And they remain convinced that their motor home is providing a wonderful life.
''Living in an R.V. park is pretty stress-free,'' Ms. Lundgren says. ''You don't have to worry about crime, you don't have to worry about getting packed into the subway, we get to have campfires almost every night if we want.''
Sure, but meanwhile, they're in a parking lot.
''For this particular job,'' Ms. Lundgren says. ''But guess what? It's only going to be for two weeks. One of the last ones, we were in Pacifica, California, on a cliff, looking right down to the ocean.''
And how long will they stay on the road?
''As far as I'm concerned, until I'm so old I can't lift my briefcase anymore,'' Ms. Wade says.
''As long as our health holds out,'' says Ms. Lundgren.
Highway Life Made Easier
IF you've ever wondered about life on the road, there are several R.V. clubs and organizations that offer information about it.
The Good Sam Club (www.goodsamclub.com), with a membership of about 1 million families, offers a 10 percent discount at 1,700 parks in the United States and Canada, along with travel tips and other benefits.
The Escapees R.V. Club (escapees.com), with about 35,000 families as members, provides discounts to some 1,000 commercial R.V. parks. The club owns a number of parks, some of which offer leases for up to five years, and it has a mail-forwarding service.
Workamper News has been a job resource for the R.V. community for 20 years. The editor, Steve Anderson, says he works with about 5,000 employers. They include the Army Corps of Engineers, for campsite work; the Southern Cross Corporation, which hires people to walk and inspect its gas lines; Disney World; and Amazon, which needs help during its Christmas rush.
Workamper News also represents Air Photo, a company in Washington State that takes aerial photos of homes and sends them to R.V. users, who sell them door-to-door.
A one-year subscription to Workamper News, which includes online access and a magazine subscription, is $42 (www.workamper.com).
The soaring price of fuel has not dampened the enthusiasm of many full-time R.V. campers. Kevin Read and his wife, Ruth, from suburban Ottawa, have been on the road since October 1997. They have traveled across Canada to Vancouver, south to Cabo San Lucas, Mexico, then back across North America and up the East Coast to Nova Scotia.
''We've done 15,000 miles in nine months and have spent $5,571 on gasoline, an average of $619 a month,'' Mr. Read wrote in an e-mail message. ''Here's the way we look at it: Most people have a regular job and spend about $400 a month seeing the same 20-mile route day after day. We spend slightly more than that seeing of all of North America.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ESCAPE FROM NEW YORK: Lisa Wade, at left below, and her partner, Trudy Lundgren, traded a 500-square-foot Manhattan apartment for a motor home. Above, cruising near Leavenworth, Wash.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN P. CASEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (F1)
THERE'S ALSO A CAT: LisaWade, left, with the couple's young dachshunds, and Trudy Lundgren, right, at an R.V. park behind a Days Inn in Washington, say their 1985 Blue Bird Wanderlodge has cost them thousands of dollars in repairs, but the kitchen is better than the one they had in Chelsea, and so are the views from their windows.
 FAMILY SNAPSHOTS: At play, from Arches National Park in Utah, left and above, to Hobo Hot Springs, Wyo., to Northern California.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN P. CASEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); MOUNTAINS (64%); MINIMUM WAGE (60%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2011



340 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: Credit Card Rules, From Two Perspectives

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Your editorial about the Federal Reserve's proposed rules for credit cards (''Listen to the 56,000,'' Aug. 6) correctly notes that the industry is concerned that this regulation could limit the availability of credit for American consumers. But we think that the negative effect on consumers runs much deeper. 
 By limiting the ability of card issuers to effectively manage risk, these proposals will unfairly force people who manage their credit well to subsidize those who do not. And since the vast majority of cardholders manage their credit well, the result will be higher prices for nearly everyone.
 By driving the cost of credit up, the proposals will also make credit cards less attractive to countless small businesses that use them for short-term financing. 
 The current proposals threaten to turn the clock back to when average interest rates were near 20 percent, all cardholders paid annual fees, and only the privileged few could qualify for a credit card.
 Policy makers should be wary of the very real potential for these proposals to reduce the availability of credit and increase its costs -- especially at a time when consumers, small businesses and the economy in general can least afford it.
 Edward Yingling President and Chief Executive American Bankers Association Washington, Aug.
 8, 2008
 To the Editor:
 ''Bait and switch'' and obscure disclosures are the top two classic approaches to consumer fraud. Unfortunately, these have become common practices in the credit card industry. The time has come to apply these and other lessons learned from the mortgage crisis to the consumer credit marketplace.
 Financial empowerment is integral to the Bloomberg administration's anti-poverty efforts under its Center for Economic Opportunity. The Department of Consumer Affairs' Office of Financial Empowerment submitted comments supporting proposed Federal Reserve Board regulations on deceptive credit card and overdraft practices but also called for more reform. 
 The real fix is actually pretty simple: the rates and terms that lead a consumer to select a credit card should be changeable only if that consumer expressly agrees. If the offer is fair and competitive, consumers will agree and the market will work fairly. 
 Anything else -- bewildering disclosures and theoretical ''opt out'' periods -- are by design unfair.
 Jonathan Mintz Commissioner, New York City Department of Consumer Affairs New York, Aug.
 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (65%); CITY GOVERNMENT (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2008



341 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Israelis as Friends? Iran Legislators Say No

BYLINE: By NAZILA FATHI

DATELINE: TEHRAN 

 BODY:
There are some things, Iran's Parliament has decided, that a public official should simply not be allowed to say -- especially in reference to Israel. 
 Threats of a ''crushing response'' to Israeli aggression seem to be fine, as a representative of Iran's supreme leader recently demonstrated. But suggesting that Iran is a friend of the Israeli people, well, that is an ''unforgivable mistake,'' Parliament declared Wednesday. 
 In a statement signed by some 200 members of the 290-seat assembly, Iranian lawmakers called on President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to dismiss Esfandiar Rahim Mashai, the vice president for tourism, after he repeated on Sunday his earlier comment that ''we are a friend of all people in the world, even Israelis and Americans.'' 
 In his comments, Mr. Mashai, a political ally of Mr. Ahmadinejad and one of his in-laws, specified ''for a thousandth time'' that his country was against Israel, not Jews.
 But Parliament was not placated. ''We do not recognize a country called Israel and so we cannot recognize a nation called Israel,'' the lawmakers said in their statement, according to Fars, the semiofficial Iranian news agency. 
 ''If Mr. Mashai does not have the political awareness that the Israeli people are the same people who have occupied the homes of millions of innocent and oppressed Palestinians and have created the army of the Zionist regime, he has no right to hold such a position,'' the statement added. 
 Mr. Mashai, whose daughter recently married Mr. Ahmadinejad's son, was the second member of Mr. Ahmadinejad's cabinet to come under fire by Parliament this week. 
 Parliament also ordered an investigation into the academic credentials of Ali Kordan, the interior minister who was approved by lawmakers this month despite great opposition. He secured the post only after Mr. Ahmadinejad said he had the personal backing of the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. 
 The Interior Ministry is in a delicate position because the minister would be responsible for carrying out the presidential elections in 2010.
 Mr. Kordan had claimed that he had obtained an honorary doctorate from Oxford in 2000 for ''opening a new chapter'' in comparative legal studies.
 But one of Mr. Ahmadinejad's opponents in Parliament, Ahmad Tavakoli, inquired about the authenticity of Mr. Kordan's degree from the university and posted the answer on his Web site.
 ''The University of Oxford has no record of Mr. Ali Kordan receiving an honorary doctorate or any other degree from the university,'' according to a letter from the university posted on the Web site. It also said that the professors who had signed Mr. Kordan's certificate did not work in the field of law or ever signed certificates. 
 Mr. Kordan has served in high positions in government, but his critics say his education amounts to only a midlevel college diploma. 
 The government retaliated by blocking the Web site, and Mr. Ahmadinejad said that Mr. Kordan should not be judged based on a ''piece of torn paper.''
 Parliament was elected in March and is dominated by conservative politicians, many of whom criticize Mr. Ahmadinejad's policies. 
 Mr. Khamenei, the supreme leader, who has the final word on all state matters, has backed Mr. Ahmadinejad in recent months as the criticisms have become fiercer amid inflation of 26 percent. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ali Kordan, left, Iran's interior minister, is under fire for his academic credentials. Esfandiar Rahim Mashai, right, has drawn the ire of lawmakers for saying that Iran was a friend of Israelis. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ABEDIN TAHERKENAREH/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (89%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); APPROVALS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); WEB SITES (60%); INVESTIGATIONS (50%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (79%); ALI KHAMENEI (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); ISRAEL (95%); IRAN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2008



342 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Russia Takes Gori

 BODY:
President Dmitri Medvedev promised European negotiators early Wednesday morning that Russia would halt its attacks on Georgia and begin withdrawing its troops. A few hours later, Russian tanks rolled into the strategic crossroads town of Gori -- just 40 miles from Georgia's capital, Tbilisi.
 We're not sure if that means Mr. Medvedev isn't in charge or that he was lying to buy more time to push for the overthrow of Georgia's democratically elected government. Either explanation is chilling. 
 Europe and the United States must make clear to Mr. Medvedev -- and the real power player, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin -- that more aggression and lies will not be tolerated. They must make clear that Russia will pay a price, in diplomatic standing and economic relations, if it does not immediately withdraw its troops, agree to international mediation and permit the deployment of truly neutral international peacekeepers to Georgia's breakaway regions, South Ossetia and Abkhazia. 
 Mr. Bush has finally decided to send Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to Tbilisi. In addition to conveying support for Georgia's democracy, she must leave no doubt that there can be no military solution to the dispute with Russia -- and that American military planes and ships now heading for Georgia are to deliver humanitarian supplies. 
 The United States and Europe ignored this brewing crisis for too long. President Bush wanted to play all sides -- flattering Georgia's president, Mikheil Saakashvili, as Mr. Saakashvili baited Moscow and looking the other way as Mr. Putin bullied his neighbors. (American officials insist that they warned the Georgian leader not to fall into Moscow's trap by sending troops into South Ossetia -- but they clearly weren't persuasive enough.)
 Even after Russian bombers began pounding Georgia last week, President Bush seemed to hope that his old pal Mr. Putin was just blowing off steam. The Europeans, who are far too reliant on Russian energy supplies, were even more in denial. On Wednesday, some European leaders, including Germany's foreign minister, were still reluctant to blame Russia. 
 Nicolas Sarkozy, the French president, deserves credit for going to Moscow and Tbilisi to try to negotiate a cease-fire. Now he and Mr. Bush must insist that both Russia and Georgia abide by their commitments (the announcement of American aid deliveries had Mr. Saakashvili blustering again) and begin to negotiate the terms of a durable peace. 
 Georgia's sovereignty must be guaranteed. It will almost certainly have to give up its hopes of asserting control over the two breakaway regions -- but Moscow must not be allowed to annex them by force. European Union foreign ministers who agreed to send in 200 to 300 monitors must quickly deploy them. And Washington and Europe must press the United Nations Security Council to quickly authorize even more peacekeepers. 
 Ms. Rice should also go to Moscow and deliver the message that this war is seriously straining relations. 
 The Pentagon was right to cancel two planned exercises with the Russians. Democratic Congressional leaders were right to put a civilian nuclear deal, that could be worth billions to Moscow, on hold. 
 The United States and its allies must also warn that Moscow's application to join the World Trade Organization will go nowhere so long as it is brutalizing its neighbor. The European Union should tell Russia that it will not pursue a political and economic cooperation deal until Moscow is willing to behave like a responsible partner. 
 This invasion should never have begun. The United States and Europe must insist that it end now. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); SOUTH OSSETIAN CONFLICT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%)

PERSON: DMITRY MEDVEDEV (90%); MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (89%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%) GEORGIA, USA (92%) GEORGIA (95%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2008



343 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2283 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: August 14, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 AN AVENUE FOR PROTESTS
 In China Leads to Jail
 A Chinese woman who applied for a protest permit to air her complaints over what she claimed was the illegal demolition of her house is now serving a monthlong sentence for ''disturbing social order,'' according to her family. She is among a half-dozen people who have been detained after applying for permits to demonstrate during the Olympics in one of three Beijing parks specially designated as protest zones by the Chinese government. PAGE A6 
 UIGHURS UNDER SCRUTINY IN BEIJING
 It is no longer easy to find many Uighurs, an ethnic group of Turkic-speaking Muslims from China's far west, still living in Beijing. Most of the several thousand Uighurs who work in the city have left. And with Chinese authorities warning that a Uighur separatist group is trying to disrupt the Games, the few Uighurs who remain in Beijing are being watched very closely. PAGE A16 
 SPIKE IN KIDNAPPINGS IN MEXICO
 Kidnapping is on the rise in Mexico, and the biggest increase appears to be in the taking of children, with 15 Mexico City youngsters abducted last year and 22 so far in 2008. In all, there were 438 abductions reported across Mexico in 2007, 35 percent more than in 2006, federal officials report. The authorities acknowledge that most kidnapping cases are never reported and are handled privately, as the hostage-takers often demand. PAGE A8 
 GESTURE TO JEWS CRITICIZED IN IRAN
 In a statement signed by some 200 members of the 290-seat assembly, Iranian lawmakers called on President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to dismiss Esfandiar Rahim Mashai, a vice president for tourism, after he repeated on Sunday his comments that ''we are a friend of all people in the world, even Israelis and Americans.'' PAGE A13 
 ZIMBABWE TALKS YIELD NO DEAL
 After three days of intensive negotiations to resolve Zimbabwe's political crisis, President Robert Mugabe and the opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai were deadlocked on the most fundamental issue: which one of them would lead a new unity government. President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa, the official mediator in the Zimbabwe crisis, left Harare, Zimbabwe's capital, without the power-sharing deal he had hoped to broker. PAGE A16 
 GUNMEN KILL FOUR SOUTH OF KABUL
 Three Western women and an Afghan driver, all working for an American aid group, were killed just south of Kabul by men with automatic weapons, local officials and the aid group said. The Taliban took responsibility, asserting that the workers were not helping Afghanistan. PAGE A14 
 NATIONAL
 CANDIDATES GET GRIEF
 For Social Security Plans
 Senators John McCain and Barack Obama have each ventured into risky territory by proposing that something be done about Social Security. Mr. Obama's call to raise payroll taxes, though only for the rich, has drawn criticism, and so has Mr. McCain's ''everything has to be on the table'' approach. A difference is that the criticism of Mr. McCain is coming from his own party. PAGE A20
 A FLAG-WAVING ISSUE
 Gov. Deval Patrick of Massachusetts wants to phase out the state practice of using uniformed police officers to flag traffic at road construction sites where a crew is fixing potholes or laying pavement. Mr. Patrick wants to replace the officers with less-expensive civilians. Police officers, who may earn up to $40,000 a year beyond their salaries on such duties, warn of safety consequences. PAGE A18
 CHOOSING SIDES
 An analysis of the first filings under the new congressional ethics law shows the strength of party loyalty among lobbyists: more than three-fourths of the federal lobbyists making campaign contributions in excess of $25,000 this year have given money mainly to one party or the other, according to the reports they filed with Congress at the end of last month. PAGE A17
 SEEKING $8 BILLION FOR PRISONS
 The court-appointed receiver in charge of bringing California's troubled prison health system into compliance with Constitutional prohibitions against cruel and unusual treatment of prisoners said that he would ask a judge to seize $8 billion from the state treasury. The money would be used to pay for prison reforms and to hold Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger and the state controller, John Chiang, in contempt for their failure to pay for the plan. PAGE A18 
 REVIVING THE STREETCAR
 More than 40 cities are exploring streetcar plans to spur economic development, ease traffic congestion and draw young professionals and empty-nest baby boomers back from the suburbs. Among them is Cincinnati, which wants to revive a system that was dismantled in the 1950s. ''Human beings can be silly,'' said one local restaurateur, ''because we move away from things too quickly in this country.'' PAGE A17
 OBITUARIES
 ELEO POMARE, 70
 A modern-dance choreographer whose mordant wit filtered through his social-protest pieces about the human condition and the plight of blacks in particular, Mr. Pomare first stunned audiences in the 1960s with works of great originality and forcefulness. PAGE B7
 NEW YORK REPORT 
 OPPONENTS GATHER MUSCLE
 To Fight Rezoning in Queens
 Supporters and foes of the Bloomberg administration's plan to replace more than 200 small businesses in Willets Point, Queens, with a $3 billion development of stores, offices and apartments faced off in a confrontation that grew emotional and raucous at times. Rejection by the City Council of a rezoning measure pushed by the mayor would be unusual; what is different this time is the organizational muscle of the opponents. PAGE B1 
 THE ETHICS OF A FREE RIDE
 Subway tokens were simpler: each one allowed for one ride. But the disclosure this week of a computer problem that allowed hundreds of people to get free tickets and MetroCards from vending machines spotlighted the ethical quandaries of the proverbial free ride. PAGE B1 
 RECALLING THE BLACKOUT
 It was exactly five years ago that New York office workers got stuck in elevators and passengers stalled in trains, commuters hitched rides and guests at hotels without air-conditioning slept on the streets. And that was just part of the story of a blackout that left 50 million people in eight states and Canada in the dark. Could it happen again? The short answer is yes, though the odds have significantly diminished. PAGE B3 
 SPORTS
 CHINESE SEEM UNDERWHELMED
 By Phelps's Gold Collection
 Michael Phelps's quest to win eight gold medals may be generating incredible attention in the United States, but it is receiving curiously subdued attention in the country where it is taking place. There are empty seats at his races, state-run newspapers are providing muted coverage, and a number of people interviewed said that their favorite American athletes at the Games were not swimmers but N.B.A. stars. PAGE D1
 A CONFLICT THAT WASN'T
 The uniforms and trappings indicated that two Olympians from Georgia were playing two from Russia in beach volleyball, a potential minefield given the situation between the countries. But considering the fact that the ''Georgians'' were born in Brazil and live there still, the reality of the situation was a little different. PAGE D1
 NO HARM, NO FOUL?
 Before the Olympics, some members of the Spanish Olympic basketball team posed with their index fingers pulling back the skin by the corner of their eyes. But the Chinese don't seem terribly offended, raising the question, Harvey Araton writes in Sports of The Times: ''is the seemingly offensive gesture another noncall, a best-dismissed case of no harm, no foul?'' PAGE D1
 BUSINESS
 CHRYSLER JOINS THE MOVE
 To Smaller Vehicles
 Chrysler said it would spend $1.8 billion to convert a Detroit automotive plant from producing Jeep Grand Cherokees, a traditional sport utility vehicle, to making crossovers, vehicles that are mounted on car chassis rather than truck bodies. The move echoes changes previously announced by General Motors and Ford. PAGE C1
 DULL, BORING AND PROFITABLE
 Hudson City Savings Bank avoided offering subprime mortgages, risky construction loans and faster-growing markets offering easy money. It continued to screen borrowers carefully, since it planned to hold their loans instead of selling them. And it steered clear of complex investments its executives could not value. And now Hudson City's $50 billion balance sheet is not soaked in red ink. PAGE C1
 RETAIL SALES CONTINUE DECLINE
 Retail sales declined 0.1 percent in July, led by a sharp drop in automobile sales, the Commerce Department said. Sales were also weak at restaurants, sporting goods shops and health care stores. It was the first overall decline in sales since February and added to the evidence that the spending power of American consumers has weakened considerably, despite the booster shot of billions of dollars from the government's tax stimulus program. PAGE C1
 AN UNDERGROUND BOOM
 Rising energy costs have been very good for the business of ground-source heat pumps, which use the relatively constant temperature just below the earth's surface to heat in winter and cool in summer. Advocates say the systems can save building owners up to 65 percent on energy costs while reducing carbon dioxide emissions. PAGE C5
 THE GLOOM SPREADS
 Asia and Europe added to the economic gloom, as the Bank of England said it expected inflation to hit 5 percent because of energy and food prices and the economy to stagnate, and government data for Japan showed that the country appeared to be flirting with a recession. Analysts are expecting more bad news for Europe when new figures on the overall economy are released on Thursday. PAGE C3
 SCANNING PHOTOS ON THE CHEAP
 Turning a household's worth of photographs into their digital equivalents is a goal that most people never attain. Who has the time to do it themselves, or the money for someone else to scan them? But now a company says it will scan 1,000 photos for $50. There is no catch, but in the tradition of the photography business, the company hopes to lure you to spend more. State of the Art, by David Pogue. PAGE C1
 Spain's Building Hangover C3
 Genentech Rejects Takeover Bid C3
 Arts
 NONPROFIT GROUP USES BIG MEDIA
 To Draw in Potential Youth Voters
 Declare Yourself is a nonprofit group founded in 2003 to motivate the 18- to 29-year-old voting bracket. Now it is striving to register two million new voters by Election Day. The group follows in the footsteps of Rock the Vote, which rose to prominence in the early 1990s by allying itself with MTV. Declare Yourself is using big media, rather than music, to drive its message home. Stars of popular shows like ''Gossip Girl'' or ''The Hills'' appear during the shows' commercial breaks to mention the registration effort. PAGE B1 
 A HALL FOR ICONS IN AN ICONIC CITY
 New York City, the birthplace of so many iconic moments in music and song lyrics, is to be host to a catalog of some of those moments and more. The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum will soon open an annex in SoHo. It will include exhibitions on Hall of Fame inductees, guitars played by the Ramones and Eric Clapton as well as traveling exhibits from the Hall of Fame's headquarters in Cleveland. At the opening ceremony Bruce Springsteen's first car, a '57 Chevy, was proudly on display. PAGE B3 
 Style
 IS SELF-PRESERVATION
 Really Skin-Deep?
 Smokers in search of elective plastic surgery have been turned away from their desired tummy-tucks, face-lifts and breast-lifts, by surgeons who say that nicotine constricts blood flow, making healing more difficult. Suddenly, people who ignored the surgeon general's warnings and the advice of their cardiologist finally have a compelling reason to quit: vanity. PAGE G3 
 MATERNAL INSTINCTS IN CYBERSPACE
 When a tradition like summer camp collides with the Internet, communication can get complicated. Services like campminder.com allow parents to e-mail children at camp. But keep it simple and keep it contained, parents. You can be kid-sick, but don't let them become homesick, writes Michelle Slatalla. PAGE G2 
 HOME
 RELYING ON GARAGE SALES FOR NEW YORK HOME DeCOR
 Garage sales are a summer pastime for many people, and something akin to an addiction for some. But for Linda Wary and John Meyers, a husband-and-wife team of interior designers based in Portland, Me., the sales are their bread and butter: all of their materials are from garage sales and flea markets in Maine. And their clients are in New York. PAGE F1 
 Editorial
 RUSSIA TAKES GORI
 President Dmitri Medvedev promised European negotiators that Russia would halt its brutal attacks on Georgia, then Russian tanks rolled into the strategic crossroads town of Gori. We're not sure if that means Mr. Medvedev isn't in charge or that he was lying to buy more time to push for the overthrow of Georgia's government. PAGE A22
 SMOOTH AND DANGEROUS?
 The Food and Drug Administration needs to have regulatory control over tobacco. And Americans need to know, once and for all, whether menthol makes cigarettes even deadlier. PAGE A22
 Op-Ed
 GAIL COLLINS
 Few of us can internalize the athletes' trauma of the agony of defeat. But having the whole world know that you've been deemed insufficiently attractive -- now there's Everywoman's nightmare. PAGE A23
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 This fall, China's leaders could boast an even more monumental achievement than the Olympics: They could bring the Dalai Lama back to China and engineer a deal to resolve Tibet's future. PAGE A23 
 THE WRONG FORCE
 Bartle Breese Bull, the foreign editor of Prospect magazine, argues that sending a surge of American troops to Afghanistan would risk lives while gaining little tactical advantage. PAGE A23

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LICENSES & PERMITS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (86%); SOCIAL SECURITY (85%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); JEWS & JUDAISM (74%); HOSTAGE TAKING (72%); ETHNIC GROUPS (69%); TALIBAN (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); RELIGION (69%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); SHOOTINGS (60%); ETHNICITY (55%)

PERSON: THABO MBEKI (55%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%); MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (50%); JOHN MCCAIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); HARARE, ZIMBABWE (91%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (94%); ZIMBABWE (94%); MEXICO (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2008



344 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1434 words

HEADLINE: Social Security Too Hot to Touch? Not in 2008

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
Ignoring the warnings that Social Security can derail political careers, Senator John McCain has infuriated his party's right wing by saying that ''everything has to be on the table'' in discussions about keeping Social Security solvent. 
 Mr. McCain, the presumed Republican presidential nominee, does indeed seem to have put everything on the table. In the space of one week, he opened the door to an increase in Social Security taxes, denied he would raise payroll taxes and then, through an ally, called a tax increase a ''dumb idea.'' He has also sowed confusion about whether he favors privatizing Social Security, or continuing with the current system.
 Senator Barack Obama, Mr. McCain's likely Democratic rival, has been attacked for offering his own, far more specific plan that would raise payroll taxes, though only for the rich. But that criticism has not come from his party and has not been as intense as the denunciations of Mr. McCain.
 Party elders and analysts who have seen many a politician fall victim to the jinx of Social Security, which was signed into law 73 years ago Thursday, say they are not surprised. 
 ''All you have to do is open your mouth and you're dead meat,'' said Bill Frenzel, a former Republican congressman from Minnesota who is now a Social Security analyst at the Brookings Institution. ''If you say you might have to raise payroll taxes, the no-tax crowd jumps all over you. Say you might have to decrease benefits, and the AARP and the Democrats will kill you.'' 
 Both candidates agree that adjustments to the Social Security formula are necessary because the trust fund, though in surplus now, will begin showing a deficit around 2018, according to actuarial forecasts. Some project that the fund will be exhausted shortly after 2040; others, using less pessimistic calculations of economic and population growth, say that would occur decades later. 
 Still other economists say such warnings are fear-mongering, and argue that economic growth and immigration, combined with some tinkering, could keep the system solvent indefinitely. 
 The two presumptive nominees do not appear to be among them. But unlike Mr. Obama, whose proposal unambiguously calls for higher taxes on wealthy Americans but also hands his adversary fodder for the fall campaign, Mr. McCain, in refusing to be pinned down, has left many experts wondering what approach he would favor. Somewhat unexpectedly, Social Security surged into the presidential campaigns on July 27, when, on ABC's ''This Week,'' Mr. McCain said ''there is nothing I would take off the table'' in efforts to keep Social Security viable. When asked if that included a tax increase, he twice repeated his ''nothing's off the table'' phrase. 
 That statement was apparently meant to give Mr. McCain maximum flexibility in any negotiations with Congress over the future of Social Security that are sure to be part of the next administration's agenda, regardless of who wins the election. ''John McCain believes we're not going to be able to start a negotiation with ultimatums,'' said Taylor Griffin, a spokesman for Mr. McCain. ''What he's saying is, Let's keep this out of a polarized political debate.''
 But it immediately brought a sharp rejoinder from the Club for Growth, an antitax group, which forced Mr. McCain into verbal acrobatics in which he tried to maintain his personal opposition to a tax increase. 
 He also confounded experts by endorsing the idea of individual private accounts, but without clarifying whether he sees them as a tool to augment the existing system or to replace it with some form of privatization similar to what President Bush proposed in 2005.
 The distinction is vital. In their mildest form, so-called ''add-on'' accounts would permit, but not oblige, employees to make contributions above the current payroll tax rate. But a ''carve out'' approach would reroute some part of current contributions to the system and, in some versions, would be mandatory. 
 Democrats and their allies oppose the carve-out concept, which they argue could eventually open the door to diverting most of the money going into Social Security and would result in decreased benefits. But they have been less hostile to add-on plans, some forms of which they see as benign. 
 Though both campaigns are reluctant to name other steps, beyond a payroll tax increase, that might be required to keep Social Security solvent, several proposals are already on the table, including one written jointly by current and former advisers to both candidates.
 Raising the retirement age further, reducing benefits across the board, pegging increases in benefits to inflation rather than wage hikes, and allowing retirement at an earlier age in return for cuts in benefits were all floated in a December 2005 study, ''Nonpartisan Social Security Reform Plan.'' Its authors included Jeffrey Liebman, now Mr. Obama's chief Social Security adviser, and Maya MacGuineas, who advised Mr. McCain on the subject in 2000.
 Ms. MacGuineas is now an analyst at the New America Foundation, a bipartisan Washington research group. Mr. Griffin of the McCain campaign said the views in the study were ''her own'' and that ''she is not currently an adviser to the campaign.'' The Obama campaign, likewise, said the views in the study were Mr. Liebman's, and not the candidate's. 
 Mr. Obama's proposal would increase the payroll tax in a way that, to hear his critics tell it, could transform Social Security from a purely social insurance program into one that also helps redistribute income from the rich to the poor. But while his plan has taken heat from the McCain camp, it has raised fewer hackles within Democratic circles. 
 To begin to attack the problem now, Mr. Obama would subject all wages above $250,000 a year to the payroll tax. That concept has been nicknamed the ''doughnut hole'' because it would exempt wages between $102,000 a year, the current ceiling for contributions, and $250,000.
 ''What Barack Obama is doing is different from what people running for president traditionally have done,'' Jason Furman, Mr. Obama's chief economic adviser, said in an interview. ''He's putting an option on the table, not just saying he wants to work with Congress, but also saying what he wants to work on.''
 While more specific than Mr. McCain's plan, the Obama proposal raises questions. The tax rate Mr. Obama would apply to wages over $250,000 has not been established, but it would be lower than the combined 12.4 percent that employees and employers now jointly pay. ''We've studied a range of plans with combined employer and employee rates between 2 and 4 percent,'' Mr. Furman said.
 By itself, the Obama proposal will not guarantee the solvency of Social Security. Andrew Biggs, a Social Security expert at the conservative American Enterprise Institute, calculates that the plan would reduce the gap by 15 percent to 43 percent, depending on the level of the surtax, which he complains ''is being fuzzed up to prevent people like me from running the numbers.''
 It is also not clear whether those paying the additional payroll tax would receive more benefits, as the system now mandates. Mr. Furman said ''it is factually inaccurate to say that a decision has been made to de-link taxes from benefits,'' because ''that is something you'd want to work out with Congress.'' 
 But Pat Toomey, a former Republican congressman who is president of the Club for Growth, was skeptical, saying that there is no point to having the doughnut hole ''unless you're going to redistribute wealth.''
 Mr. McCain and his surrogates have also sharply criticized the Obama proposal, portraying it as a new soak-the-rich tax. Lawrence B. Lindsey, who as Mr. Bush's chief economic adviser was one of the architects of the 2001 tax cuts, has even argued that Mr. Obama's plan would turn Social Security into ''just another welfare program.''
 But when Mr. McCain was asked in February 2005 in an interview on NBC's ''Meet the Press'' if he could support the doughnut hole concept, he offered a cautious endorsement.
 ''As part of a compromise, I could,'' he said, so long as it included ''other sacrifices, because we all know that it doesn't add up until we make some very serious and fundamental changes.'' 
 And Mr. McCain's former adviser offers guarded praise. ''The doughnut hole is not a fix in itself,'' Ms. MacGuineas said, ''but it can be one piece, depending on what the other pieces are. I happen personally to think you have to have a balanced solution, with some revenue increases and some spending cuts.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John McCain, last year in Port Royal, S.C., discussed an issue that has meant trouble for many presidential candidates.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALICE KEENEY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); AGING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2008



345 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1781 words

HEADLINE: BUSH, SENDING AID, DEMANDS MOSCOW WITHDRAW FORCES

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS; Steven Lee Myers reported from Washington, Sabrina Tavernise from Gori, Georgia, and Ellen Barry from Moscow. Reporting was contributed by Thom Shanker and Helene Cooper from Washington; Dan Schneider from the United Nations; and Andrew Kramer and C. J. Chivers from Tbilisi, Georgia.

 BODY:
This article was reported by Steven Lee Myers, Sabrina Tavernise and Ellen Barry and written by Mr. Myers.
 WASHINGTON -- President Bush sent American troops to Georgia on Wednesday to oversee a ''vigorous and ongoing'' humanitarian mission, in a direct challenge to Russia's display of military dominance over the region. His action came after Russian soldiers moved into two strategic Georgian cities in what he and Georgian officials called a violation of the cease-fire Russia agreed to earlier in the day.
 Mr. Bush demanded that Russia abide by the cease-fire and withdraw its forces or risk its place in ''the diplomatic, political, economic and security structures of the 21st century.'' It was his strongest warning yet of potential retaliation against Russia over the conflict.
 The decision to send the American military, even on a humanitarian mission, deepened the United States' commitment to Georgia and America's allies in the former Soviet sphere, just as Russia has been determined to reassert its control in the area. 
 On a day the White House evoked emotional memories of the cold war, a senior Pentagon official said the relief effort was intended ''to show to Russia that we can come to the aid of a European ally, and that we can do it at will, whenever and wherever we want.'' At a minimum, American forces in Georgia will test Russia's pledge to allow relief supplies into the country; they could also deter further Russian attacks, though at the risk of a potential military confrontation.
 ''We expect Russia to ensure that all lines of communication and transport, including seaports, airports, roads and airspace, remain open for the delivery of humanitarian assistance and for civilian transit,'' Mr. Bush said. ''We expect Russia to meet its commitment to cease all military activities in Georgia, and we expect all Russian forces that entered Georgia in recent days to withdraw from that country.''
 In Georgia, President Mikheil Saakashvili, who has sharply criticized what he called a failure of the West to support his country, declared the relief operation a ''turning point'' in the conflict, which began on Thursday when Georgian forces tried to establish control in the breakaway region of South Ossetia, only to be routed by the Russians.
 ''We were unhappy with the initial actions of the American officials, because they were perceived by the Russians as green lines, basically, but this one was very strong,'' he said in a telephone interview after Mr. Bush's statement in Washington.
 Mr. Saakashvili interpreted the aid operation as a decision to defend Georgia's ports and airports, though Bush administration and Pentagon officials quickly made it clear that would not be the case. A senior administration official said, ''We won't be protecting the airport or seaport, but we'll certainly protect our assets if we need to.''
 Mr. Bush spoke in the Rose Garden of the White House, flanked by his secretaries of state and defense, Condoleezza Rice and Robert M. Gates. He said that Ms. Rice would fly to France to support its mediation efforts and then to Georgia ''to continue our efforts to rally the free world in the defense of a free Georgia.'' 
 State Department officials said there were no plans for Ms. Rice to go to Moscow.
 Mr. Bush's remarks, like the military operation he ordered, reflected a growing apprehension within the White House over Russia's offensive, as well as mounting frustration that Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, whom Mr. Bush often calls a friend, was unmoved by appeals for moderation. Underscoring the urgency, Mr. Bush, who had remained at the Olympics in Beijing while the conflict erupted, postponed a planned trip to his ranch in Crawford, Tex., which was to have begun on Thursday.
 The first relief aircraft, a C-17 transporter carrying medical supplies and materials for shelter for thousands displaced by the fighting, arrived in Tbilisi, Georgia's capital, on Wednesday; a second was due Thursday. 
 Ms. Rice called her Russian counterpart, Sergey V. Lavrov, and informed him about the relief operation. The presence of American troops to help the aid mission will also allow the United States to monitor whether Russia was honoring the cease-fire, brokered by President Nicolas Sarkozy of France.
 At a news conference at the State Department, Ms. Rice evoked some of the darkest memories of the cold war, though she stopped well short of promises of direct military support to Georgia.
 ''This is not 1968, and the invasion of Czechoslovakia, where Russia can invade its neighbor, occupy a capital, overthrow a government and get away with it,'' she said. ''Things have changed.''
 She and Mr. Bush gave credence to Georgia's accusations that Russian forces continued to operate in violation of the cease-fire. Russia insisted that all of its operations were permitted under the agreement.
 The cease-fire included a provision that required Russian forces to withdraw to their ''normal bases of encampment'' but also allowed them to ''implement additional security measures.''
 A senior American official said the vague language ''would allow the Russians to do almost anything.''
 Only hours after the agreement was reached, a Russian tank battalion occupied parts of Gori, a strategic city in central Georgia. Hundreds of additional Russian soldiers also poured over the border from Russia into South Ossetia, accompanied by fuel trucks and attack helicopters.
 Gori is only 40 miles from the capital, and the presence of Russian forces there frayed nerves as rumors circulated of an attack on Tbilisi itself. A Russian battalion commander, at a checkpoint on the highway from Gori to the capital, spoke menacingly of Mr. Saakashvili.
 ''If he doesn't understand the situation, we'll have to go further,'' the commander said on the condition of anonymity. ''He doesn't seem to understand that the Russian Army is much stronger than the Georgian Army. His tanks remain in their places. His air force is dead. His navy is also. His army is demoralized.''
 Mr. Bush also cited reports that Russians had taken up positions in Poti, a port city on the Black Sea, and were blowing up Georgian ships. Russian officials denied that troops had occupied any cities, but some of the statements appeared to rest on technicalities of what constituted occupation.
 In Russia, Mr. Lavrov, the foreign minister, warned the Bush administration that it risked a breach with Russia by throwing its support so strongly behind Georgia and its president.
 ''We understand that this current Georgian leadership is a special project of the United States,'' he said, ''but one day the United States will have to choose between defending its prestige over a virtual project or real partnership'' with Russia.
 He and other officials said that Russian troops in Georgia continued to conduct operations on Wednesday, but only in support of peacekeepers, a role explicitly permitted in the cease-fire signed by Russia's president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, and Mr. Saakashvili.
 Mr. Lavrov said that when Georgian forces abandoned their military headquarters near Gori, they left ''a major arsenal of armaments and military equipment'' and that the Russian troops were now guarding it.
 ''To leave it in such a condition would be unforgivable,'' he said. ''The city residents have problems with food,'' he added. ''The Russian servicemen will provide them with necessary aid.''
 One of the Russian commanders, Gen. Vyacheslav Nikolayevich of the Pskov Airborne Division, said Russian soldiers would remain on the outskirts of Gori but not enter the city. ''People can get back to their lives,'' he said.
 Asked whether Mr. Bush's relief mission made him nervous, he scoffed. ''What can the Americans do to us?'' he said. ''A big country like Russia doesn't fear America.''
 Mr. Bush's remarks were the toughest yet in the conflict. ''Russia's ongoing actions raise serious questions about its intentions in Georgia and the region,'' he said. ''In recent years, Russia has sought to integrate into the diplomatic, political, economic, and security structures of the 21st century. The United States has supported those efforts. Now Russia is putting its aspirations at risk by taking actions in Georgia that are inconsistent with the principles of those institutions.''
 Administration officials said that the United States would not take part in planned military exercises with Russia this weekend and that they were considering blocking Russia's accession into the World Trade Organization and its participation in the Group of 8 industrialized nations.
 ''I don't think that there's any doubt that Russia has already in its actions called into question some of its desire to be integrated into these institutions,'' Ms. Rice said Wednesday.
 In South Ossetia, investigators began to look into accusations of atrocities. Human Rights Watch reported that researchers witnessed ''terrifying scenes of destruction'' in four ethnic Georgian villages, and said the villages had been looted and burned by South Ossetian militias. 
 Anna Neistat, one of the researchers, said by telephone from Tskhinvali, the capital of South Ossetia, that they had found no evidence to substantiate Russian assertions of widespread brutality by Georgian troops. Human Rights Watch has been able to confirm fewer than 100 deaths.
 Russian leaders have said they would like to bring Mr. Saakashvili to face war crimes charges in The Hague. Meanwhile, Georgia has filed a lawsuit against Russia at the International Court of Justice in The Hague for its actions on and around Georgia from 1991 to 2008, the court said in a statement.
 At the United Nations, Security Council members continued informal but inconclusive consultations on the final draft of a resolution intended to codify the cease-fire. Foreign ministers from 27 European Union countries convened an emergency meeting in Brussels. 
 It was a day on which Georgians were teased with signs that the Russians were -- or were not -- coming. There were a flurry of reports that Russian tanks were on the road from Gori to Tbilisi, but no tanks ever arrived there. 
 In Senaki, Russian soldiers had occupied Lia Baramia's cafe. She had fled when she heard about the fighting. When she returned, Russian soldiers had dug trenches in the cafe's driveway and were using an outdoor tap to drink and bathe. They were friendly, she said, but she was happy when they left. Cows were munching on the leaves and grass the soldiers had used to camouflage their vehicles, and Ms. Baramia decided to reopen.
 Within 10 minutes, a convoy of Russian personnel carriers sped back into town.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Bush warned Russia of possible retaliation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICHOLAS KAMM/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A1)
 Women from a Georgian village stood by the road to Tbilisi, Georgia's capital, after fleeing their homes on Wednesday afternoon when armed Ossetians arrived. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTYNA MIELNIKIEWICZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A12) MAP: Russian troops entered Gori and Poti, and aid arrived in Tbilisi. (pg.A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AIRPORTS (88%); COLD WAR (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); HARBORS & PORTS (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (72%)

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (79%) GEORGIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2008



346 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Two Large Solar Power Plants Are Planned in California

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
Companies will build two solar power plants in California that together will put out more than 12 times as much electricity as the largest such plant today, the latest indication that solar energy is starting to achieve significant scale.
 The plants will cover 12.5 square miles of central California with solar panels, and in the middle of a sunny day will generate about 800 megawatts of power, roughly equal to the size of a large coal-burning power plant or a small nuclear plant. A megawatt is enough power to run a large Wal-Mart store. 
 The power will be sold to Pacific Gas & Electric, which is under a state mandate to get 20 percent of its electricity from renewable sources by 2010. The utility said that it expected the new plants, which will use photovoltaic technology to turn sunlight directly into electricity, to be competitive with other renewable energy sources, including wind turbines and solar thermal plants, which use the sun's heat to boil water. 
 ''These market-leading projects we have in California are something that can be extrapolated around the world,'' Jennifer Zerwer, a spokeswoman for the utility, said. ''It's a milestone.''
 Though the California installations will generate 800 megawatts at times when the sun is shining brightly, they will operate for fewer hours of the year than a coal or nuclear plant would and so will produce a third or less as much total electricity.
 OptiSolar, a company that has just begun making a type of solar panel with a thin film of active material, will install 550 megawatts in San Luis Obispo County. The SunPower Corporation, which uses silicon-crystal technology, will build about 250 megawatts at a different location in the same county. 
 The scale is a leap forward. 
 ''If you're going to make a difference, you've got to do it big,'' said Randy Goldstein, the chief executive of OptiSolar. The scale of the two plants will ''bring a new paradigm to bear'' for the industry, he said. 
 At 800 megawatts total, the new plants will greatly exceed the scale of previous solar installations. The largest photovoltaic installation in the United States, 14 megawatts, is at Nellis Air Force Base in Nevada, using SunPower panels. 
 Spain has a 23-megawatt plant, and Germany is building one of 40 megawatts. A recently built plant that uses mirrors to concentrate sunlight, called Nevada Solar One, can produce 64 megawatts of power.
 Solar power remains expensive compared with making electricity from coal or natural gas, but it is bounding ahead, driven by quotas set by the states. 
 California's 20 percent renewable standard is one of the toughest, and companies there are afraid they will miss a deadline in 2010. Pacific Gas & Electric expects that when the new plants are completed, its total will rise to 24 percent, but not until 2013. 
 Both plants require numerous permits, and plans could still go awry. The companies involved said they expected that building gargantuan plants would achieve economies of scale in the cost of design, installation and connection to the electric grid.
 The companies said they were forbidden by contract terms to talk about price, and a spokeswoman for Pacific Gas & Electric said her company was trying to obtain the best possible deal for ratepayers by not telling other suppliers of renewable energy what it was willing to pay. 
 But all three companies said the costs would be much lower than photovoltaic installations of the past.
 SunPower's panels are mounted at a 20-degree angle, facing south, and pivot from west to east over the course of the day to face the sun. OptiSolar's are installed at a fixed angle. They are larger and less efficient, but also much less costly, so the cost per watt of energy is similar, company executives said.
 Both are good at producing power at a time of day when the prices tend to be high, in the afternoon.
 Neither approaches the economy of fossil-fuel burning plants, said Ms. Zerwer, the spokeswoman for Pacific Gas & Electric. But they will be competitive with wind power and with power from solar thermal plants, which are equipped with mirrors that use the sun's heat to boil water into steam. And prices will fall, she predicted.
 Her company, she said, was ''going to contribute to the virtuous cycle of technology innovation and lower unit manufacturing cost, by purchasing on such a scale.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 16, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about the planned construction of two large solar power installations in California described incorrectly the operation of the solar panels in one, to be built by SunPower. Its panels pivot from east to west to follow the sun over the course of a day -- not west to east.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Solar plants like this one in Bavaria, Germany, have taken photovoltaic technology from home rooftops to utility-size projects.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUNPOWER)
 The largest photovoltaic installation in the United States, at Nellis Air Force Base in Nevada, uses SunPower panels.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE MARCUS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (97%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (78%); WIND ENERGY (58%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%); ARMED FORCES (50%); AIR FORCES (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: PG&E CORP (91%); SUNPOWER CORP (85%)

TICKER: PCG (SWX) (91%); PCG (NYSE) (91%); SPWR (NASDAQ) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (91%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (91%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (94%); BAVARIA, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (85%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008



347 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 460 words

 BODY:
ENTICING SLOGANS The explosive growth in home equity loans has been a boon for banks, but many experts say the ad campaigns encouraged Americans to go deeper into debt. 
 INFLATION RISES Prices of consumer products were 5.6 percent higher last month than they were in July 2007, the sharpest annual increase since the recession of the early 1990s. [C1.] 
 BARGAIN HUNTERS Wal-Mart Stores announced record earnings for the three months ending in July, helped by a weakened economy that has parents heading to bargain retailers in search of deep discounts on back-to-school gear for their children. [C1.]
 BANKRUPTCY WOES The federal corporation that takes over troubled pension funds is pushing Delphi to transfer $1.5 billion of pension obligations to General Motors. [C1.]
 RE-EXAMINING RUSSIA A number of Wall Street banks are nervous that Russia's high-risk, high-reward environment is becoming too much about the risk. [C1.]
 SECURITIES DEAL JPMorgan Chase and Morgan Stanley will buy back a combined $7 billion of auction-rate securities as part of settlements reached with state and federal regulators. [C5.]
 GETTING NOTICED Marketers are finding new places to put ads, leading to growth in spending on out-of-home media, once commonly known as outdoor media. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C6.]
 GOOGLE PHONE The first device powered by Google's Android software, the Web giant's open-source mobile platform, will be a smartphone from T-Mobile. [C1.]
 TRANSATLANTIC DEAL American Airlines and British Airways said they would seek antitrust approval to form an alliance to link their global flight networks. [C2.]
 SKI RESORT LAWSUIT The owner of the elite Yellowstone Club in Montana reached a $39.5 million settlement with Greg LeMond, an investor and three-time winner of the Tour de France. [C4.]
 RENEWABLE ENERGY Two California companies will build two scale solar power plants and sell the electricity to Pacific Gas and Electric.[C4.]
 DOWNTURN IN EUROPE The economy of the 15-nation euro area contracted 0.2 percent in the second quarter. [C4.]
 CRUISE STAYS A day after the departure of Paula Wagner, the chief executive of United Artists, the studio's parent company said Tom Cruise was not leaving. [C6.]
 AIRLINE SAFETY The Federal Aviation Administration is seeking $7.1 million from American Airlines for flying planes after safety problems were reported and for other violations. [C7.]
 WANTED MAN Heinrich Kieber, a former data-entry clerk at the LGT Group, has spawned a global private-banking scandal that is peeling back layers of Swiss-style secrecy. [C8.]
 PLUG-IN CAR General Motors said it was almost finished with the design of the all-electric Chevrolet Volt and that it expected to have 50 prototypes ready by the end of 2008. [C9.]

GRAPHIC: CHART 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); AIRLINES (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); LITIGATION (87%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EURO ZONE (77%); AUCTIONS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (74%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (73%); APPROVALS (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (71%); RESORTS (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (71%); SMARTPHONES (70%); SOLAR ENERGY (70%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (70%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (70%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (68%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (67%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (67%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (66%); CIVIL AVIATION (65%); POWER PLANTS (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (65%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (64%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (64%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (62%); SCANDALS (60%); PRIVATE BANKING (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); WAL-MART STORES INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (54%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (54%); PG&E CORP (53%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); WMT (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (56%); PCG (SWX) (53%); PCG (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (54%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (54%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (53%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (53%)

PERSON: TOM CRUISE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008



348 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: School Stuff, for Pennies

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM; Karen Ann Cullotta contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Parents shopping for back-to-school gear could be forgiven for walking into a store nowadays and thinking they have gone through a time warp. 
 With 1930s prices for pens, glue, notebooks and even T-shirts, the season seems more ''Back to the Future'' than back to school. A penny these days buys eight No. 2 pencils at Staples or a wooden ruler at OfficeMax. Fifty cents buys a watercolor set at Target. A box of 24 Crayola crayons is the cost of a gumball -- 25 cents. Or, as Sharon Hartley, vice president for United States marketing and sales for Crayola, put it: ''Sixteen boxes of a 24-pack equals a gallon of gas.''
 Such pocket-change bargains, known as loss leaders, are not a novel strategy for retailers, of course. But in the first back-to-school season since the economy weakened considerably, the discounts are earlier, deeper and more creative than in previous years. Staples, for instance, has offered one-cent deals before, though this is the first year the retailer is giving away products, like Elmer's glue. 
 Thrift is the theme this back-to-school year: people are spending less, consolidating shopping trips, forgoing discretionary items and going without new wardrobes and backpacks. And stores are trying to play to the public mood.
 ''I've seen a much higher prevalence of those types of big attention-grabber promotions this season,'' said Stacy Janiak, an analyst with Deloitte. ''The one-cent deals, the bundling of products or three-for-two deals. I've seen a lot of that, much more than in the past.'' 
 Loss leaders are called that because by selling items at a loss or even giving them away, stores can lure in shoppers who will buy other, more profitable items. Drawn by the prospect of free glue, Laura Janowski, 23, stocked up on school supplies for her siblings, 12 and 14, at a Staples store in Rolling Meadows, Ill., this week. ''Now, I just need to find the 9-cent filler paper and 33-cent index cards,'' she said. 
 Even as consumers visit stores like Staples, lured in by the penny deals, they are doing much of their shopping at discount and off-price retailers. There they can buy everything from sneakers to paperclips, and prices are low throughout the store, not just on a few select items. 
 ''With the high price of gas and food this summer, it is absolutely necessary for me to try to save money on back-to-school shopping,'' said Jennifer Lee, a mother of three, ages 9, 12 and 15, as she loaded her minivan with bags of folders and binders from a Wal-Mart in Rolling Meadows, Ill. ''That means reusing last year's scissors and markers, and even the old spiral notebooks that have only a few pages used.'' 
 Ms. Janiak of Deloitte said 71 percent of households would cut their spending on back-to-school items this year, with 48 percent planning to reduce spending by more than $100. Deborah Weinswig, an analyst with Citigroup, said 75 percent of consumers planned to spend less than $400 on back-to-school shopping, up from 45 percent last year.
 ''Everyone is just much more price focused,'' Ms. Weinswig said. 
 It is perhaps no surprise, then, that Wal-Mart on Thursday announced record earnings for the three months ending in July and raised its full-year earnings forecast to $3.43 to $3.50 a share, up from $3.30 to $3.43. 
 The bargain retailer's profit rose to $3.4 billion, or 87 cents a share, up from $2.9 billion, or 72 cents a share, a year earlier. Sales at American stores open at least a year, known as same-store sales and a measure of retail health, rose to 4.5 percent (not including fuel) for the quarter, up from 1.9 percent last year.
 ''Their sweet spot within the customer framework are items below $10 and items that customers are familiar with,'' said Bill Dreher, an analyst with Deutsche Bank Securities. ''It's working.'' 
 Wal-Mart has been offering back-to-school deals like a week's worth of children's outfits (five tops and five bottoms) for $60, though it too is selling school supplies for pennies. 
 ''You have a series of wow items,'' John Simley, a spokesman for Wal-Mart, said this week. ''People are coming in expecting to buy a notebook. But 5 cents for a notebook? You can get 20 for a buck.'' 
 Andrew Schneider, director of global brand management for Staples, said compelling penny offers bring customers into stores. ''And they then will discover the wide range of products we have,'' he said.
 Analysts agree that in an economic downturn penny deals help retailers retain, if not gain, customers. More important, the eye-popping deals can keep a retailer at the top of consumers' minds. 
 ''Can you afford to sell something for a penny?,'' said Marshal Cohen, NPD Group's chief industry analyst. ''The answer is, you can't afford not to.''
 In addition to price, a big appeal of discounters is that they offer one-stop shopping, saving consumers fuel. 
 ''I think everybody thinks twice about heading out,'' said Debbie Pinciotto as she led a gaggle of teenage girls on a scavenger hunt through Westfield Sunrise mall in Massapequa, N.Y. She plans to do the bulk of her back-to-school clothing shopping in a few weeks, after her older daughter receives her birthday presents. ''When she gets the gift cards, we'll go,'' Ms. Pinciotto said.
 Many consumers, not content with bargain school supplies, are planning to use discount cards being mailed out by the likes of Kohl's and J. C. Penney, which this week announced a rewards a program that allows customers to earn points from purchases and receive members-only benefits. 
 Analysts said apparel sales would suffer this season as parents send children back to school in last year's clothes. Those that do buy new gear will use rewards cards and coupons in September, even October, when the weather cools and their children have determined what fashions are in vogue. 
 Two department stores on Thursday released earnings reports for the three months ending Aug. 2, illustrating the disparity between discount retailers and department stores. 
 Nordstrom, the luxury chain, reported a 21 percent decline in profit to $143 million, or 65 cents a share, down from $180 million, or 71 cents a share, a year earlier. Same-store sales decreased 6 percent for the quarter. The company's lower-priced Nordstrom Rack stores fared well with same-store sales increasing 6.3 percent for the quarter. Its full-price stores struggled, however, with same-stores sales decreasing 9 percent in the quarter. 
 Kohl's profit decreased 12 percent to $236 million, or 77 cents a share, down from $269 million, or 83 cents a share, a year earlier. Same store sales for the quarter decreased 4.6 percent.
 In a conference call with investors, Wes McDonald, Kohl's chief financial officer, said that of all the marketing areas the company was concentrating on, the most important was ''emphasizing value in all our advertising.'' 
 While it is unlikely back-to-school clothes will be sold for pocket change, consumers should expect to see more sales and rewards programs as summer turns to fall. 
 ''The consumer knows they're in the driver's seat,'' said Mr. Cohen of NPD Group. ''The retailer's going to blink first.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lizbeth Hayek, her daughter Sarah, 11, and son Chris, 16, were lured to a Staples in Paramus, N.J., by low prices. Many retailers attract customers with very low prices on school items, and hope those buyers will also buy more expensive goods.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Lizbeth Hayek bought dozens of back-to-school items Wednesday at Staples, but spent only $190.97.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (89%); SALES PROMOTIONS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

COMPANY: CRAYOLA LLC (57%); DELOITTE LLP (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3952 LEAD PENCILS & ART GOODS (57%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008



349 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Less Than Golden Years

 BODY:
Even before the housing bubble, the country was facing a retirement crisis, with most Americans saving too little, if anything, for their post-working years. The housing bubble -- and subsequent bust -- have made that bad situation worse. 
 As house prices surged through the middle of this decade, the already low savings rate turned negative. Many Americans were living beyond their means, in part, because swelling home values created an illusion of wealth. Now, with house prices falling, nearly 10 million people have lost all of their home equity. Millions more have given up all of the gains of the boom years -- a wipeout totaling $3.5 trillion, so far. 
 Millions of Americans will not be able to recover their equity or build their savings in time to have a secure retirement. The sooner lawmakers and employers respond to this crisis -- with legislation and education -- the better the chances for limiting the damage. 
 The first goal should be to keep the bleak savings picture from getting much worse, and for that education is crucial. Studies show that employees -- unable to borrow against their homes -- are increasingly taking loans or withdrawals from their 401(k)'s, often to cover medical bills or mortgage payments. They may have no choice, but tapping a retirement plan early can be costly.
 When employees borrow from their 401(k)'s, they are borrowing from themselves. They pay themselves back through payroll deductions, at an interest rate that is set by the plan. Even with full repayment, however, 401(k) borrowers still tend to end up with less because the interest they pay is usually less than what they would have earned if the money had remained invested. Employees that can't pay are charged tax and, in most cases, a 10 percent penalty on the unpaid balance. 
 Early withdrawals do even more damage. Employees owe tax and, usually, the 10 percent penalty, and are barred from contributing to the plan for six months. Years of savings and compounded growth are lost. 
 In tough times, employees must have access to their 401(k). But employers should ensure that workers understand the true cost of tapping those accounts. 
 Congress, for its part, needs to guard against undue leakage from retirement accounts. A case in point is the 401(k) debit card, a new form of plastic that lets plan participants borrow from their 401(k) with every swipe. Congress should move quickly to ban the cards. Daily access to one's 401(k) violates the whole point of government-encouraged retirement savings. 
 Lawmakers should also institute automatic rollovers, in which 401(k)'s are automatically transferred to a new retirement account when workers change employers. Currently, employees can take the money when they leave, and many do, despite having to pay taxes and a penalty. Automatic rollovers would temper the urge for early spending. 
 Congress must do a lot more to help Americans have more secure retirements. Modest tax increases and modest benefit cuts, phased in over decades, could put Social Security on a firm financial footing, if only Congress would act. A modernized system of unemployment compensation and universal health care coverage would allay the potentially devastating financial setbacks of joblessness and illness. Both would help to ensure that money that is put in a retirement account stays there.
 Even if all these issues were addressed right away, some people would still come up short -- unable to rebound from years of undersaving and the bursting of the bubble. Timely repair work could go a long way to averting a wider disaster. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (92%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (91%); HOME PRICES (91%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (91%); HOUSING BUBBLE (91%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); US 401K PLANS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATION (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%); PERSONAL DEBT (70%); DEBIT CARDS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008



350 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Oil's Fall and Bargain-Hunting Help Market Rebound

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street rebounded on Thursday, rising sharply as oil prices fell and investors took advantage of bargains in financial stocks after two days of heavy declines.
 Crude oil backtracked as traders who sent oil soaring Wednesday in response to declining gasoline supplies realized that demand for fuel was still falling. Light crude fell 99 cents to settle at $115.01 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The pullback helped reassure stock traders who are concerned that rising oil and gas prices will force consumers to keep paring back their spending. 
 Stocks initially fell after the Labor Department reported another hefty jump in consumer prices. The 0.8 percent overall rise in July's Consumer Price Index was twice as high as the market expected, and brings inflation to its highest annual pace in 17 years. The core index, which eliminates food and energy prices, was not up as much, but it still rose by 0.3 percent -- slightly more than forecast.
 The market turned higher as investors began looking more positively at stock prices that were beaten down for two sessions as anxiety rose about credit losses at banks and brokerage firms.
 ''The greater fear right now is missing the next big rally,'' said Richard Dickson, senior analyst at Lowry Research in Florida. ''Inflation numbers were bad, but they are probably going to get better. The fact that the market has not sold off with any strength, investors are saying, 'Hey, let's go ahead and buy.' ''
 The Dow Jones industrial index rose 82.97 points, or 0.72 percent, to close at 11,615.93, after rising more than 180 points earlier. It lost a total of nearly 250 points on Tuesday and Wednesday.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 7.10 points, or 0.55 percent, to 1,292.93, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 25.05 points, or 1.03 percent, to 2,453.67. The Russell 2000 index, which primarily tracks small companies, rose 6.69 points, or 0.89 percent, to 754.38.
 Reports of more credit losses at banks like UBS and JPMorgan Chase had sent shares tumbling this week. But those declines made many companies look more attractive Thursday.
 Moreover, with many investors on vacation, and therefore fewer people trading, price moves were exaggerated.
 JPMorgan Chase and Morgan Stanley became the latest financial firms to settle with regulators over their sale of auction-rate securities when they agreed on Thursday to repurchase a combined $7 billion of the investments. The companies will also pay a total $60 million in fines.
 JPMorgan Chase rose 90 cents to close at $37.81, while Morgan Stanley rose 49 cents, to $40.64.
 Airlines also showed sharp gains Thursday, buoyed by the falling price of oil. AMR, the parent of American Airlines, gained 42 cents, or 3.9 percent, to $11.28, while UAL, operator of United Airlines, rose 62 cents, or 5.1 percent, to $12.68. Delta Air Lines rose 48 cents, or 5.8 percent, to $8.82.
 The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 12/32, to 100 30/32. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, fell to 3.89 percent, from 3.93 percent.
 Following are the results of Thursday's Treasury auction of 31-day cash management bills:

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Chart details daily activity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); AUCTIONS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (77%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); FOOD PRICES (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); FINES & PENALTIES (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (86%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (86%); JPM (LSE) (86%); 8634 (TSE) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (86%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (86%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (86%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (86%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008



351 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; YOUR SECOND HOME RENTING OUT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Bright Spot in a Bad Economy

BYLINE: By BILLIE COHEN

 BODY:
IN these tough times, with gas prices setting records and airfares skyrocketing, many people are lucky to have jobs, let alone time to take a vacation. And yet there's some good news for second-home owners hoping to rent out an investment property: vacationers are turning to these rentals more than ever. 
 ''As the economy sours, demand for vacation home rentals increases, as rental homes are seen as inexpensive alternatives to luxury hotels,'' said Douglas Pope, a founder of HotPads.com, a real estate search engine. ''Also, people are now beginning to divert their vacations to more local spots where rental homes are an option.'' 
 Not that you should run out and buy an investment property with the hope of getting rich on rentals or a short-term flip.
 ''If you're going to flip it in a year or two, this is not the thing to do,'' said Anne-marie Boyer, a broker with San Diego's Finest Real Estate. ''You need to plan to be in it for the long haul.'' 
 But if you're already in it, there is room for hope.
 ''Vacation rentals as a category are growing well in the U.S.,'' said Justin Halloran, managing director of United States brands for HomeAway, a group of vacation-rental Web sites. ''They are taking shares from hotels because they give more space, freedom and amenities than hotels'' -- like kitchens, private pools and more bedrooms for less money.
 Mr. Halloran said that both supply and demand are going up, particularly in what are called ''drive markets,'' regions that vacationers can reach by car, like the Hamptons in New York or Ocean City, Md. 
 In the second quarter of 2008, inquiries about vacation rentals in Las Vegas on HomeAway.com increased 67 percent from the same period in 2007, and the supply of properties was up 31 percent. Similarly, in Palm Springs, Calif., demand went up 58 percent and supply 31 percent; and in Manhattan, demand grew 166 percent and supply 108 percent. 
 So if you bought a second property to rent out, you're not necessarily in for a dry spell. And while your first thought might be to hire a property manager to find tenants, that's not necessarily your best option.
 ''You need to be very cautious in choosing your property manager, and be sure to have a firm understanding of what is expected from their services,'' Mr. Pope said. ''You should also not necessarily leave all the marketing up to the property manager. They generally have a lot of properties in their portfolio to worry about; you may want to give your own property special attention.'' 
 To do that, look to online vacation-rental listings you can publish yourself, which can give you a wide audience with little effort. Some of these sites, like HotPads.com and Craigslist.org, offer free listings, while others, like VRBO.com and HomeAway.com, provide a number of services based on a subscription fee.
 ''My first recommendation, to the extent that your budget allows it, is to buy multiple subscriptions,'' Mr. Halloran said. ''You'll reach different audiences.'' 
 And don't ignore the overseas market. ''I wouldn't recommend that someone, say, with an apartment or condo on the Texas Gulf should advertise in the U.K.,'' Mr. Halloran said, ''but if you've got a place in Orlando, you're probably going to get some good demand from Germany and the U.K.'' 
 The next step is to make sure that your listing stands out from the rest, by doing things like ''taking the right photos, writing compelling titles and making sure your availability calendar is updated,'' Mr. Halloran said. Photos, he said, are the most important factor.
 You might also think about financial incentives to draw renters. 
 ''A lot of people have owned their property for a while,'' said Robert Boyer, a real estate investor adviser with San Diego's Finest Real Estate. ''They can drop their rates a little bit and still come out with a positive cash flow, or at least not a negative cash flow. Whereas people who've bought more recently have a more difficult time.''
 If you aren't having much luck, consider offering a different kind of incentive. On HomeAway.com, Mr. Halloran has seen people offer a free eighth day on a seven-day stay or no cleaning fee. ''There was one in Maine that offered a free bucket of live lobsters and a bucket of beer,'' he said. 
 Clearly, with a little online savvy, a little creativity -- and maybe a little beer -- you can still find renters. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY NANCY DONIGER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LODGING (89%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); PROPERTY LEASES (77%); AIR FARES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%)

COMPANY: HOMEAWAY INC (54%)

TICKER: AWAY (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008



352 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1839 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

 BODY:
AROUND TOWN
 Museums and Sites
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street. Saturday at 2 p.m., a performance of music from the Dominican Republic and Haiti by the group Pa'Lo Monte. Through Nov. 4, ''Campaigning for President: New York and the American Election,'' an exhibition of campaign memorabilia, including buttons, banners, posters and clothing; the display is from the collection of Jordan M. Wright, who died on May 11 and was its guest curator. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. Suggested admission: $9; $5 for students and 62+; free for children under 12 and for everyone on Sundays, 10 a.m. to noon; $20 for families. Through Nov. 2, admission is free for those with a paid receipt from a visit to the New-York Historical Society. 
 NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street. Through Sunday, ''Woven Splendor From Timbuktu to Tibet: Exotic Rugs and Textiles From New York Collectors,'' and ''Allure of the East: Orientalism in New York, 1850-1930.'' Through Nov. 2, ''Plague in Gotham!: Cholera in Nineteenth-Century New York,'' an exhibition examining the epidemic in New York beginning in 1832, featuring illustrated maps, portraits and displays of remedies. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; to 8 p.m. on Fridays; Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org. $10; $7 for educators and 65+; $6 for students; free from 6 to 8 p.m. on Fridays; free at all times for members and children under 12. Through Nov. 2, admission is free for those with a paid receipt from a visit to the Museum of the City of New York.
 NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS, 111 Amsterdam Avenue, at 65th Street, Lincoln Center. Through Oct. 31, ''Take Me Out to the Ball Game: 100 Years of Music, Musicians, and the National Pastime,'' an exhibition of slides, photographs, sheet music and recordings that focus on the game's influence on composers like Irving Berlin, Charles Ives, William Schuman and George M. Cohan. Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Mondays and Thursdays, noon to 8 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. (212) 870-1630, nypl.org. Free. 
 NEW YORK TRANSIT MUSEUM Boerum Place and Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn Heights. Through Dec. 7, ''Tools of the Trade,'' an exhibition of 50 items that have been used to build and maintain the city's transportation system since the 1880s; included are an anemometer (wind gauge), a pneumatic drill and signal locks. Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. (718) 694-1600. $5; $3 for ages 3 to 17 and 62+; free for members and children under 3 every day, and for 62+ on Wednesdays. At the Gallery Annex, Grand Central Terminal, next to the stationmaster's office, on view through Nov. 2, ''What's New?'' a display of items recently added to the museum's collection that includes a World War II air raid siren from an elevated subway station. Mondays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. (212) 878-0106. Free.
 THE PALEY CENTER FOR MEDIA, 25 West 52nd Street, Manhattan. Through Sept. 7, a display of artwork inspired by the television series ''Family Guy,'' with simultaneous screenings of episodes from the show. Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. (until 8 p.m. on Thursdays). (212) 621-6600; paleycenter.org. $10; $8 for students and 62+; $5 for children under 14. 
 Events
 EAST 55TH STREET CONSERVATIVE SYNAGOGUE STREET FAIR, Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on Lexington Avenue, from 42nd to 57th Streets. HARLEM WEEK Daylong outdoor cultural activities continue on Saturday and Sunday along West 135th Street, from St. Nicholas Avenue to Fifth Avenue, with an international fair with crafts and food, dance performances, music and film screenings. There will also be a health fair and a car show on Sunday. harlemweek.com. 
 INDIAN PARADE AND FESTIVAL, Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on Madison Avenue, from 23rd to 41st Streets. 
 MOVIES UNDER THE STARS, Pier 1, Riverside Park South, at 70th Street. Wednesday at 8:30 p.m., ''All the President's Men'' (1976). Part of Summer on the Hudson, nycparks.org. Free.
 MOVIES WITH A VIEW, Empire-Fulton Ferry State Park, reachable from Main and Plymouth Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn. A free film screening series on Thursdays. This Thursday, ''Being There'' (1979), by Hal Ashby, with Peter Sellers; also the short animated film ''John and Karen'' (2007), by Matthew Walker. brooklynbridgepark.org. 
 NEW YORKERS FOR NEW YORK CITY, a benefit sightseeing cruise on the Circle Line, Wednesdays through Aug. 27. Boarding is at 6:15 p.m. at Pier 83, 42nd Street and the West Side Highway; the boat sails at 6:45 p.m. $27; includes music, a beverage and a $5 donation to the Food Bank for New York City. (212) 563-3200; circleline42.com.
 OUTDOOR CINEMA AT SOCRATES SCULPTURE GARDEN, 32-01 Vernon Boulevard, at Broadway, Long Island City, Queens. Wednesday at 7 p.m., ''Duck Season'' (Mexico, 2006), by Fernando Eimbcke, with music by Bachelor Sound Machin. (718) 956-1819, socratessculpturepark.org. Free.
 PASSPORT FRIDAYS 2008, Queens Museum of Art, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park. A free outdoor series of international music, dance and film continues this Friday from 6:30 to 10:30 p.m. with Singh & Dance, music by D.J. Rehka and a screening of the 2006 film ''The Namesake''; rain location, inside the museum. The museum galleries and cafe will also be open until 8 p.m. (718) 592-9700.
 SIXTH CENTRAL PARK FILM FESTIVAL, Rumsey Playfield, midpark at 70th Street. Tuesday at 8 p.m., ''Working Girl'' (1988), with Melanie Griffith; gates open at 6 p.m. Sponsored by the Central Park Conservancy. centralparknyc.org. Free. 
 STONEWALL DEMOCRATIC CLUB STREET FAIR, Saturday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on Waverly Place, from Broadway to Fifth Avenue, Greenwich Village. 
 SUMMER STREETS For the next two Saturdays, from 7 a.m. to 1 p.m., a car-free route for bicycling, playing or just walking in Manhattan, starting at its southern tip, running north along Lafayette Street to Fourth Avenue, to Park Avenue, to 72nd Street and west to Central Park. With entertainment, fitness classes and other activities along the route. Bicycle rides to the area, escorted by Transportation Alternatives, will be available from neighborhoods in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx. nyc.gov/summerstreets. 
 ROCKEFELLER CENTER FARMERS MARKET, 50th Street, between Fifth Avenue and Avenue of the Americas. Wednesdays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., through Aug. 29. (212) 332-6868.
 SUMMER IN THE SQUARE Free entertainment concludes this Thursday in Union Square Park, with a 12:30 p.m. performance of children's theater by Daryl Roth Theaters, followed by a yoga class at 3 p.m. and Latin music by Sonido Isleno at 5:30 p.m. unionsquarenyc.org.
 SUMMER SEAPORT FESTIVAL, Saturday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on Water Street, from Fulton to Broad Streets, Lower Manhattan. THEATER FOR THE NEW CITY STREET THEATER presents ''It's the Economy, Stupid! or the Turning Point'' on Saturday at St. Mary's Park, 147th Street and St. Ann's Avenue, Mott Haven, the Bronx, and on Sunday, at the Central Park Bandshell, reachable from 72nd Street. Both are at 2 p.m. (212) 254-1109. Free.
 2008 SUMMER IN LITTLE ITALY FESTIVAL, Mulberry and Hester Streets. Saturday at 3 p.m., a performance of Italian folk songs and operatic arias by the soprano Cristina Fontanelli. littleitalynyconline.org; (212) 302-0551. Free.
 ST. CECILE SCHOLARSHIP FUND STREET FAIR, Saturday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on Avenue of the Americas, from 14th to 23rd Streets.
 URBAN PARK RANGERS Saturday at 11 a.m., a hike on the Cass Gallagher Trail in Van Cortlandt Park, meeting at Mosholu Avenue and Broadway, the Bronx. Also Saturday at 1 p.m., ''A Walk Back in Time: Fort Totten,'' meeting at Fort Totten Park, 212th Street and the Cross Island Parkway, Queens. nyc.gov/parks/rangers. Free. 
 VILLAGE COMMUNITY FOR JEFFERSON MARKET STREET FAIR, Saturday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on Greenwich Avenue, between Avenue of the Americas and Seventh Avenue, Greenwich Village. 
 Spoken Word
 ENVIRONMENTAL POETRY NIGHT, Sunday at 6 p.m., Inwood Hill Park, Nature Center, West 218th Street and Indian Road. Open-mic readings. nycgovparks.org. (212) 304-2365.
 Walking Tours
 CENTER FOR THE URBAN ENVIRONMENT Sunday at 1 p.m., ''Scandals, Scalawags and Murder Most Foul'' visits graves of the notorious in Green-Wood Cemetery, meeting in Brooklyn at the entrance at 25th Street and Fifth Avenue, Sunset Park. (718) 788-8500, Ext. 208. $13; $10 for members; $8 for 62+ and students. 
 CENTRAL PARK CONSERVANCY Weekend tours of Central Park. Saturday and Sunday at noon, ''Seneca Village'' covers one of the earliest communities of black property owners, meeting at the southeast corner of Central Park West and 85th Street. centralparknyc.org. Free. 
 I'LL TAKE MANHATTAN TOURS Sunday at 1 p.m., ''The Harlem Renaissance & Beyond,'' meeting on the northwest corner of 135th Street and Malcolm X Boulevard, Hamilton Heights. (732) 270-5559. $15. 
 IN-DEPTH WALKING TOURS Saturday and Sunday at 11 a.m., ''Newspaper Row'' covers the newspaper district of 1900s New York, meeting on the southeast corner of Broadway and Fulton Street, Lower Manhattan. (917) 607-9019. $20.
 LINCOLN SQUARE: GATEWAY TO THE UPPER WEST SIDE, the first and third Sunday of every month through October, at 2 p.m., tours of this Manhattan neighborhood, meeting on the southwest corner of Broadway and 60th Street. Sponsored by the Lincoln Square Business Improvement District. (212) 581-3774. Free.
 NEW YORK TALKS AND WALKS Saturday at 7 p.m., ''Summer Nights, Lights and Delights: Twilight Walk of the Brooklyn Bridge Waterfalls,'' meeting outside Starbucks, 38 Park Row, Lower Manhattan. (888) 377-4455; $20, cash; $15, credit card. 
 PARK SLOPE NEIGHBORHOOD WALK PART II, a Brooklyn tour that includes visits to the Soldiers and Sailors Monument and a mansion, meeting Sunday at 10 a.m. at the Grand Army Arch. (718) 421-2021; nycgovparks.org. Free. 
 PHOTO WALK-ABOUTS, tours of several Manhattan locations with instruction in photography. Friday at 2 p.m., Central Park, meeting near the General Sherman Statue, 59th Street and Fifth Avenue. Saturday at 10 a.m., Greenwich Village, meeting at Father Demo Square, Avenue of the Americas at Bleecker Street; Saturdays at 2 p.m., the Financial District, meeting at Trinity Church, Broadway and Wall Street, Lower Manhattan. (917) 557-3693; photowalkabouts.com. Each, $20 (cash only). 
 SHOREWALKERS Sunday at 10:45 a.m., ''Rockaway Park Beach Hike and Swim,'' a walk along the boardwalk with time for a swim, meeting at the Rockaway Park-Beach 116th Street subway stop, reachable by the A train to Broad Channel and the Rockaway Park shuttle train; (201) 332-1709. 
 WALL STREET HISTORY is the subject of a tour on Sunday at 1 p.m., meeting at 57 Wall Street, near William Street, Lower Manhattan. Sponsored by 1792 Wall Street Walks. (212) 666-0175; 1792wallstreetwalks.com. $20.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); HISTORY (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); MUSIC (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (73%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (73%); PHOTOGRAPHY (73%); TROPICAL DISEASES (72%); TEXTILES (71%); LIBRARIES (71%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (94%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); HAITI (91%); TIBET (79%); CHINA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008



353 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: Seven to Watch as Games Start Shifting From Pool to Track

BYLINE: By LYNN ZINSER

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
A week into the Olympics, track and field is about to assume center stage at the Beijing Games on Friday, taking an imaginary torch from swimming and carrying it through the final day of competition.
 Here is a look at some of the faces of the United States team and the stories that will play out at the Bird's Nest, the Olympic stadium.
 LOLO JONES, 100-METER HURDLES Jones's journey to the Olympics began in a most unlikely place -- the basement of a church in Des Moines.
 Jones's mother, Lori, and her five children lived a peripatetic existence. Jones said they moved almost constantly, staying one step ahead of rent collectors, and the children attended a new school every year. Jones said her father was not around, that he was in the Air Force and, when he got out, he bounced in and out of jail. 
 ''We were living at the bottom of a church when I was in third or fourth grade,'' Jones said. ''I don't know how long. First thing I knew I was going to camp there and next thing I knew we were living in the basement. I'd sneak up before the kids came to the camp like I had just arrived there. It was weird.''
 When Jones was in high school, striving to earn a college track scholarship, she said she told her mother she would not move any more. Her last three years of high school, she lived with three families. 
 ''I just wanted to get out of poverty,'' she said. ''I knew what my mom was experiencing, working two jobs to help feed us. I just knew that getting to college was the answer. I wanted solid ground for the future. My main goal was not track. My main goal was college.''
 Jones graduated from Theodore Roosevelt High School in Des Moines and earned a scholarship to run at Louisiana State. She graduated in 2004 with a degree in economics.
 But Jones found her way back to forced frugality. She wanted to continue in track and field, but she had no endorsement contracts. So she worked part-time jobs, including as a cashier at The Home Depot, and refused to turn on the air-conditioning during some of Louisiana's hottest summer days.
 So it seemed fitting that Jones celebrated her victory in the Olympic trials with one of the most emotional celebrations of the meet. She pumped her arms and legs and screamed, hurling her trademark sunglasses into the crowd.
 ''It was like in the movies, I had a flashback,'' Jones said. ''I just remembered four years ago, not making the team and going outside and crying and wanting to give up. I crossed that line and knew I was on that team and I knew I was going to be an Olympian.''
 She might be the quintessential American Olympian, with a diverse heritage -- her family is a mix of French, German, Norwegian, African-American and American Indian -- and a story of overcoming a life full of barriers.
 LEONEL MANZANO, 1,500 METERS When Manzano was growing up in Marble Falls, Tex., his parents could not understand why he wanted to run. They had brought their family to the United States from Mexico when Manzano was 4 years old, expecting they would all work hard and build a better life.
 ''I remember telling my parents I was joining this thing called track and field, and they were like, 'What is that?' '' he said. ''They were actually kind of mad at me.''
 Manzano is one of three immigrant stories in the men's 1,500. Better publicized are the journeys of the defending world champion Bernard Lagat, who ran in the 2004 Games for Kenya, and Lopez Lomong, who was one of the Lost Boys of Sudan before coming to the United States at age 16. When Manzano finished second in the trials, after Lagat and before Lomong, he fit in perfectly.
 ''I have my roots, my culture,'' Manzano said. ''But America is my home.''
 DEE DEE TROTTER, 400 METERS Less than two months before the Olympic trials, Trotter went to close a car door, but it bounced back and slammed into her left knee. It chipped her femur bone and left fragments in her knee.
 At 25, Trotter was suddenly out of training and watching her dream of an individual Olympic medal slip away. She had won a gold medal as part of the 4x400-meter relay in the 2004 Games. 
 ''I'm here competing with the grace of God and a great doctor back in Knoxville, who has me pretty much together enough to come out here and compete,'' said Trotter, who fought her way back to finish third in the Olympic trials.
 Trotter's luggage was lost on the trip to Beijing. Eventually, it arrived along with her most cherished pre-Games purchase: the DVD of the fifth season of ''SpongeBob SquarePants.''
 ''I do watch SpongeBob,'' Trotter said. ''He calms my nerves before a race. For some reason, his antics and his silliness is something I really cherish when I'm getting ready to race. Sometimes you need something to take you down a notch.''
 ADAM NELSON, SHOT-PUT In the past two Olympics, Nelson has gone home with a silver medal. This time, he does not know what he will go home with, but he knows what awaits him when he arrives.
 Nelson's wife, Laci, is expecting their first child in early September. They are trying to sandwich all this excitement around Laci starting law school and Adam starting graduate school classes at the University of Virginia.
 Oh, and there is the Olympic shot-put, which kicks off track and field's medal events on Friday. Not only is Nelson a threat to win another medal, the United States team is so strong it hopes to sweep the medals. Nelson, Reese Hoffa and Christian Cantwell have combined for 14 of the 20 best throws in the world this year.
 ''That's certainly a big motivation for the three shot-putters,'' Nelson said. ''We know we are the best in the world, and we all expect to do well here.
 ''There is a little bit of pressure. They look to us to start the medal tally.''
 JENNIFER BARRINGER, STEEPLECHASE In Barringer's first attempt at the steeplechase, she hated it. In fact, she disliked the entire season. She was a freshman at Colorado and because she was not among the team's top 5,000-meter runners, her coach told her to try the steeplechase, a relatively new event for women.
 ''I thought it was a grueling race,'' Barringer said. ''My legs were really sore, every day. There's a painful adjustment to the ballistic elements of the race. It was really difficult for me to get into it at first. I maybe slightly resented the fact that I wasn't in the 5,000.''
 Like the event or not, Barringer won the N.C.A.A. championship that season and had a new specialty. She finished second at the Olympic trials behind Anna Willard, and just two weeks later in a meet in Germany, she smashed the American record with a time of 9 minutes 22.73 seconds.
 Women's steeplechase was added to the Olympic program for the Beijing Games.
 ''We get asked all the time: 'Now what's the steeplechase? Is that a horse event?' '' said Lindsey Anderson, Barringer's teammate. ''It's fun to actually explain it, the history of it, that it's going to be the first time it's going to be in the Olympics.''
 SHAWN CRAWFORD, 200 METERS Four years ago, Crawford was on top of the world. He led a United States sweep of the 200 meters at the Athens Olympics and exulted as the gold medalist.
 But the ensuing years brought a steroid scandal to his door -- his coach, Trevor Graham, became the pivotal figure in the Balco scandal -- as well as injuries and an upheaval to his training when Graham was shooed from the sport.
 Crawford was never implicated in any doping cases and he said he never had anything to do with the substances uncovered in Balco. Still, the scandal had its effect on him.
 ''Nobody knows what actually happened except for the people who were involved,'' Crawford said. ''Justice prevails, that's how I look at it. I still look at Trevor, he's a good friend of mine, a great coach, took me to some of the best times of my career. Just watching that, it disappoints you a little bit.''
 WALTER DIX, 100 AND 200 METERS Before the Olympic trials, Dix was known as the runner who was bucking the normal trends. He stayed at Florida State for a year after he graduated to finish out his eligibility, and he did not immediately sign with a sponsor.
 He is also the only American man competing in both the 100 and the 200, a double becoming increasingly rare. 
 ''A lot of people run the rounds and they don't win but they have the world record,'' Dix said. ''It definitely has to do with toughness, physically and mentally. Sometimes the fastest guy doesn't win, but the strongest guy always wins.''
 Dix plans on being that guy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left, the hurdler Lolo Jones, the 1,500-meter runner Leonel Manzano and the shot-putter Adam Nelson.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LEFT, MATTHEW STOCKMAN/GETTY IMAGES
CENTER, ANDY WONG/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 CLAUDIO BRESCIANI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRACK & FIELD (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); RUNNING (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (88%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (77%); FAMILY (75%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%)

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (63%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (56%)

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (63%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008



354 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2288 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES, AUGUST 15, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 BEHIND POMP OF GAMES,
 A Dancer's Serious Injury
 The story behind the opening ceremony for the Beijing Olympics continues to grow: a 26-year-old dancer was seriously injured during a rehearsal just 12 days before the show and may be paralyzed for the rest of her life. People who have visited her in the hospital say organizers initially asked witnesses and friends not to disclose the accident. PAGE A5
 THE FRINGES OF INDIA'S PROSPERITY
 Amid the many changes in India, one thing remains the same: a tendency to behave as though some humans were born to serve and others to be served. The subject, usually overlooked, has been raised by a provocative new film that tells the story of three migrants to Mumbai from northern India who work as a chauffeur, a waiter and a security guard. They endure the callousness that comes with being an accessory to other people's lives. PAGE A7 
 OPPOSITION LEADER BRIEFLY STOPPED
 Agents of Zimbabwe's intelligence service temporarily confiscated the travel documents of the chief opposition leader and his party's main strategist at the airport in the Zimbabwean capital, preventing them from boarding a flight to Johannesburg for a meeting to discuss the political deadlock in Zimbabwe. A spokesman for the president of Zimbabwe accused the opposition leader of provoking the incident. PAGE A10
 JAPAN'S IMPORTED LABOR
 Japan, with a rapidly aging population and low birthrate, is facing acute labor shortages in its farming towns, fishing villages, factories, restaurants and other businesses. Closed to immigration, Japan has admitted foreign workers through various loopholes, and they have become a source of cheap labor. But that unofficial supply route has left some businesses continually scrambling for a dependable work force and the foreigners vulnerable to abuse. PAGE A5
 NIGERIA GIVES LAND TO CAMEROON
 Nigeria officially handed over the potentially oil-rich Bakassi Peninsula to Cameroon, ending -- perhaps -- 15 years of political debate and periodic violence. The ceremony was overseen by senior politicians, United Nations officials and a heavy military presence. The peninsula has been in diplomatic limbo since Cameroon filed suit with the International Court of Justice in The Hague in 1994. PAGE A6
 OBITUARIES
 HENRY B. R. BROWN, 82
 He was a struggling financial consultant in 1969 when he and a partner came up with an idea -- the money-market mutual fund -- that spawned a $3.5 trillion industry. PAGE C12
 national
 LINK BUT NO MOTIVE FOUND 
 In Arkansas Politician's Killing
 A day after a gunman fatally shot the chairman of the Arkansas Democratic Party at its headquarters in Little Rock, investigators found evidence that the suspect, who was subsequently shot and killed in a police shootout, might have been thinking about his victim in advance, although they were unable to determine why. PAGE A12
 ELEPHANT STIRS DEBATE IN DALLAS
 Jenny has had a hard life, even by elephant standards, starting from when she was orphaned at a young age to her mistreatment at the hands of a circus trainer in later years. Now at the Dallas Zoo, Jenny has become the focus of a boisterous debate about what to do with an aging elephant with a troubled mind. Beyond the debate lies a national struggle between zoos and animal rights groups that, frankly, would rather see a world without elephant exhibits. PAGE A11
 OBAMA LOW-KEY DURING VACATION
 For the last several days, Senator Barack Obama has seemed to fade from the scene while on his secluded vacation in Hawaii, as his opponent, Senator John McCain, has seized nearly every opportunity to display his foreign policy credentials on the dominant issue of the week: the conflict between Russia and Georgia. PAGE A15
 JURY RULES FOR TEXAS PASTOR 
 A jury found that Victoria Osteen, the co-pastor of Lakewood Church in Texas, one of the nation's largest megachurches, did not assault a Continental Airlines flight attendant during an argument in 2005 and would not have to pay damages. PAGE A12
 IS IT REALLY BIGFOOT?
 A pair of Bigfoot hunters say they will present what they contend is the most definitive proof yet of an animal that science says does not exist: DNA evidence and photographs of a dead specimen they say they found in a remote swath of woods in northern Georgia. ''I'm not asking anyone to believe us,'' said one of the hunters. ''I'm just asking them to sit and watch, because you're going to eat your words.'' PAGE A12
 OCEANS STARVED OF OXYGEN
 Many coastal areas of the world's oceans are being starved of oxygen at an alarming rate, with vast stretches along the seafloor depleted of it to the point where they can barely sustain marine life, researchers are reporting. The main culprit, scientists say, is nitrogen-rich nutrients from crop fertilizers that spill into coastal waters by way of rivers and streams. PAGE A13
 Tumultuous Day for Detroit Mayor A13
 SPORTS
 BICYCLING STREETS OF BEIJING
 Is Not for the Faint of Heart
 Rising incomes have allowed automobiles to replace bicycles as the primary means of transportation in Beijing. But bikes can still be found on every street, in all shapes, sizes and uses. Children bounce on the luggage rack behind their parents, and older women teeter on even older bikes. No one wears a helmet. And, for someone unschooled in the rules of the road, joining in can be a harrowing experience. PAGE D1 
 A BRAWNY GAME OF NERVES
 Olympic weightlifting may look like a simple matter of defeating gravity. But inside a room behind the stage, coaches huddle in small groups, speak in hushed tones and position lifters like giant pieces on a chessboard. Dozens of factors play into their decisions; rules, timing and good fortune are critical. Mistakes here cost athletes four years' worth of work. PAGE D3
 SOMEONE TO TURN TO
 Tyson Gay is the defending world champion in the 100 meters and he and his Jamaican rivals, Usain Bolt and Asafa Powell, are the three fastest men in track and field history. The showdown Friday in the 100 is expected to be spectacular. But if Gay needs someone to turn to before the race, it is likely to be somebody who really doesn't know that much about track: his mother. PAGE D4 
 metro 
 Opposing a Homeless Center, 
 Despite City Concessions
 In an effort to ease opposition to plans by New York City's homeless agency to move its central intake center from Manhattan to the Bedford-Atlantic Armory in Brooklyn, an official for the agency said it would close an existing 150-bed shelter in the neighborhood and take other measures to ease the burden. For some opponents, that was not nearly enough. PAGE B3 
 AN UNLIKELY TARGET
 Fernando M. Camacho started as a young assistant in the Manhattan district attorney's office and climbed the legal ladder, passing through the criminal courts of two boroughs and ending up an as acting State Supreme Court justice. On Tuesday, somebody put four bullets into his home in Queens. For the moment, investigators are working on a theory that the attack may have resulted from a mistake. PAGE B1 
 REHEARING CASE OF DEPORTEE
 A federal appeals court in New York will take the unusual step of rehearing a case it dismissed in June, a lawsuit filed by a telecommunications engineer from Canada who was detained at Kennedy Airport in 2002, flown to Jordan and expelled to Syria, where he said he was tortured. PAGE B4 
 BUSINESS
 CALIFORNIA COMPANIES PLAN
 Large Solar Power Plants
 Two California companies said they would build solar plants, each of which will be 10 times as large as the largest now in service and together would have about the capacity of a large coal-burning plant or a small nuclear plant. Pacific Gas and Electric, which is under a statemandate to get 20 percent of its electricity from renewable sources by 2010, will buy the power. PAGE C4
 T-MOBILE PLANS GOOGLE PHONES
 T-Mobile will be the first to offer a mobile phone using Google's Android software, according to people briefed on the company's plans. The phone is expected to match many of the capabilities of Apple's iPhone and other so-called smartphones and to go on sale nationwide before Christmas, perhaps as early as October. PAGE C1
 THE FINANCIAL RISKS OF WAR
 The military conflict between Russia and Georgia has a number of big Wall Street banks beginning to reassess the stability of their businesses in Russia. And while they are not planning to reverse their investments soon, they are increasingly nervous that Russia's high-risk, high-reward environment is becoming too much about the risk. PAGE C1
 PLAN FOR PENSION OBLIGATIONS
 The government is trying to force Delphi, the bankrupt former auto parts unit of General Motors, to transfer more than $1.5 billion of unfunded pension obligations to G.M. by Sept. 30. It is warning Delphi that if it misses the deadline, it will have to contribute more than $2 billion to the fund, a burden that could dash any hopes of Delphi's emerging from bankruptcy with its pension plan intact. PAGE C1
 AIRLINES SEEK TO LINK
 American Airlines and British Airways, along with Iberia, said they planned to apply for antitrust approval from the Transportation Department to form a marketing alliance, allowing them to link their global flight networks. American and British Airways have tried to reach an arrangement twice before, but the aviation landscape is thought to be more amenable now. The union for American's pilots called the deal ''problematic,'' though. PAGE C2
 ECONOMY IN EUROPE CONTRACTS
 Analysts said they were expecting bad financial news from Europe, and they got it: the economy of the 15-nation euro area contracted 0.2 percent in the quarter that ended June 30, the first quarterly shrinkage since the euro was introduced in 1999. But the European Central Bank, which bucked a trend by raising interest rates in July, appears determined to stick to its mandate to tame inflation. PAGE C4
 Montana Resort Lawsuit Settled C4
 ESCAPES
 AS FUEL PRICES RISE,
 Small Trailers Return
 There clearly are people who don't care what the price of fuel is, they're going to tank up and hit the open road. But for those who are more cost- or environmentally attuned, the return of the small trailer or camper can make the difference between going on a summer vacation and sitting under a sprinkler in the backyard. PAGE F1 
 A SANCTUARY FROM GLAMOUR
 As chief executive of A/X Armani Exchange, Harlan Bratcher is knee-deep in the world of Manhattan fabulous. But most weekends find him at Horizon Hill, the Hudson Valley retreat that he shares with his partner in Red Hook, N.Y. ''I grew up in Texas around horses, open spaces and hills,'' he said. ''I'm really a country boy.'' PAGE F1 
 Havens: Williams, Ariz. F3 
 Log Cabins, Rustic to Regal F5 
 Weekend
 OSCAR-WINNING COMPOSER
 Keeps Things Fresh
 As a boy enamored of pop-music sensibilities in 1960s Buenos Aires, Gustavo Santaolalla dreamt big, but achieved bigger. He was the composer for films like ''Brokeback Mountain'' and ''Babel,'' and now two Oscars adorn his mantel. Not one to be held down, he performs on stage with his neotango ensemble Bajofondo, which started as a studio side project, and he now has an album released on July 15 and a European and United States tour. Page E18 
 HIGH SCHOOL IS HARD ENOUGH
 High school can stick with you for a long time. ''The King Is Dead,'' at the Abingdon Theater Arts Complex in Manhattan, takes the angst, anxiety and anticipation of senior year and wraps it all in a cocoon of paranormality. That last fateful year can be rough, particularly if you and your twin sister share psychic visions that both affect and are exploited by the people around you, Rachel Saltz writes. Page E16 
 WHEN THE SPOILS BECOME DAMAGED
 Pushed and pulled, acted upon like a malleable plaything, Gabrielle Deneige of ''A Girl Cut in Two'' finds herself compliant between the desires of two men, one menacing and with odd appetites, the other a man-child scion of a wealthy family. But provocativeness hides beneath her surface as she proceeds willingly into the film's darkest shadows, Manohla Dargis writes. Page E6 
 Simone Weil in Somber Hues E3 
 Editorial
 LESS THAN GOLDEN YEARS
 Even before the housing bubble, the country was facing a serious retirement crisis, with most Americans saving too little, if anything, for their post-working years. The housing bubble and subsequent bust have made that bad situation worse. page A16
 EVERYBODY LOSES
 All sides are claiming victory in last weekend's competing referenda to recall the Bolivian president, Evo Morales, and rival governors. But the continuing political warfare is leading the country to a precarious impasse. page A16
 MR. CORZINE CLAIMS PRIVILEGE
 Gov. Jon Corzine of New Jersey is stretching executive privilege beyond its legal limits, claiming that e-mail messages he exchanged with a union official who was once his girlfriend are protected. They're not. page A16
 op-ed
 PAUL KRUGMAN
 Our great-great-grandfathers lived, as we do, in a world of large-scale international trade and investment, a world destroyed by nationalism. Will the second great age of globalization share the same fate as the first? page A17
 DAVID BROOKS
 The region in Sichuan Province where the earthquake hit three months ago is looking forlorn today. But there is no disguising the emotional resilience and intense mutual support of the survivors -- and no avoiding the baffling sense of equanimity. page A17
 50 YEARS OF FILLING IN THE BLANKS
 On the 50th anniversary of Mad Libs, Leonard Stern, a co-creator of the ''world's greatest word game,'' looks back at other fine inventions of the past half-century. page A17

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCERS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); OLYMPICS (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (83%); IMMIGRATION (79%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); PARALYSIS (78%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); WITNESSES (76%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (74%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%); FOREIGN LABOR (73%); POLITICS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); POLITICAL DEBATES (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); LABOR FORCE (69%); LABOR SHORTAGES (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (64%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%); LITIGATION (60%); ARMED FORCES (50%); AGING (50%); AGING TRENDS (50%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (50%); MUTUAL FUNDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); HARARE, ZIMBABWE (79%); MUMBAI, INDIA (79%) ARKANSAS, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) ZIMBABWE (94%); CAMEROON (93%); JAPAN (93%); INDIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NIGERIA (92%); CHINA (91%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008



355 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Alone or Together: Paths to Glory

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Harmony and the Dream,'' by David Brooks (column, Aug. 12), about American individualism versus China's collectivism, does not acknowledge the ''collectivism'' of our common history and humanity that are core, if not essential, to the American Dream. 
 Despite many unsuccessful attempts to perpetuate the myth that Americans go at it alone, it has been in times when we work together to build our communities and future that America has truly been at its best. 
 We have always been a collection of communities, learning together in our failures and rising together in our successes. And the only way we will continue to prosper together economically or otherwise is to acknowledge our collective history and build a future where no one is left behind. Kaitlin Gravitt
 Tujunga, Calif., Aug. 13, 2008
 To the Editor:
 This time, David Brooks's thoughtful reach exceeds his grasp. He succumbs to the old, discredited cliches about ''Asia'' and ''the West.''
 Japan and China cannot be lumped together at one end of the individualist-collectivist spectrum. The Japanese are far more group- or community-minded than the Chinese. 
 Chairman Mao practiced an exclusive form of collectivism, not through ''harmony'' but through a generation of murderous ''class struggle.'' His was a vain effort to create a ''new socialist man'' who would resist ''the sugar-coated bullets of the bourgeoisie.'' 
 Confucius preached a less violent, but hierarchical, belief in putting the common good before individual satisfactions. Both Confucius and Mao were responding not to some innate Chinese cultural preference for collective welfare but to fiercely individualistic traits in China's complex society.
 By resurrecting and adapting Confucius and now stressing ''harmony'' (at least in principle), China's current leaders have sought to unleash but channel that abiding individualism in ways that have thus far produced astonishing economic results. Jerome A. Cohen
 Truro, Mass., Aug. 13, 2008
 The writer is a professor of Chinese law at N.Y.U., and adjunct senior fellow for Asia at the Council on Foreign Relations.
 To the Editor:
 As an Asian-American, I am tired of the stereotypes that David Brooks perpetuates: Asians bow to the collective will and value harmony, while Westerners chase individualistic dreams.
 Those who believe this dichotomy will not understand that China's growth is fueled by private enterprise, and led by individuals who keep much wealth for themselves. Today, China has more than 40 billionaires, more than 400,000 millionaires and the fastest growing luxury goods market in the world.
 Deng Xiaoping once said, ''To get rich is glorious.'' This holds true for Asians and Westerners alike. Therefore, salving the tensions caused by income disparity is as much a challenge for the Chinese as it is for Americans who believe that the outrageous levels of chief executive and Wall Street pay are fundamentally unfair and unharmonious for our society. 
 Gina Kim
 Shoreview, Minn., Aug. 12, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Citing China's rise, David Brooks suggests that ''collective'' values, such as ''harmony'' and ''duty,'' may offer a cultural basis for growth distinct from the West's focus on the individual.
 But culture does not determine growth. North and South Korea, unified by communitarian norms, have had very different experiences. 
 One way to square the circle, as Mr. Brooks implies, is that autocrats can use culture to serve economic goals. Indeed, China has promoted Confucian values, such as respect for authority.
 In an authoritarian system, emphasizing traditional values has its limits. In China, farmers, pensioners and minorities have been dispossessed; corruption has riddled reform of the banking and legal systems; inadequate regulation has meant environmental degradation. 
 These factors stunt growth and create deep social fissures.
 The unity we've seen in the Beijing Olympics has masked these problems. Collectivism may help China succeed, but that result is contingent on fundamental political reform.
 Joel Wuthnow
 New York, Aug. 13, 2008
 The writer is a Ph.D. candidate in political science at Columbia University, specializing in Chinese politics and foreign policy.
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks would have us believe that the ''harmonious collective'' and the ''American dream'' are somehow culturally exclusive. 
 China's recent economic success can be directly attributed to allowing its citizens to live the American dream of the capitalistic financial model, a very Western concept, a lesson they learned from the failed Communist system of the Soviet Union.
 The problem that China's political leaders will face is that now that their people have had a taste of economic freedom, their citizens will want the same freedom in what they say and publish, their ability to freely assemble and what religion they choose to practice. 
 Regardless of whether genetics, biology or geography is the driving force in creating who, as a species, we are, history has shown that man chooses to live free and that totalitarian regimes, no matter how attractive they make that form of government to its citizens, will eventually fall. China will learn to adapt or pay the consequences. 
 How Mr. Brooks can have anything positive to say about such an oppressive regime as China is beyond comprehension. Jack Stutman
 Orlando, Fla., Aug. 12, 2008
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks makes a false distinction between China's accomplishments, deemed ''collective'' and therefore ''miraculous,'' and the accomplishments of the West, which he ascribes to our individualism.
 While Western cultures tend to skew more toward individualistic thinking and rhetoric, I would argue that the greatest accomplishments of all societies have been collective in nature. 
 Market-obsessed conservatives continue to insist on competition and individuality, and claim Western forays into collectivism have been bloated bureaucratic failures. I would argue that the Moon landing, the defeat of Nazism, the triumph of rural electrification and most other accomplishments of the West have depended on cooperation rather than competition.
 Free markets provide us with cheap consumer goods, but so does China. When human beings face real challenges, they must work cooperatively, no matter which side of the globe they live on. Sasha Harvard
 Winnipeg, Manitoba, Aug. 12, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PETER O. ZIERLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (83%); WRITERS (73%); ASIAN AMERICANS (66%); RACE & RACISM (64%); LUXURY GOODS (60%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (90%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008



356 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: The Great Illusion

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
So far, the international economic consequences of the war in the Caucasus have been fairly minor, despite Georgia's role as a major corridor for oil shipments. But as I was reading the latest bad news, I found myself wondering whether this war is an omen -- a sign that the second great age of globalization may share the fate of the first.
 If you're wondering what I'm talking about, here's what you need to know: our grandfathers lived in a world of largely self-sufficient, inward-looking national economies -- but our great-great grandfathers lived, as we do, in a world of large-scale international trade and investment, a world destroyed by nationalism. 
 Writing in 1919, the great British economist John Maynard Keynes described the world economy as it was on the eve of World War I. ''The inhabitant of London could order by telephone, sipping his morning tea in bed, the various products of the whole earth ... he could at the same moment and by the same means adventure his wealth in the natural resources and new enterprises of any quarter of the world.''
 And Keynes's Londoner ''regarded this state of affairs as normal, certain, and permanent, except in the direction of further improvement ... The projects and politics of militarism and imperialism, of racial and cultural rivalries, of monopolies, restrictions, and exclusion ... appeared to exercise almost no influence at all on the ordinary course of social and economic life, the internationalization of which was nearly complete in practice.''
 But then came three decades of war, revolution, political instability, depression and more war. By the end of World War II, the world was fragmented economically as well as politically. And it took a couple of generations to put it back together. 
 So, can things fall apart again? Yes, they can.
 Consider how things have played out in the current food crisis. For years we were told that self-sufficiency was an outmoded concept, and that it was safe to rely on world markets for food supplies. But when the prices of wheat, rice and corn soared, Keynes's ''projects and politics'' of ''restrictions and exclusion'' made a comeback: many governments rushed to protect domestic consumers by banning or limiting exports, leaving food-importing countries in dire straits.
 And now comes ''militarism and imperialism.'' By itself, as I said, the war in Georgia isn't that big a deal economically. But it does mark the end of the Pax Americana -- the era in which the United States more or less maintained a monopoly on the use of military force. And that raises some real questions about the future of globalization.
 Most obviously, Europe's dependence on Russian energy, especially natural gas, now looks very dangerous -- more dangerous, arguably, than its dependence on Middle Eastern oil. After all, Russia has already used gas as a weapon: in 2006, it cut off supplies to Ukraine amid a dispute over prices.
 And if Russia is willing and able to use force to assert control over its self-declared sphere of influence, won't others do the same? Just think about the global economic disruption that would follow if China -- which is about to surpass the United States as the world's largest manufacturing nation -- were to forcibly assert its claim to Taiwan.
 Some analysts tell us not to worry: global economic integration itself protects us against war, they argue, because successful trading economies won't risk their prosperity by engaging in military adventurism. But this, too, raises unpleasant historical memories.
 Shortly before World War I another British author, Norman Angell, published a famous book titled ''The Great Illusion,'' in which he argued that war had become obsolete, that in the modern industrial era even military victors lose far more than they gain. He was right -- but wars kept happening anyway.
 So are the foundations of the second global economy any more solid than those of the first? In some ways, yes. For example, war among the nations of Western Europe really does seem inconceivable now, not so much because of economic ties as because of shared democratic values. 
 Much of the world, however, including nations that play a key role in the global economy, doesn't share those values. Most of us have proceeded on the belief that, at least as far as economics goes, this doesn't matter -- that we can count on world trade continuing to flow freely simply because it's so profitable. But that's not a safe assumption. 
 Angell was right to describe the belief that conquest pays as a great illusion. But the belief that economic rationality always prevents war is an equally great illusion. And today's high degree of global economic interdependence, which can be sustained only if all major governments act sensibly, is more fragile than we imagine. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); WORLD WAR II (73%); WORLD WAR I (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (64%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (61%); FOOD CHARITIES (61%); RACE & RACISM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%) CAUCASIAN STATES (92%); GEORGIA (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008



357 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Economy In Europe Contracted Last Quarter

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
The European economy, which so far has been resilient in the face of choppy financial markets and slowing global growth, is finally buckling. 
 The economy of the 15-nation euro area contracted 0.2 percent in the three months ended June 30, data released on Thursday showed. It was the first quarterly retrenchment since the euro was introduced on Jan. 1, 1999. Figures released for the economies of Germany, France and Spain also showed receding or flat growth. 
 The data was the clearest evidence yet that a weaker global economy, high oil prices and the strong euro have taken a serious toll on Europe. But the European Central Bank, which bucked the trend of other major central banks by raising interest rates in July, appears determined to tame inflation, arguing that higher inflation is still a greater threat than lower growth. 
 ''There is no reason, in my view, to dramatize the situation,'' Jurgen Stark, a member of the European bank's executive board, said in an interview. ''However, there is a risk that analysts and politicians talk down the euro area economy, which might have a negative impact on business and consumer sentiment.'' 
 The new figures put much of Europe in the same camp as other major industrialized economies, where the shock of financial turmoil and expensive energy has upended the rosy outlook of a few months ago. The Japanese economy also contracted in the second quarter, and most economists now expect a recession in Britain. 
 In the United States, the government reported on Thursday that inflation reached a 17-year high last month, confirming the economy's precarious position.
 With Europe's economic health fading fast, the central bank will probably avoid raising rates again anytime soon. But the central bank is unlikely to cut them unless it sees clear signs that inflation is easing. 
 Economists seemed to suggest that Europe could narrowly avoid falling into a recession, defined as two or more quarters of contraction in the economy.
 ''We can probably scrape by and avoid another negative quarter,'' said Julian Callow, chief Europe economist at Barclays Capital. ''But we are in for stagnation here.'' 
 The euro area grew 0.7 percent in the first quarter, but officials have conceded that they were surprised by the speed of the slowdown.
 Mr. Stark, a former Bundesbank vice president who epitomizes the German tradition of digging in to fight inflation, talked up the threat, even though oil prices have slid from a high of $147.27 a barrel on July 11. The annual inflation rate in the euro area was 4.1 percent in July, double the bank's target of 2 percent. 
 ''We cannot be sure that inflation will go down significantly as growth slows,'' Mr. Stark said. ''It may be true in some regions of the world but not in the euro area as a whole.'' 
 In Europe, the biggest surprise on Thursday came in France, which unexpectedly joined the ranks of shrinking economies. Its economy contracted 0.3 percent in the second quarter, the clearest sign yet that French consumers, long the bright spot in that economy, were reining in spending as energy costs and lower home prices sapped demand. 
 Output in Germany contracted 0.5 percent in the period, data released Thursday showed. Economists expected the decline because Germany's 1.2 percent growth in the first quarter had been powered by technical factors and brisk construction activity that would not be repeated. 
 The Spanish economy eked out 0.1 percent growth in the second quarter, its slowest rate since a deep recession after the 1992 Barcelona Olympics, and a direct outgrowth of a collapsing real estate sector. 
 After an emergency cabinet meeting, the Spanish government on Thursday approved a 20 billion euros, or $29.6 billion, package of business and consumer financing in a bid to halt the economy's slide. 
 Central banks worldwide are grappling with slower growth and higher inflation, but the European Central Bank has been notable for its single-minded focus on prices. 
 Mr. Stark also said that Europe was home to ''sticky prices and sticky wages.'' 
 Elsewhere, slower growth helps ease price increases because unemployment rises, but economists believe that strong labor unions and regulation damp this effect in Europe. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO (90%); INFLATION (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (70%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (97%); GERMANY (93%); SPAIN (92%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008



358 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Living Costs Rising Fast, And Wages Are Trailing

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
The cost of living, led by the soaring cost of gasoline and food, is rising at the fastest rate since the recession of the early 1990s, the government said on Thursday, handing a de facto pay cut to the American worker.
 The report, from the Labor Department, offered quantitative proof of what Americans have been feeling for months: almost everything costs more, even as they have less money to pay for it. 
 Prices of a wide range of common products in the Consumer Price Index were 5.6 percent higher last month than they were in July 2007, the sharpest annual increase since January 1991.
 Much of the increase has been driven by the immense run-up in gasoline prices. But food, beverage and transportation costs are also significantly higher than they were a year ago.
 The higher prices have made many workers' wages effectively worth less. 
 In July, rank-and-file workers -- those in production or nonsupervisory roles -- earned 3.1 percent less than they did a year ago, after adjusting for the rising cost of living.
 ''Any way you slice it, incomes aren't keeping up with the inflation rate,'' said Michael T. Darda, chief economist at the trading and research firm MKM Partners. 
 It was the 10th consecutive month that the weekly average salary had failed to keep pace with inflation, according to statistics from the Labor Department. 
 Employers are doling out modest wage increases, but not nearly enough to compensate for more expensive food and fuel. 
 ''People see it and they feel it on a daily basis,'' Mr. Darda said. ''If it's gasoline or food, that's visible inflation, and the stuff that households need the most and depend on.''
 Prices have not risen at the speed they did during the oil crises of the 1970s, and financial policy makers have said they do not expect a repeat of the so-called wage-price spiral that led to double-digit inflation rates during that decade.
 But with home values falling and the stock market in a slump, Americans are finding it more and more difficult to pay for basic purchases. Credit card debt has spiraled upward, home foreclosures are rising, and banks have become more guarded in giving out loans and mortgages.
 Social Security recipients are now on track to receive the highest cost-of-living increase since 1982. 
 The Federal Reserve can try to choke off inflation by raising its benchmark interest rate. But such a move would also make it harder for businesses, banks and households to obtain loans, which could cause a further slowdown in the economy. Investors now expect the Fed to hold rates steady until at least the end of the year.
 Some economists have argued that as Americans cut back their spending, demand for products and services will drop, forcing businesses to lower their prices. 
 But inflation is causing pain for businesses, too, as many companies are forced to pay more for fuel and transportation costs for goods. To keep making money, firms may try to pass those costs on to their customers.
 Recent weeks have shown a few indications of relief in fuel prices, as oil prices declined steeply. On Thursday, crude oil futures dropped about a dollar to just over $115 a barrel, down 11 percent from a month ago. 
 Gasoline prices rose 4 percent in July, but that was less than half the 10 percent increase in May. Transportation costs also decelerated. And the dollar has waged a comeback against foreign currencies; on Thursday, it reached a six-month high against the euro.
 But while some economists predicted that inflation would start to ease, they said that process could take several months. Many reserved the right to modify their forecasts if the price of oil rebounded.
 Over all, the Consumer Price Index, considered the benchmark gauge of domestic inflation, rose 0.8 percent in July. Economists had predicted an increase of half that rate. In June, prices rose 1.1 percent, the second highest monthly pace in 26 years.
 The C.P.I. surveys the prices of a basket of common goods and services, from toothpaste and prescription drugs to airline fares and restaurant menus.
 Because food and energy prices can be highly volatile from month to month, the Labor Department also calculates a so-called core price index, which strips out those costs. In July, core C.P.I. rose 0.3 percent, reaching a 2.5 percent annual rate.
 That is higher than the Fed and other economic policy makers would prefer. Central bankers use core C.P.I. to see whether price increases are becoming entrenched in the broader economy; Fed officials are said to prefer to keep the annual inflation rate at or below 2 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In Washington, from left, Angela Stevens, Kenneth Anderson, Rocky Twyman and Jocelyne McClure, sang for cheaper gas.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL J. RICHARDS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(pg. C9) CHARTS: Consumer Prices: Percent change, month to month, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) Chart details bar graph for U.S. and major metropolitan areas.
Tax-Exempt Yields: Average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly.(Source: The Bond Buyer)
 Freddie Mac: Yields Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities.(Source: F.H.L.M.C.) Charts detail line graph for revenue bonds and 30-year percentage.(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COST OF LIVING (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); RECESSION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); GASOLINE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); STATISTICS (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (72%); HOME PRICES (71%); PERSONAL DEBT (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); FORECLOSURE (65%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (65%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008



359 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1985 words

HEADLINE: THE DEBT TRAP; Home Equity Frenzy Was a Bank Ad Come True

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
''Live Richly.''
That catchy slogan, dreamed up by the Fallon Worldwide advertising agency, was pitched in 1999 to executives at Citicorp who were looking for a way to lure Americans to financial products like home equity loans. But some in the room did not like it. They worried the phrase would encourage people to live exorbitantly, says Stephen A. Cone, a top Citi marketer at the time.
Still, ''Live Richly'' won out. The advertising campaign, which cost some $1 billion from 2001 to 2006, urged people to lighten up about money and helped persuade hundreds of thousands of Citi customers to take out home equity loans -- that is, to borrow against their homes. As one of the ads proclaimed: ''There's got to be at least $25,000 hidden in your house. We can help you find it.''
Not long ago, such loans, which used to be known as second mortgages, were considered the borrowing of last resort, to be avoided by all but people in dire financial straits. Today, these loans have become universally accepted, their image transformed by ubiquitous ad campaigns from banks. 
Since the early 1980s, the value of home equity loans outstanding has ballooned to more than $1 trillion from $1 billion, and nearly a quarter of Americans with first mortgages have them. That explosive growth has been a boon for banks. Banks' returns on fixed-rate home equity loans and lines of credit, which are the most popular, are 25 percent to 50 percent higher than returns on consumer loans over all, with much of that premium coming from relatively high fees.
However, what has been a highly lucrative business for banks has become a disaster for many borrowers, who are falling behind on their payments at near record levels and could lose their homes.
The portion of people who have home equity lines more than 30 days past due stands 55 percent above its average since the American Bankers Association began tracking it around 1990; delinquencies on home equity loans are 45 percent higher. Hundreds of thousands are delinquent, owing banks more than $10 billion on these loans, often on top of their first mortgages.
None of this would have been possible without a conscious effort by lenders, who have spent billions of dollars in advertising to change the language of home loans and with it Americans' attitudes toward debt.
''Calling it a 'second mortgage,' that's like hocking your house,'' said Pei-Yuan Chia, a former vice chairman at Citicorp who oversaw the bank's consumer business in the 1980s and 1990s. ''But call it 'equity access,' and it sounds more innocent.''
Changing the Language
Many experts say the ads encouraged Americans to go deeper into debt.
''It's very difficult for one advertiser to come to you and change your perspective,'' said Sendhil Mullainathan, an economist at Harvard who has studied persuasion in financial advertising. ''But as it becomes socially acceptable for everyone to accumulate debt, everyone does.'' A spokesman for Citigroup said that the bank no longer runs the ''Live Richly'' campaign and that it no longer works with the advertising agency that created it.
Citi was far from alone with its simple but enticing ad slogans. Ads for banks and their home equity loans often portrayed borrowing against the roof over your head as an act of empowerment and entitlement. An ad in 2002 from Fleet, now a part of Bank of America, asked, ''Is your mortgage squeezing your wallet? Squeeze back.'' Another Fleet ad said: ''The smartest place to borrow? Your place.''
One in 2006 from PNC Bank pictured a wheelbarrow and the line, the ''easiest way to haul money out of your house.''
In 2003, one from Citigroup said a home could be ''the ticket'' to whatever ''your heart desires.'' It continued: ''You've put a lot of work into your home. Isn't it time for your home to return the favor?''
In 2004, Banco Popular said in its ''Make Dreams Happen'' ads: ''Need Cash? Use Your Home.''
''Seize your someday,'' a Wells Fargo ad advised in 2007.
It might seem hard to believe, but not long ago people borrowed money to buy a home with the expectation that they would eventually pay off the debt. A mortgage had a finish line. You mailed your check to the bank every month for 20 or 30 years, paying interest and principal, and bit by bit, at the end you owned your home free and clear.
The newly mortgage-free even used to throw mortgage-burning parties to celebrate their financial freedom. In 1975, Edith and Archie Bunker torched their mortgage on ''All in the Family.'' Two years later, the Walton family burned theirs on ''The Waltons.''
Now the idea of paying off the mortgage and owning a home outright is disappearing. One reason is that many people make smaller down payments on homes than they once did, so it takes longer to pay off their debt.
But another reason is that banks now enable homeowners to keep borrowing. In fact, they encourage it. Little by little, millions of Americans surrendered equity in their homes in recent years as home prices seemed to rise inexorably from one peak to the next.
As a result, the United States has become a nation of half-home owners. For the first time since World War II, the portion of home value that Americans own has fallen to less than 50 percent. In the 1980s, that figure was 70 percent.
Bankers defend home equity loans by saying they merely give customers what they want: Easy credit to buy things that they otherwise might not be able to afford. Advertising executives say society's attitudes about debt shaped the ads, not the other way around.
The phrase home equity loan has been around since at least the Depression, when it appeared in classified ads. But the transformation of the second mortgage into the home equity loan began in earnest in the 1970s and early 1980s.
That was when federal laws allowed mainstream banks to offer second mortgages as well as loans with interest-only, adjustable rates and so-called piggyback features combining first and second mortgages. Until then, such products were primarily marketed to lower-income customers by savings and loans and financing companies, like Beneficial and Household Finance.
Marketing executives knew that ''second mortgage'' had an unappealing ring. So they seized the idea of ''home equity,'' with its connotations of ownership and fairness. The phrase was also used for lines of credit, which are sometimes taken out by people who have already paid off their first mortgage.
But in the early 1980s, Americans were not very familiar with the concept of dipping into home equity. Charles Humm, the senior vice president for marketing and sales at Merrill Lynch Credit Corporation, had to go on a road show explaining the idea to potential customers.
He had to change the notion that only people in financial trouble took out a second mortgage, he recalls. Merrill wanted to sell second mortgages to consumers who did not need to borrow money urgently.
''The second mortgage category, then as probably now, suffered from a pretty bad reputation,'' he said. ''It generally tended to be a credit facility of last resort, and it was done by people in dire straits. That was not the audience we were after.''
The campaign worked. The amount of home equity loans outstanding grew from $1 billion in 1982 to $100 billion in 1988 -- in part because a portion of the loans were tax deductible, as the ads often pointed out.
A Bank of New York ad in 1986, for instance, told homeowners who exploited those tax advantages they were ''absolutely brilliant.''
An ad from CIT Financial, now struggling, said, ''You don't have to sell your home to get $10,000, $30,000 or even more in cash. You don't even have to walk out the door.''
Citibank's home equity ads portrayed housing as a revolving account similar to the plastic card in your wallet. One in the mid-'80s, for example, bragged: ''Now, when the value of your home goes up, you can take credit for it.'' Citigroup also used equity in its product name, calling the line an ''Equity Source Account.''
A Different Approach
Advertising historians look back at the '80s as the time when bank marketing came into its own. Citigroup led the way by hiring away advertising staff from packaged goods companies like General Mills and General Foods, where catchy ads were more common.
''Banking started using consumer advertising techniques more like a department store than like a bank,'' said Barbara Lippert, an advertising critic for the magazine Adweek. ''It was a real change in direction.''
Banks thought they were in safe territory. A Merrill Lynch executive, Thomas E. Capasse, told The New York Times in 1988 that home equity loans were safe because bankers believed that consumers would spend the money on wise investments and not ''pledge the house to buy a blouse.''
Mr. Capasse worked in the bank's division that was repackaging mortgage loans into bundles of loans to resell to investors, a practice that enabled lenders to make even more loans.
But other executives at Merrill were worried about the explosion of home equity lending. Mr. Humm, the marketing executive in Merrill's credit division, said he was concerned about ads from other banks that suggested using home equity loans for family vacations, new pools and shopping jaunts.
''We thought it was an inappropriate use,'' Mr. Humm said. ''We thought it would bring to the equity access category the same kind of reputation over time that had come to the second mortgage category.''
Marketing executives who pushed the easy money slogans of the 1980s and 1990s now say their good intentions went awry.
Mauro Appezzato used to run marketing at The Money Store, now defunct, the lender whose longtime television spokesman was Phil Rizzuto, the former Yankees shortstop and announcer. In 1993, Mr. Appezzato helped come up with the pitch line ''less than perfect credit,'' a phrase he said was meant to refer to people whose credit was only slightly problematic.
But by the late 1990s, the phrase was co-opted by subprime lenders like Countrywide Financial, Washington Mutual, New Century and Ameriquest.
Ameriquest ran an ad in 2004 during the Super Bowl, one of the biggest advertising events of the year, that has come to symbolize the excesses of subprime lending. The ad showed a woman on an airplane climbing over the man sitting next to her to reach the aisle. The plane's lights go off during turbulence and the woman slips, landing on the man's lap. Other passengers gasp because it looks as if they were in a sexual embrace.
''Don't Judge Too Quickly,'' the ad said. ''We Won't.'' Two and a half years later, Ameriquest went bankrupt.
Bank executives say that their customers wanted to borrow more money, and that desire is what drove changes in the marketplace. Consumers gave a resounding yes to offers of new credit, said Richard Kovacevich, the chairman of Wells Fargo, recalling questions he raised back in the 1980s when he oversaw retail banking at Citigroup.
''When you went to market research and asked people questions: would you like to have 24 by 7 access to your money? Would you like to have access to home mortgages and credit cards? Even if the product didn't exist as such, would you like a line of credit where you can just write a check anytime?'' Mr. Kovacevich said. ''There's no question, then, that that caused credit to enlarge.''
Still, Elizabeth Warren, a professor at Harvard Law School who has studied consumer debt and bankruptcy, said that financial companies used advertising to foster the idea that it is good, even smart, to borrow money.
''That 'unused home equity in your house? Put it to work for you.' '' Professor Warren said, mimicking the ads. ''Doesn't that sound financially sophisticated?'' Not to Professor Warren. ''Put it to work,'' she said, is just a euphemism for borrowing.
The Debt Trap: This series is examining the surge in consumer debt and the lenders who made it possible. Additional articles in the series are at nytimes.com/debt.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HAVE SOME MONEY: Advertising campaigns by banks transformed second mortgages, once considered the borrowing option of last resort for people in financial distress, into widely accepted home equity loans. Because of the fees charged to make these loans, banks drew much higher returns on them than from other offerings.(pg. C7) CHART: A Nation of Half-Home Owners: The portion of their homes that people own free and clear has declined for decades. A major downturn began in the late 1980s with the explosion of home equity loans. In 2007, equity dipped below 50 percent as real estate values plummeted.(Source: The Federal Reserve) Chart details line graph for EQUITY IN HOMES AS A SHARE OF REAL ESTATE VALUE and TOTAL MORTGAGE DEBT AS A SHARE OF REAL ESTATE VALUE. (pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME EQUITY LENDING (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); HOME EQUITY CREDIT LINES (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); SECOND MORTGAGES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (72%); HOME PRICES (69%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011



360 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: State Report Tallying Jobs Finds Glass Half Empty

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
The unemployment rates for New York City and the state declined in July, which seems like a positive development some government officials could try to take credit for. But Albany was a no-spin zone on Thursday.
 Instead of trumpeting the decline in joblessness, the report from the State Labor Department accentuated the negative. Indeed, briefly, it was bleaker than reality.
 The first version of the state's release was titled ''New York State Economy Loses Jobs for Fifth Straight Month.'' That headline was quickly corrected to say that the number of jobs in the state dropped in five of the last seven months -- but the dire tone persisted. 
 The report could have gone on to emphasize that the state gained jobs in the past year or that the city's unemployment rate, at 5 percent in July, was well below the national rate of 5.7 percent. Instead, the first comment attributed to Peter A. Neenan, director of the Labor Department's division of research and statistics, was that ''the rate of over-the-year private sector job growth in New York State continued to drop in July, and the state's unemployment rate increased from 4.7 percent to 5.2 percent over the past year.''
 Some close observers of the labor market and state government said they thought the glass-half-empty approach fit with the recent pronouncements of Gov. David A. Paterson, who has been warning of a severe recession. He has said the projected shortfall in the state budget will grow to $26.2 billion over three years.
 Frank Mauro, the executive director of the Fiscal Policy Institute, a left-leaning research group, said the Paterson administration's approach was wholly different from that of former Gov. George E. Pataki, for example. Mr. Pataki's chief economist, Stephen Kagann, was always ready to put a ''very positive'' spin on any measure of the state's economic performance, Mr. Mauro recalled.
 But, based on Thursday's jobs report and the other available data, Mr. Mauro said, ''the economy is not doing as badly as the governor's speeches would imply.'' He pointed to the weaker job markets in New Jersey and Pennsylvania as evidence that New York's economy has performed relatively well.
 Mr. Mauro said he hoped that the governor was not overstating the weakness in the economy to justify budget cuts that he wants the Legislature to accept.
 But Leo Rosales, a Labor Department spokesman who issued the press release, said there was no intention to look on the dark side. ''You cannot take these numbers and try to find a way to spin it to the positive because the economy is in a tough time right now,'' Mr. Rosales said. ''It's a reality that everyone's aware of. There's some change, but there isn't a drastic change to say that everything is O.K.. We have to state the facts.''
 The facts, according to the report, are that the city's unemployment rate fell to 5 percent from 5.4 percent in June and the state's jobless rate declined to 5.2 percent from 5.3 percent. Despite those apparent gains, the state lost 6,100 jobs from June to July, after adjustments for seasonal fluctuations. That was the fifth decline in employment from month to month this year, but the total loss has been just 20,200 jobs, or a fraction of 1 percent of the state's employment. 
 In the city, the number of jobs rose by 6,100 in July after falling in June, on a seasonally adjusted basis, said Barbara Byrne Denham, chief economist for Eastern Consolidated, a real estate services firm. Wall Street continued to shed jobs last month, but there was surprisingly strong hiring in construction and tourism-related businesses, she said.
 ''While the losses in securities clearly stand out and generally serve as a lead indicator for the New York City economy, the strong gains in tourism along with the modest gains elsewhere indicate that New York's economy is well diversified,'' Ms. Denham said. ''The losses on Wall Street will likely continue, but it is still not clear if or when these losses will spill over into other segments of the city's economy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); BUDGET CUTS (64%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008



361 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1663 words

HEADLINE: As Gas Prices Swell, Trailers Shrink

BYLINE: By DAVID HOWARD

 BODY:
BRIAN ENDTER'S 30-day road trip this summer from his home in Bend, Ore., to his native lands of the Midwest unfolded like an American greatest-hits tour: national park campgrounds, stops in the Tetons, a visit to Old Faithful. His 6- and 4-year-old sons were ecstatic when a buffalo wandered through their Yellowstone campsite, and they relaxed in his dad's cabin in northern Wisconsin. Good times. The funny thing was, the trip wouldn't have happened but for one thing: a new trailer/tent hybrid called the SylvanSport Go. 
 Mr. Endter, 41, a special-education teacher, had done the math: flights for his family of four and renting a car would have cost around $3,000, which seemed prohibitive. He didn't want a motor home. ''I don't want to sound like an elitist,'' he said, ''but I've never been interested in the hotel-room-on-wheels R.V. thing.'' And Mr. Endter didn't have a vehicle powerful enough to pull a full-sized pop-up camper. Then he read about the Go, released in stores in April, in an outdoors magazine. 
 By day, the Go is a gear-hauling utility trailer. At night, it opens into a hard-roofed tent that sleeps four. The willowy unit weighs only 800 pounds, meaning the Endters can tow it with their four-cylinder Honda CR-V. Their gas mileage dropped from 27 or 28 miles per gallon to 21 or 22 m.p.g., but that now seems like a small price to pay.
 Back in the glory days of guilt-free driving and dirt-cheap gas -- say, around 2004 -- motor home aficionados worshiped at the altar of size. Who cared if a 34-foot luxury R.V. got six miles to the gallon? Now, of course, things are different. A fill-up for a diesel-swilling movable McMansion might soon cross the $500 threshold. Credit is tight, the economy is concave, and motor home sales have tumbled each year since peaking in 2004; this year is shaping up to be the worst overall since 1992. Analysts are predicting that the R.V. industry has yet to hit bottom. But there is a ray of hope in the new wave of smaller motor homes and campers that can be towed by any car -- like the Go. If this trend were a movie it would be called ''Honey, I Shrunk the Camper.'' 
 ''There is absolutely a trend toward downsizing in the R.V. industry,'' said Craig R. Kennison, a consumer leisure industry analyst with Milwaukee-based Robert W. Baird & Company, a wealth management and private equity company. ''I don't think the lifestyle is going away, but I think people are pursuing it in a different way. And the companies that innovate to meet consumer demand best will be the survivors.''
 It should be noted that this concept of tiny, towable campers is not new. The Teardrop trailer, a 750-pound unit that stretched less then nine feet in length and featured a svelte, curving shape to match its name, has attracted a loyal following since its introduction back in the 1930s. Camp-Inn of Necedah, Wis.; Little Guy Worldwide of Canton, Ohio; and SoCal Teardrops of Ontario, Calif., still manufacture trailers based on the original designs today, as do a smattering of small custom builders. One of them, Jack Schonfeld of Pineville, La., also moderates a Web site called ''Teardrops and Tiny Travel Trailers,'' www.mikenchell.com/forums, on which aficionados share construction plans and advice.
 In the first half of 2008, the site's membership has nearly doubled, from 4,000 to 7,000 members, Mr. Schonfeld said in an e-mail message. ''The growth has been phenomenal this year,'' he wrote, ''and I attribute that to rising gas prices and folks wanting to downsize their camping activities.'' Two annual summer events for Teardrop enthusiasts -- in Northern California's redwood country and in Virginia -- are both sold out this year, with about 300 attendees coming to each from all over North America. Mr. Schonfeld anticipates that his own event, held outside Shreveport, La., in late October, will also sell out for the second consecutive year.
 A number of other firms are competing to build their own such ultralight brands. In 2006, Airstream introduced the BaseCamp, a lightweight tent-trailer hybrid feathery enough to be pulled by most any conventional vehicle. The trailer is at once throwback -- its design pays homage to the company's founder, Wally Byam -- and futuristic. With its swooping profile and wraparound smoked windows, it looks like an iPod on wheels. Airstream specifically marketed it to the ecology-minded outdoors set, billing it a ''toy trailer.''
 Dutchman Manufacturing, an R.V. maker, unveiled the T@B, a teardrop-styled lightweight trailer in 2003. The Sidekick and Hyper Lite are among other competitors in the towable-camper arena. The single-celled organism of the mobile-camper concept is the Sportz tent, which wraps around the cargo area of minivans, pickups and sports-utility vehicles -- transforming that space into a sleeping area or tent-accessible storage. The 10-by-10-foot tent can be fully converted into a stand-alone shelter outfitted with three mesh windows and two skylights. And because the vehicle is essentially an extension of the tent -- or vice versa, depending on your perspective -- campers can still plug in a DVD player on rainy nights. 
 THE new model, the Sportz SUV 83000, adds a fully detachable 7-foot-by-6-foot floorless room to the previous footprint. ''It's been a huge success so far,'' said Katie Gordon, marketing coordinator for the manufacturer, Napier Enterprises of Ontario. ''It's been very hard for us to keep it in stock.''
 The company has sold ''a couple thousand'' units since its February launch, for obvious reasons, she said. Because of fuel prices, ''people aren't going on airplanes, they aren't going long distances, but they still want to take a vacation, so they're doing more camping closer to home.'' Ms. Gordon said even traditional R.V. owners have bought them for close-to-home weekend use.
 A number of traditional R.V. manufacturers are taking notice of the trend, creating smaller, sleeker motor homes that cost less and travel lighter across the land. In 2006 Winnebago released the View, a 23-foot unit featuring a new lightweight chassis developed by Dodge that managed 16 to 19 miles per gallon. This year, Winnebago added the Era, which Mr. Kennison, the analyst, described as ''almost a souped-up soccer-mom minivan.'' Fleetwood followed suit this year with several smaller models, giving the movement a greater foothold. ''I would think R.V. makers will continue to find ways to improve fuel economy,'' said Kevin Broom, director of media relations for the Recreational Vehicle Industry Association. 
 But the View and its ilk still wouldn't interest the likes of Mr. Endter, an outdoor-loving owner of the SylvanSport Go who would stay home rather than buy an R.V. 
 In transport mode, the low-profile, high-capacity Go can carry up to 800 pounds of gear. It features 24 feet of waterproof storage; Mr. Endter stores the family's stuff in a half-dozen giant Rubbermaid bins. The Go accommodates his Thule rack, which carries their four bikes. And it features 13 inches of ground clearance and high-flotation tires, which enables off-road travel. (At home, the trailer can handle full sheets of plywood and other unwieldy home-improvement type supplies much like a full-size pickup.) 
 At the campground the Go shifts into camping mode, deploying a hard-roofed Kelty tent system that accommodates four. There are multiple sleeping configurations with custom self-inflating mattresses from Pacific Outdoor Equipment; the bed panels can be reconfigured as tables at mealtimes.
 The set-up is intuitive, and nearly any four-cylinder car or hybrid outfitted with a bumper hitch can pull it -- even Civics and Mini Coopers, said its creator, Thomas Dempsey of Cedar Mountain, N.C., president of SylvanSport. 
 The Go, with a suggested price of $7,995, offers a redemption of sorts for Mr. Dempsey, 44. Nearly 20 years ago, he designed a pop-up trailer for Coleman. But, he said, ''I was not an R.V. person. I was lucky to have a sleeping bag when I was out in the woods, so I never understood that R.V. mentality.'' It bothered Mr. Dempsey that the camper ''sat in the yard for 11 and a half months of the year and couldn't do anything but be a pop-up camper.''
 He later began a career as an entrepreneur, founding Liquidlogic Kayaks and eventually SylvanSport, in 2004. ''Making kayaks and being involved in the outdoor industry, I realized that outdoors people and R.V. people are different, and rarely did their paths cross,'' Mr. Dempsey said. With the Go, he set out to create another piece of outdoor gear. 
 SylvanSport introduced the product at the 2007 Outdoor Retailer show and is marketing the trailer primarily at outdoors stores such as L. L. Bean. Mr. Dempsey is perhaps the first such manufacturer to reject any association with the motor home business. ''The R.V. industry has not kept up with the times at all,'' Mr. Dempsey said. ''The traditional pop-up camper is similar to what it was when it was introduced 30 years ago. Today's young, active families -- the R.V. industry doesn't appeal to them.''
 Indeed, for others who have yet to innovate, times ahead could be tough. When Reticle Partners purchased Columbia Northwest last year, the new owners opted for only a light revision of the Aliner line of lightweight campers, created in the 1980s. The T.R.E. line (an acronym for Travel, Rumble, Explore), introduced in January, offered just a few cosmetic alterations to the Cabin A series. The smallest of the bunch, the Amelia, is one of the few ultralight campers with a bathroom, but it still weighs in at 1,850 pounds, more than twice the weight of the Go. 
 Melanie Spires, Columbia Northwest's marketing and sales coordinator, essentially conceded that the T.R.E. has yet to catch fire with consumers. ''A majority of people are waiting to see where the market's headed,'' she said. ''They know the economy's tough, and they're protective of the dollars they do have.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: POP-UP CULTURE: The Endter family and their Go trailer.(PHOTOGRAPH BY WOODS WHEATCROFT)
PULL: Brian Endter's four-cylinder Honda pulls his SylvanSport Go (weight: 800 pounds) in Glacier National Park. Once there, he and his family unloaded their gear, popped up the tent and set up camp.
T@B: This ''microlite'' trailer designed in the Teardrop style was introduced in 2003.
AIRTSTREAM BASECAMP: This is marketed to the ecology-minded outdoors set as a ''toy trailer.''
SPORTZ TRUCK TENT: It transforms a truck's cargo area into a 10-by-10-foot tent.
ALINER: This pop-up camper, made by Columbia Northwest, is 15 feet long.
WINNEBAGO VIEW: R.V.'s have also shrunk. This one, with lightweight chassis, is 23 feet long.
 TEARDROP: The classic, a small camper introduced in the 30s, is still manufactured.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY WOODS WHEATCROFT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. F8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPING (90%); RV PARKS & CAMPGROUNDS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (88%); TRENDS (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); NATIONAL PARKS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); PRIVATE EQUITY (50%)

COMPANY: ROBERT W BAIRD & CO INC (60%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (77%); BEND, OR, USA (73%) WISCONSIN, USA (93%); OREGON, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008



362 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 2344 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
AROUND TOWN
 SUMMER ON THE HUDSON
 For those of us who've paid little attention to the redevelopment of the Far West Side, Riverside Park South, the well-tended space beneath the West Side Highway near 70th Street, is often overshadowed by its far more developed counterparts. Conceived as a peace offering of sorts by the real-estate titans who created the shimmering residential buildings overhead, it opened seven years ago but has had one unveiling or another ever since. To accompany its physical expansion -- the space is now 14 acres, two-thirds of its eventual size -- the Parks Department has put together an ever-expanding lineup of events. 
 ''The whole series is called Summer on the Hudson -- you can summer on the Hudson,'' explained Robin Schatell, the park's director of programming. ''We say, 'Why go upstate when you can have it here?' '' 
 This weekend's crowded roster includes a D.J. set on Friday night by GlobeSonic Sound System and kayaking on Saturday and Sunday. But the real respite from city living comes on Sunday, with the Acoustic Sundays concert series. Using the sunset over the Hudson as a backdrop, performers on Pier I drown out the white noise that comes from traffic overhead. (Above, a band performing there last year.) Visitors should discard the breathy Iron & Wine connotation that the word acoustic brings to mind. Last Sunday a jazz-inflected set by Kate McGarry featured a quartet including an electric guitar. And this week the soul singer K. J. Denhert promises to be anything but tame. 
 The true star, of course, is the sweeping view from the pier, which juts out 715 feet into the river. With the park's pedestrian path set to connect to Hudson River Park to the south next week, something tells me that this park won't remain a best-kept secret for long. (GlobeSonic Sound System, Friday from 7 to 11 p.m.; kayaking, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Saturday and Sunday; K. J. Denhert, Sunday at 7 p.m.; Riverside Park South at Pier I, 70th Street at the Hudson River, 212-408-0219, nycgovparks.org; free.) 
 MONICA DRAKE
 Museums and Sites
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street. Saturday at 2 p.m., a performance of music from the Dominican Republic and Haiti by the group Pa'Lo Monte. Through Nov. 4, ''Campaigning for President: New York and the American Election,'' an exhibition of campaign memorabilia, including buttons, banners, posters and clothing; the display is from the collection of Jordan M. Wright, who died on May 11 and was its guest curator. Through Dec. 31, ''Catholics in New York, 1808-1946,'' an exhibition of 400 secular and religious items. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. Suggested admission: $9; $5 for students and 62+; free for children under 12 and for everyone on Sundays, 10 a.m. to noon; $20 for families. Through Nov. 2, admission is free for those with a paid receipt from a visit to the New-York Historical Society.
 NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street. Through Sunday, ''Woven Splendor From Timbuktu to Tibet: Exotic Rugs and Textiles From New York Collectors,'' and ''Allure of the East: Orientalism in New York, 1850-1930.'' Through Nov. 2, ''Plague in Gotham!: Cholera in Nineteenth-Century New York,'' an exhibition examining the epidemic in New York beginning in 1832, featuring illustrated maps, portraits and displays of remedies. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; to 8 p.m. on Fridays; Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org. $10; $7 for educators and 65+; $6 for students; free from 6 to 8 p.m. on Fridays; free at all times for members and children under 12. Through Nov. 2, admission is free for those with a paid receipt from a visit to the Museum of the City of New York.
 NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS, 111 Amsterdam Avenue, at 65th Street, Lincoln Center. Through Oct. 31, ''Take Me Out to the Ball Game: 100 Years of Music, Musicians, and the National Pastime,'' an exhibition of slides, photographs, sheet music and recordings that focus on the game's influence on composers like Irving Berlin, Charles Ives, William Schuman and George M. Cohan. Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Mondays and Thursdays, noon to 8 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. (212) 870-1630, nypl.org. Free. 
 NEW YORK TRANSIT MUSEUM Boerum Place and Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn Heights. Through Dec. 7, ''Tools of the Trade,'' an exhibition of 50 items that have been used to build and maintain the city's transportation system since the 1880s; included are an anemometer (wind gauge), a pneumatic drill and signal locks. Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. (718) 694-1600. $5; $3 for ages 3 to 17 and 62+; free for members and children under 3 every day, and for 62+ on Wednesdays. At the Gallery Annex, Grand Central Terminal, next to the stationmaster's office, on view through Nov. 2, ''What's New?'' a display of items recently added to the museum's collection that includes a World War II air raid siren from an elevated subway station. Mondays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. (212) 878-0106. Free.
 THE PALEY CENTER FOR MEDIA, 25 West 52nd Street, Manhattan. Through Sept. 7, a display of artwork inspired by the television series ''Family Guy,'' with simultaneous screenings of episodes from the show. Tuesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. (until 8 p.m. on Thursdays). (212) 621-6600; paleycenter.org. $10; $8 for students and 62+; $5 for children under 14. 
 Events
 EAST 55TH STREET CONSERVATIVE SYNAGOGUE STREET FAIR, Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on Lexington Avenue, from 42nd to 57th Streets. 
 HARLEM WEEK Daylong outdoor cultural activities continue on Saturday and Sunday along West 135th Street, from St. Nicholas Avenue to Fifth Avenue, with an international fair with crafts and food, dance performances, music and film screenings. There will also be a health fair and a car show on Sunday. harlemweek.com. 
 INDIAN PARADE AND FESTIVAL, Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on Madison Avenue, from 23rd to 41st Streets. 
 MOVIES UNDER THE STARS, Pier 1, Riverside Park South, at 70th Street. Wednesday at 8:30 p.m., ''All the President's Men'' (1976). Part of Summer on the Hudson, nycparks.org. Free.
 MOVIES WITH A VIEW, Empire-Fulton Ferry State Park, reachable from Main and Plymouth Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn. A free film screening series on Thursdays. This Thursday, ''Being There'' (1979), by Hal Ashby, with Peter Sellers; also the short animated film ''John and Karen'' (2007), by Matthew Walker. brooklynbridgepark.org. 
 NEW YORKERS FOR NEW YORK CITY, a benefit sightseeing cruise on the Circle Line, Wednesdays through Aug. 27. Boarding is at 6:15 p.m. at Pier 83, 42nd Street and the West Side Highway; the boat sails at 6:45 p.m. $27; includes music, a beverage and a $5 donation to the Food Bank for New York City. (212) 563-3200; circleline42.com.
 OUTDOOR CINEMA AT SOCRATES SCULPTURE GARDEN, 32-01 Vernon Boulevard, at Broadway, Long Island City, Queens. Wednesday at 7 p.m., ''Duck Season'' (Mexico, 2006), by Fernando Eimbcke, with music by Bachelor Sound Machin. (718) 956-1819, socratessculpturepark.org. Free.
 PASSPORT FRIDAYS 2008, Queens Museum of Art, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park. A free outdoor series of international music, dance and film continues this Friday from 6:30 to 10:30 p.m. with Singh & Dance, music by D.J. Rehka and a screening of the 2006 film ''The Namesake''; rain location, inside the museum. The museum galleries and cafe will also be open until 8 p.m. (718) 592-9700.
 SIXTH CENTRAL PARK FILM FESTIVAL, Rumsey Playfield, midpark at 70th Street. Tuesday at 8 p.m., ''Working Girl'' (1988), with Melanie Griffith; gates open at 6 p.m. Sponsored by the Central Park Conservancy. centralparknyc.org. Free. 
 STONEWALL DEMOCRATIC CLUB STREET FAIR, Saturday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on Waverly Place, from Broadway to Fifth Avenue, Greenwich Village. 
 SUMMER STREETS For the next two Saturdays, from 7 a.m. to 1 p.m., a car-free route for bicycling, playing or just walking is planned in Manhattan, starting at its southern tip, running north along Lafayette Street to Fourth Avenue, to Park Avenue, to 72nd Street and west to Central Park; connections will be available to Harlem and the West Side. There will also be instruction in bicycle riding on East 55th Street, as well as fitness classes along the route. Bicycle rides to the area, escorted by Transportation Alternatives, will be available from neighborhoods in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx. nyc.gov/summerstreets. 
 ROCKEFELLER CENTER FARMERS MARKET, 50th Street, between Fifth Avenue and Avenue of the Americas. Wednesdays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., through Aug. 29. (212) 332-6868.
 SUMMER IN THE SQUARE Free entertainment concludes this Thursday in Union Square Park, with a 12:30 p.m. performance of children's theater by Daryl Roth Theaters, followed by a yoga class at 3 p.m. and Latin music by Sonido Isleno at 5:30 p.m. unionsquarenyc.org.
 SUMMER SEAPORT FESTIVAL, Saturday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on Water Street, from Fulton to Broad Streets, Lower Manhattan. 
 THEATER FOR THE NEW CITY STREET THEATER presents ''It's the Economy, Stupid! or the Turning Point'' on Saturday at St. Mary's Park, 147th Street and St. Ann's Avenue, Mott Haven, the Bronx, and on Sunday, at the Central Park Bandshell, reachable from 72nd Street. Both are at 2 p.m. (212) 254-1109. Free.
 2008 SUMMER IN LITTLE ITALY FESTIVAL, Mulberry and Hester Streets. Saturday at 3 p.m., a performance of Italian folk songs and operatic arias by the soprano Cristina Fontanelli. littleitalynyconline.org; (212) 302-0551. Free.
 ST. CECILE SCHOLARSHIP FUND STREET FAIR, Saturday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on Avenue of the Americas, from 14th to 23rd Streets.
 URBAN PARK RANGERS Saturday at 11 a.m., a hike on the Cass Gallagher Trail in Van Cortlandt Park, meeting at Mosholu Avenue and Broadway, the Bronx. Also Saturday at 1 p.m., ''A Walk Back in Time: Fort Totten,'' meeting at Fort Totten Park, 212th Street and the Cross Island Parkway, Queens. nyc.gov/parks/rangers. Free. 
 VILLAGE COMMUNITY FOR JEFFERSON MARKET STREET FAIR, Saturday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m., on Greenwich Avenue, between Avenue of the Americas and Seventh Avenue, Greenwich Village. 
 Spoken Word
 ENVIRONMENTAL POETRY NIGHT, Sunday at 6 p.m., Inwood Hill Park, Nature Center, West 218th Street and Indian Road. Open-mic readings. nycgovparks.org. (212) 304-2365.
 Walking Tours
 BIG ONION WALKING TOURS Saturday at 11 a.m., ''The Bowery,'' meeting at the black cube at Astor Place, East Village. (212) 439-1090. $15; $12 for 63+, students and New-York Historical Society members. 
 CENTER FOR THE URBAN ENVIRONMENT Sunday at 1 p.m., ''Scandals, Scalawags and Murder Most Foul'' visits graves of the notorious in Green-Wood Cemetery, meeting in Brooklyn at the cemetery entrance at 25th Street and Fifth Avenue, Sunset Park. (718) 788-8500, Ext. 208. $13; $10 for members; $8 for 62+ and students. 
 CENTRAL PARK CONSERVANCY Weekend tours of Central Park. Saturday and Sunday at noon, ''Seneca Village'' covers one of the earliest communities of black property owners, meeting at the southeast corner of Central Park West and 85th Street. centralparknyc.org. Free. 
 I'LL TAKE MANHATTAN TOURS Sunday at 1 p.m., ''The Harlem Renaissance & Beyond,'' meeting on the northwest corner of 135th Street and Malcolm X Boulevard, Hamilton Heights. (732) 270-5559. $15. 
 IN-DEPTH WALKING TOURS Saturday and Sunday at 11 a.m., ''Newspaper Row'' covers the newspaper district of 1900s New York, meeting on the southeast corner of Broadway and Fulton Street, Lower Manhattan. (917) 607-9019. $20.
 LINCOLN SQUARE: GATEWAY TO THE UPPER WEST SIDE, the first and third Sunday of every month through October, at 2 p.m., tours of this Manhattan neighborhood, meeting on the southwest corner of Broadway and 60th Street. Sponsored by the Lincoln Square Business Improvement District. (212) 581-3774. Free.
 MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY Sunday at 4 p.m., ''Cool Green Edge: Jerome Park Reservoir,'' a Bronx tour that includes stops at the Kingsbridge Armory and Lehman College, meeting in front of the Armory at the northwest corner of Kingsbridge Road and Jerome Avenue. (212) 439-1049, mas.org. $15; $12 for members.
 NEW YORK TALKS AND WALKS Saturday at 7 p.m., ''Summer Nights, Lights and Delights: Twilight Walk of the Brooklyn Bridge Waterfalls,'' meeting outside Starbucks, 38 Park Row, Lower Manhattan. (888) 377-4455; $20, cash; $15, credit card. 
 NYC DISCOVERY TOURS Saturday and Sunday at 2 p.m., ''Brooklyn Heights/Cobble Hill History and Tasting Tour.'' Reservations and meeting place: (212) 465-3331. $21, including food. 
 PARK SLOPE NEIGHBORHOOD WALK PART II, a Brooklyn tour that includes visits to the Soldiers and Sailors Monument and a mansion, meeting Sunday at 10 a.m. at the Grand Army Arch. (718) 421-2021; nycgovparks.org. Free. 
 PHOTO WALK-ABOUTS, tours of several Manhattan locations with instruction in photography. Friday at 2 p.m., Central Park, meeting near the General Sherman Statue, 59th Street and Fifth Avenue. Saturday at 10 a.m., Greenwich Village, meeting at Father Demo Square, Avenue of the Americas at Bleecker Street; Saturdays at 2 p.m., the Financial District, meeting at Trinity Church, Broadway and Wall Street, Lower Manhattan. (917) 557-3693; photowalkabouts.com. Each, $20 (cash only). 
 SHOREWALKERS Sunday at 10:45 a.m., ''Rockaway Park Beach Hike and Swim,'' a walk along the boardwalk with time for a swim, meeting at the Rockaway Park-Beach 116th Street stop on the S train; (201) 332-1709. 
 STREET SMARTS N.Y. Saturday at 2 p.m., a tour of the East Village, meeting at the IRT subway kiosk in Astor Place. (212) 969-8262. $10. 
 WALL STREET HISTORY is the subject of a tour on Sunday at 1 p.m., meeting at 57 Wall Street, near William Street, Lower Manhattan. Sponsored by 1792 Wall Street Walks. (212) 666-0175; 1792wallstreetwalks.com. $20.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (86%); EXHIBITIONS (84%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CITIES (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); JAZZ & BLUES (71%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (71%); MUSIC (71%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (70%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (66%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); RELIGION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); HAITI (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008



363 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Banking Scandal Unfolds Like a Thriller

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
In 2004, Heinrich Kieber told a Viennese criminal psychologist that he no longer held the keys to the kingdom of Liechtenstein, one of the world's leading purveyors of a shadowy private banking services to the wealthy.
 But Mr. Kieber's promise -- that he had returned all of the confidential client data he had stolen in 2002 from LGT Group, the financial fortress owned by the Liechtenstein royal family -- was not true. 
 ''At the time, we all trusted him,'' said Wolfgang Mueller, his lawyer in Vaduz, the capital of Liechtenstein, at the time, whose fees were paid by a worried LGT. ''But he made a copy.'' 
 Mr. Kieber, who is in hiding after selling copies to several foreign governments, is now wanted by Interpol. A former data entry clerk at LGT, he has spawned one of the biggest private banking scandals in years. 
 Nearly a dozen global tax authorities, including the Internal Revenue Service, are now using the treasure trove to ramp up their scrutiny of former LGT clients.
 But the Kieber affair is not just peeling back layers of banking secrecy and exposing a tiny Alpine country blacklisted by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development as a money-laundering haven. 
 It has also brought to light a group of characters worthy of a spy thriller. 
 The widening investigations threaten to bring to light more LGT client names, including those of convicted felons and foreign officials, as well as the roles of other banks and their United States-based employees, according to a person briefed on the matter.
 Mr. Kieber's treasure trove, which he sold secretly to authorities in Germany, Britain and the United States, details billions of dollars in tax evasion by 1,400 LGT clients, 150 of them American, according to officials who have seen the documents.
 ''He's hunted, he's wanted -- this is not what I would call living the good life,'' said Jack A. Blum, Mr. Kieber's lawyer.
 Mr. Blum said he ''has no idea'' where Mr. Kieber was or what country had put him in what he said was a witness protection program. ''I know when I should dial down and not ask,'' Mr. Blum said.
 His client, Mr. Blum said, ''is not a criminal. He was bothered by what he saw at the bank.'' 
 Mr. Blum declined to say how Mr. Kieber had come to him as a client, adding that Mr. Kieber hoped to reap a monetary reward under the I.R.S.'s new whistle-blower program. He said all communication with Mr. Kieber was ''being blocked by the government,'' though he declined to say which one.
 All that baffles Robert Wallner, the chief prosecutor in Liechtenstein, who said he was ''somewhat puzzled that he is now considered a whistle-blower.'' 
 In spy-thriller fashion, Mr. Kieber's data theft was linked to a Spanish real estate deal gone awry.
 Mr. Wallner said his office charged Mr. Kieber in November 2002 with fraud after he bought an apartment in Barcelona in 1996 owned by a German business executive and paid for it with a check for the equivalent of about $250,000 that bounced.
 That same year, Mr. Wallner said, Mr. Kieber told him ''a dramatic story'' in which he met what Mr. Wallner called the unnamed ''German victims of the Spanish fraud'' -- referring to the bounced check -- at a ranch in Argentina. Mr. Kieber complained that the Germans had held him captive and tortured him.
 While Mr. Wallner said his office believed that Mr. Kieber had indeed met some Germans in Argentina, it could not determine whether the allegations of mistreatment were true.
 Mr. Kieber was upset that the authorities did not believe his story. In January 2003, Mr. Wallner said, Mr. Kieber sent a four-page blackmail letter and audio cassette to Hans-Adam II, the ruling monarch of Liechtenstein, and his son, Crown Prince Alois, complaining of unjust prosecution over the Spanish deal. 
 In the letter, Mr. Kieber revealed for the first time that he had copies of LGT client data, and threatened to make them public unless Liechtenstein gave him new passports and a new identity, and dropped the Spanish fraud charges. The prosecutor refused, and indicted Mr. Kieber on data theft charges in February. 
 ''Is he motivated by revenge?'' Mr. Blum wondered. ''Possibly, but I don't want to psychologize.''
 Mr. Kieber's data trove has already claimed several victims. Last month, the investigation by United States authorities exposed a top LGT client, Peter Lowy, a billionaire Australian real estate magnate on suspected tax evasion. In February, German tax authorities used Mr. Kieber's data to raid the home of Klaus Zumwinkel, a corporate pillar who is the former chief of Germany's postal system. 
 In recent months, Mr. Kieber made a videotape, face darkened, for investigators for a United States Senate subcommittee. He described LGT's inner workings and hinted of other global clients, including an unnamed ''head of a social government department'' in ''a third world country'' with $5 million in income from unexplained sources. 
 But a spokesman for LGT said of Mr. Kieber that ''no matter how you slice it, he's a thief.'' Referring to the whistle-blower in the Enron case, he added, ''We're not talking about a Sherron Watkins here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Heinrich Kieber and, at top, a view of Vaduz, Liechtenstein, the suspected tax haven, taken last winter.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LIECHTENSTEIN POLICE, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARNO BALZARINI/KEYSTONE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); PRIVATE BANKING (90%); SCANDALS (90%); TAX FRAUD (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); TAX LAW (88%); TAX AUTHORITIES (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LARCENY & THEFT (78%); FELONIES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); LAWYERS (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (78%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (73%); MONEY LAUNDERING (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); WITNESSES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL POLICE ORGANIZATION (INTERPOL) (56%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LIECHTENSTEIN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); GERMANY (68%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008



364 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: Economy in Europe Contracted in Second Quarter

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
The European economy, long resistant to the turmoil in the financial markets and in the United States, contracted in the second quarter, according to reports released on Thursday. 
 Gross domestic product in the 15-nation euro area declined 0.2 percent in the April-June period compared with the first quarter, the data showed, an expected but nonetheless pronounced slowdown under the pressure of slower global growth and higher food and energy prices. It was the first time since the creation of the euro currency in 1995 that quarterly growth declined in the bloc as a whole. 
 News from individual European countries was equally downbeat, showing that output in Germany had contracted 0.5 percent in the latest quarter. Economists anticipated the decline because Germany's 1.2 percent growth in the first quarter had been powered by technical factors and brisk construction activity that would not be repeated. 
 The French economy, the second-largest in the euro zone, posted a surprising 0.3 percent decline. 
 ''We can probably scrape by and avoid another negative quarter,'' said Julian Callow, chief Europe economist at Barclays Capital. ''But we are in for stagnation here.'' 
 The euro zone's poor showing came a day after Japan reported that its G.D.P. fell 0.6 percent in the latest quarter from the previous three months. Second-quarter growth held up better in the United States, rising 0.5 percent from the first, partly because of the billions of dollars of government stimulus checks that were mailed to taxpayers. But economists say it may not be possible to avoid a global slowdown. 
 No Group of 7 economy has yet been shown to be in recession, at least by the common definition of two consecutive quarters of contraction.
 Mervyn King, the Bank of England governor, warned Wednesday of a ''chill in the economic air,'' as he raised his forecast for inflation and reduced his forecast for growth. In addition to higher inflation and the tight credit market, Britain has been hurt by a serious housing slump. 
 Peter Newland, an economist at Lehman Brothers in London, said the British economy would probably decline 0.1 percent in the third quarter after a weak 0.2 percent increase in the second quarter. He said the British authorities now expected growth this year to be ''flat,'' compared with their previous forecast for growth of about 1 percent. 
 The European Central Bank, mindful that the euro area was still in the grip of strong inflationary pressure because of food and energy costs, had warned against overreacting to the second quarter figures. It said that it would ''look through'' the quarterly volatility to ascertain the broader trends in the regional economy. 
 Indeed, in the full year ending in June, the euro-zone economy expanded by 1.5 percent, a solid enough figure by European standards. 
 Europe's central bank raised its main interest rate target by a quarter point in July, to 4.25 percent, to combat expectations of rising inflation, and it has held out the possibility it might do so again, despite slowing growth. 
 However, once-resilient Germany, the locomotive of the Continent, is now buckling under the same strains that are already threatening countries including Spain and Britain with recession. 
 The Spanish economy eked out 0.1 percent growth in the second quarter, its slowest rate since a deep recession after the 1992 Barcelona Olympics. A collapse in construction and real estate, combined with higher interest rates and expensive energy, is rapidly draining purchasing power in Spain, and most economists expect a recession this year. 
 Spain's dramatic weakening has not surprised most economists, but the same could not be said about a downturn French growth. The decline in France was the clearest sign yet that consumers, long the bright spot in that economy, are less and less willing to spend. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); INFLATION (89%); CURRENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); TRENDS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); EURO (77%); FOOD PRICES (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); CONSTRUCTION (73%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (61%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (55%); BANK OF ENGLAND (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (74%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008



365 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1972 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
MOVIES
 Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.
 'AMERICAN TEEN' (PG-13, 1:35) Five high school seniors from Warsaw, Ind., share their lives with the cameras in Nanette Burstein's fascinating, slightly fishy documentary, which prefers teen-movie conventions and stereotypes to real social insight. (A. O. Scott) 
 'BEAUTIFUL LOSERS' (No rating, 1:30) This fawning, self-serving documentary is directed by Aaron Rose, features Aaron Rose and is concerned with a group of middling, quasi-countercultural artists affiliated with a gallery founded by -- guess who? -- Aaron Rose. (Nathan Lee)
 'BOY A' (No rating, 1:40) Andrew Garfield's wrenching portrayal of an ingenuous 24-year-old man belatedly starting an adult life under a new name after serving 14 years in a juvenile prison for a heinous crime addresses complicated issues of character and social attitudes in a punitive society. (Stephen Holden) 'BRIDESHEAD REVISITED' (PG-13, 2:00) Pointless and pretty, this revisiting of Evelyn Waugh's reactionary valentine to interwar Britain gets nearly everything wrong but the costumes. (Scott) 
 'THE DARK KNIGHT' (PG-13, 2:32) Pitched at the divide between poetry and entertainment, Christopher Nolan's follow-up to ''Batman Begins'' goes darker and deeper than any Hollywood movie of its comic-book kind. With Christian Bale as the big bat and a spellbinding Heath Ledger as the smiler with the knives.
 (Manohla Dargis)
 'DAYS AND CLOUDS' (No rating, 1:55, in Italian) Silvio Soldini's sad, grown-up film about a long-married couple in crisis suggests that Italy's middle class is as much under siege as that of the United States. In both countries, it appears, job security isn't what it used to be, and corporate downsizing is plunging more and more affluent families into abrupt financial tailspins. (Holden)
 'ELEGY' (R, 1:48) Ben Kingsley and a radiant Penelope Cruz star in Isabel Coixet's polite take on Philip Roth's insistently impolite short novel ''The Dying Animal.'' (Dargis)
 'ENCOUNTERS AT THE END OF THE WORLD' (G, 1:39) In this new documentary, that professional madman and restlessly curious filmmaker Werner Herzog travels to the blinding white of the Antarctic, where he meets melancholic scientists, brooding journeymen and various poets of the soul, along with all manner of otherworldly furry and floating creatures. (Dargis) 'FROZEN RIVER' (R, 1:37) Venturing deep into the trenches where hard-working Americans struggle to put food on the table, Courtney Hunt's powerful, somber film evokes a perfect storm of present-day economic and social woes. Playing an impoverished mother of two who smuggles illegal aliens across the Canadian border, Melissa Leo gives an awards-worthy performance. 
 (Holden)
 'GONZO: THE LIFE AND WORK OF DR. HUNTER S. THOMPSON' (R, 1:58) Alex Gibney's documentary is a thorough and fascinating illumination of its subject, the journalistic iconoclast who died in 2005. (Scott)
 'HANCOCK' (PG-13, 1:32) Will Smith stars in this unexpectedly satisfying and kinky addition to Hollywood's superhero chronicles. Peter Berg directs, and Charlize Theron provides the tastiest surprises. (Dargis) 
 'HELLBOY: THE GOLDEN ARMY' (PG-13, 1:50) Guillermo del Toro, returning to the Hellboy franchise after ''Pan's Labyrinth,'' indulges his knack for conjuring weird and memorable creatures of every shape, size and temperament. Abundance trumps coherence, and this movie, with Ron Pelman as the grouchy red hero and Selma Blair as his fiery lover, is a bit of a mess. But it can also be a lot of fun. (Scott) 
 'IN SEARCH OF A MIDNIGHT KISS' (No rating, 1:38) Lightly sweetened and just a touch bitter, Alex Holdridge's romantic comedy about two Los Angeles souls (Scoot McNairy and Sara Simmonds) who hook up on Craigslist (''Misanthrope seeks misanthrope'') treads familiar if appealing ground. (Dargis)
 'THE LAST MISTRESS' (No rating, 1:54, in French) An enthralling, often raw inquiry into cursed desire from the French writer and director Catherine Breillat, based on a 19th-century novel by Jules Barbey d'Aurevilly. A mesmerizing Asia Argento plays the mercurial courtesan who won't say no, and the luscious newcomer Fu'ad Ait Aattou plays the noble libertine who can't. (Dargis)
 'MAMMA MIA!' (PG-13, 1:48) Adapted from the stage musical and featuring a cast of super troupers belting out Abba hits, this movie is hard not to enjoy, which doesn't mean it's any good. (Scott) 
 'MAN ON WIRE' (PG-13, 1:34) Philippe Petit's 1974 tightrope walk between the towers of the World Trade Center might have seemed, at the time, like a crazy stunt, but James Marsh's beautiful documentary understands it as a work of art. (Scott)
 'THE MUMMY: TOMB OF THE DRAGON EMPEROR' (PG-13, 1:53) The third and weakest installment of the ''Mummy'' franchise is an expensive but incoherent mess. (Holden) 
 'PATTI SMITH: DREAM OF LIFE' (No rating, 1:49) You may not learn everything you want to know about this punk godhead in Steven Sebring's impressionistic portrait -- a lovely, drifty first feature that feels less like a documentary and more like an act of rapturous devotion -- but you learn just about everything you need. (Dargis)
 'PINEAPPLE EXPRESS' (R, 1:51) In the tradition of Cheech & Chong, Abbott and Costello, Hope and Crosby, Ricky and Lucy, Martin and Lewis, Rowan and Martin, Spicoli and Hand, Riggs and Murtaugh, dumb and dumber, right brain and left, peanut butter and jelly, bong hit and roach clip comes a stoner comedy that partakes of a gentle indie vibe before hitting the hard stuff. David Gordon Green directs; Seth Rogen and James Franco star. (Dargis)
 'THE SISTERHOOD OF THE TRAVELING PANTS 2' (PG-13, 1:57) In this rambling sequel to a 2005 hit, four friends, now entering college, are symbolic cheerleaders for personal loyalty and wholesome living; the movie is an upbeat alternative to ''The Hills'' and its ilk. (Holden)
 'SIXTY SIX' (PG-13, 1:33) In this dolorous British comedy a 12-year-old boy sees his dreams of an elaborate bar mitzvah jeopardized by England's triumphant march toward the 1966 World Cup Final. Leaning heavily, if inoffensively, on ethnic stereotypes, the movie charts a sentimental struggle toward manhood with period-appropriate charm. 
 (Jeannette Catsoulis)
 'SPACE CHIMPS' (G, 1:21) A pretty good G-rated story about chimps in outer space, with a lot of droll grown-up jokes slipped in. The animated leads are cute, and the voice actors, among them Andy Samberg, Cheryl Hines and Patrick Warburton, are in top form. (Neil Genzlinger) 
 'STEP BROTHERS' (R, 1:33) Yet another Judd Apatow factory production pegged to the spectacle and pathos of the sexually stunted, immature male. Will Ferrell and John C. Reilly star, and Adam McKay directs. (Dargis) 
 'SWING VOTE' (PG-13, 2:00) A pleasant muddle about life, liberty and the pursuit of Budweiser starring Kevin Costner as a good ole drunk whose vote will decide the next presidential election. Directed by the relative newcomer Joshua Michael Stern, the film has a Red State setup and a serious case of the blues. (Dargis) 'TELL NO ONE' (No rating, 2:05, in French) In the shortcut language of a movie pitch, Guillaume Canet's delicious contemporary thriller is ''Vertigo'' meets ''The Fugitive'' by way of ''The Big Sleep.'' This French adaptation of Harlan Coben's 2001 best seller is the kind of conspiracy-minded mystery almost no one seems capable of creating anymore, except David Lynch in his surreal way. Beautifully written and acted, it is a labyrinth in which to get deliriously lost. (Holden) 
 'TRANSSIBERIAN' (R, 1:50) This handsomely remodeled variation on a cherished genre you might call the mystery-train movie skillfully manipulates familiar tropes: innocents abroad; ominous, glowering foreigners; conspiracy and duplicity; erotic intrigue. Until it fizzles in an anticlimactic train crash, it is extremely entertaining. (Holden)
 'TROPIC THUNDER' (R, 1:47) A flashy, nasty, on-and-off funny and assaultive sendup of the film industry, directed by Ben Stiller, who stars alongside Robert Downey Jr. (in blackface) and Jack Black (in itty-bitty bikini underwear). (Dargis) 
 'WALL-E' (G, 1:37) The latest Pixar movie is many things: a silent comedy, a robot love story, a cautionary science fiction parable. Also a masterpiece. (Scott)
 'WHAT WE DO IS SECRET' (R, 1:32) This adoring biopic of Darby Crash (played by Shane West), the punk-rock flame-out and front man of the Los Angeles band the Germs, focuses on the five years between his banishment from high school and his heroin-assisted suicide in 1980. Exposing an intellect wholly focused on premeditated extinction, Mr. West succeeds in conveying the intelligence behind the desperation. (Catsoulis)
 'X-FILES: I WANT TO BELIEVE' (PG-13, 1:44) David Duchovny, Gillian Anderson and Chris Carter re-enter the twilight zone in this baggy, draggy, oddly timed and strangely off-the-mark follow-up to the show's superior first big-screen incarnation. (Dargis)
 Film Series
 LINDSAY ANDERSON: REVOLUTIONARY ROMANTIC (Friday through Thursday) Malcolm McDowell and Mike Kaplan will introduce Friday's 6:15 p.m. screening of ''Never Apologize,'' their documentary portrait of this influential British filmmaker, who was one of the leaders of the social realist, ''kitchen sink'' school of the '60s , as well as Mr. McDowell's director in the celebrated ''Mick Travis'' cycle: ''If ...'' (1968), ''O Lucky Man!'' (1973) and ''Britannia Hospital'' (1982). The complete trilogy will be screened over the course of the week, as will Anderson's ''In Celebration'' (1975), ''This Sporting Life'' (1963) and ''The Whales of August'' (1987). As a bonus, two films by John Ford, a director Anderson championed during his early career as a critic, will be shown: ''My Darling Clementine'' (1946) on Sunday, and ''They Were Expendable'' (1945), in an archive print from George Eastman House, on Thursday. Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 975-5600, filmlinc.org; $11. (Dave Kehr) 
 ELLIOTT GOULD: STAR FOR AN UPTIGHT AGE (Saturday through Thursday) A retrospective devoted to this underappreciated actor continues with some of his harder-to-find films of the 1970s, including Mel Stuart's ''I Love My Wife'' (Monday), Richard Rush's ''Getting Straight'' (Tuesday), Mark Rydell's ''Harry and Walter Go to New York'' (Wednesday) and a very rare screening of Ingmar Bergman's ''Touch'' (Thursday). BAM Rose Cinemas, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100, bam.org; $11. (Kehr)
 RETROSPECTIVE: REMEMBERING ARTHUR LIPSETT (Friday through Sunday) Lipsett, who committed suicide in 1986, was a Canadian filmmaker whose early black-and-white montages, like ''Very Nice, Very Nice'' (1961) and ''21-87'' (1964), influenced directors as diverse as Stanley Kubrick and George Lucas. Blending found footage (of fashion shows, robotics demonstrations, frenzied rock 'n' roll dancers) with his own images of pained, frightened faces captured on the streets of Montreal and New York, and playing the whole against a soundtrack composed of contrapuntal music cues and snatches of ominous dialogue, Lipsett created chilling little visions of a conformist, consumerist society on the verge of collapse. He'll be honored this weekend with two programs of his work, one (Friday and Saturday at 7 p.m.) devoted to his films of the '60s, another (Saturday and Sunday at 9 p.m.) to his longer films of the '70s, as well as screenings of Martin Lavut's 2006 video profile of Lipsett, ''Remembering Arthur.'' Anthology Film Archives, 32-34 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org; $8. (Kehr)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); MOVIE RATINGS (90%); FILM (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); FILM GENRES (79%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); FILM DIRECTORS (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); POETRY (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); WRITERS (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (67%); MARRIAGE (61%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (50%)

PERSON: HEATH LEDGER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (90%); ITALY (67%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008



366 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1749 words

HEADLINE: As Track Takes Center Stage, Different Athletes Find the Spotlight

BYLINE: By LYNN ZINSER

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
A week into the Olympics, track and field is about to assume center stage at the Beijing Games on Friday, taking an imaginary torch from swimming and carrying it through the final day of competition.
 Here is a look at some of the faces of the United States team and the stories that will play out at the Bird's Nest, the Olympic stadium.
 LOLO JONES, 100-meter hurdles
 Lolo Jones's journey to the Olympics began in a most unlikely place, the basement of a church in Des Moines. 
 Jones's mother, Lori, and her five children lived a peripatetic existence. Jones said they moved almost constantly, staying one step ahead of rent collectors, and the children attended a new school every year. Jones said her father was not around, that he was in the Air Force and when he got out, he bounced in and out of jail.
 ''We were living at the bottom of a church when I was in third or fourth grade,'' Jones said. ''I don't know how long. First thing I knew I was going to camp there and next thing I knew we were living in the basement. I'd sneak up before the kids came to the camp like I had just arrived there. It was weird.''
 When Jones was in high school, striving to earn a college track scholarship, she said she told her mother she would not move any more. Her last three years of high school, she lived with three families. 
 ''I just wanted to get out of poverty,'' she said. ''I knew what my mom was experiencing, working two jobs to help feed us. I just knew that getting to college was the answer. I wanted solid ground for the future. My main goal was not track. My main goal was college.''
 Jones graduated from Theodore Roosevelt High School in Des Moines and earned a scholarship to run at Louisiana State. She graduated in 2004 with a degree in economics.
 But Jones found her way back to forced frugality. She wanted to continue in track and field, but she had no endorsement contracts. So she worked part-time jobs, including as a cashier at The Home Depot, and refused to turn on the air-conditioning during some of Louisiana's hottest summer days.
 So it seemed fitting that Jones celebrated her victory in the Olympic trials with one of the most emotional celebrations of that meet. She pumped her arms and legs and screamed, hurling her trademark sunglasses into the crowd.
 ''It was like in the movies, I had a flashback,'' Jones said. ''I just remembered four years ago, not making the team and going outside and crying and wanting to give up. I crossed that line and knew I was on that team and I knew I was going to be an Olympian.''
 She might be the quintessential American Olympian, with a diverse heritage -- her family is a mix of French, German, Norwegian, African-American and American Indian -- and a story of overcoming a life full of barriers.
 LEONEL MANZANO, 1,500 meters
 When Leonel Manzano was growing up in Marble Falls, Tex., his parents could not understand why he wanted to run. They had brought their family to the United States from Mexico when Manzano was 4 years old, expecting they would all work hard and build a better life.
 ''I remember telling my parents I was joining this thing called track and field, and they were like, 'What is that?' '' he said. ''They were actually kind of mad at me.''
 Manzano is one of three immigrant stories in the men's 1,500. Better publicized are the journeys of the defending world champion Bernard Lagat, who ran in the 2004 Games for Kenya; and Lopez Lomong, who was one of the Lost Boys of Sudan before coming to the United States at age 16. When Manzano finished second in the trials, after Lagat and before Lomong, he fit in perfectly.
 ''I have my roots, my culture,'' Manzano said. ''But America is my home.''
 The story of the Manzano family is like that of so many who consider America the place to realize their dreams. They had no idea their dream would bring their son to an Olympics half way around the world.
 ''I'm really excited because my parents have never really been out of the country, aside from Mexico, and they've never been on a plane,'' Manzano said. ''My mom gets car sick, so this might be an ordeal for them. But they are excited.''
 DEE DEE TROTTER, 400 meters
 Fewer than two months before the Olympic trials, Dee Dee Trotter went to close a car door and it bounced back and slammed into her left knee. It chipped her femur bone and left fragments in her knee.
 At 25, Trotter was suddenly out of training and watching her dream of an individual Olympic medal slip away. She had won a gold medal as part of the 4x400-meter relay in the 2004 Games. 
 ''I'm here competing with the grace of God and a great doctor back in Knoxville, who has me pretty much together enough to come out here and compete,'' said Trotter, who fought her way back to finish third in the Olympic trials.
 Trotter's luggage was lost on the trip to Beijing. Eventually, it arrived along with her most cherished pre-Games purchase: the DVD of the fifth season of ''SpongeBob SquarePants.''
 ''I do watch SpongeBob,'' Trotter said. ''He calms my nerves before a race. For some reason, his antics and his silliness is something I really cherish when I'm getting ready to race. Sometimes you need something to take you down a notch.''
 ADAM NELSON, shot put
 In the past two Olympics, Adam Nelson has gone home with a silver medal. This time, he does not know what he will go home with, but he knows what awaits him when he arrives.
 Nelson's wife, Laci, is expecting their first child in early September. They are trying to sandwich all this excitement around Laci starting law school and Adam starting graduate school classes at the University of Virginia.
 Oh, and there is the Olympic shot put, which kicks off track and field's medal events on Friday. Not only is Nelson a threat to win another medal, the United States team is so strong it hopes to sweep the medals. Nelson, Reese Hoffa and Christian Cantwell have combined for 14 of the 20 best throws in the world this year.
 ''That's certainly a big motivation for the three shot putters,'' Nelson said. ''We know we are the best in the world and we all expect to do well here.
 ''There is a little bit of pressure. They look to us to start the medal tally.''
 Nelson, 33, would like to move up the ranks this time and win a gold medal, but he also knows that is not the most important event facing him.
 ''We compete on Friday and I have to go home right away because we're not really sure when this baby could come,'' Nelson said. ''Seven days after I get back, I start school. Seven or eight days after that, we're expecting a baby. So a lot's going to be happening.''
 JENNIFER BARRINGER, steeplechase
 In Jennifer Barringer's first attempt at the steeplechase, she hated it. In fact, she disliked the entire season. She was a freshman at the University of Colorado and because she was not among the team's top 5,000-meter runners, her coach told her to try the steeplechase, a relatively new event for women.
 ''I thought it was a grueling race,'' Barringer said. ''My legs were really sore, every day. There's a painful adjustment to the ballistic elements of the race. It was really difficult for me to get into it at first. I maybe slightly resented the fact that I wasn't in the 5,000.''
 Like the event or not, Barringer won the N.C.A.A. championship that season and had a new specialty. She finished second at the Olympic trials behind Anna Willard, and just two weeks later in a meet in Germany, she smashed the American record with a time of 9 minutes 22.73 seconds.
 Women's steeplechase was added to the Olympic program for the Beijing Games.
 ''We get asked all the time, 'Now what's the steeplechase? Is that a horse event?' '' said Lindsey Anderson, Barringer's teammate. ''It's fun to actually explain it, the history of it, that it's going to be the first time it's going to be in the Olympics.''
 SHAWN CRAWFORD, 200 meters
 Four years ago, Shawn Crawford was on top of the world. He led a United States sweep of the 200 meters at the Athens Olympics and exulted as the gold medalist.
 But the ensuing years brought a steroid scandal to his door -- his coach, Trevor Graham, became the pivotal figure in the Balco scandal -- as well as injuries and an upheaval to his training when Graham was shooed from the sport.
 Crawford, 30, ran nowhere near his old form until this year's Olympic trials, when he finished second, a mere 0.005 seconds behind Walter Dix, in the 200. He has been training in Los Angeles with Coach Bobby Kersee.
 ''I went from being in Raleigh, which is a sprint-based training regimen to training with Bobby Kersee, and he approaches everything from a quarter-miler perspective,'' Crawford said. ''So I had to be a little patient in the workouts and get cussed out in workouts a lot. It was a little different when you go from the farthest thing you run was a 300 to doing 600 and 800s. I think I grew as an athlete. Now, I'm more diligent, I work harder, I'm more patient with myself. I think it was a change for the best.''
 Crawford was never implicated in any doping cases and he said he never had anything to do with the substances uncovered in Balco. Still, the scandal had its effect on him.
 ''Nobody knows what actually happened except for the people who were involved,'' Crawford said. ''Justice prevails, that's how I look at it. I still look at Trevor, he's a good friend of mine, a great coach, took me to some of the best times of my career. Just watching that, it disappoints you a little bit.''
 WALTER DIX, 100 and 200 meters
 Before the Olympic trials, Walter Dix was known as the runner who was bucking the normal trends. He stayed at Florida State for a year after he graduated to finish out his eligibility, and he did not immediately sign with a sponsor.
 After wearing his Florida State uniform to the trials, he is the only American man competing in both the 100 and the 200, a double becoming increasingly rare. That earned him a big contract with Nike and another from Oakley sunglasses.
 His quest begins Friday, with the first two rounds of the 100. It is Dix's favorite race, although he is better at the 200, in which only Jamaica's Usain Bolt has run faster this year. In the 100, he is ranked much lower.
 ''A lot of people run the rounds and they don't win but they have the world record,'' Dix said. ''It definitely has to do with toughness, physically and mentally. Sometimes the fastest guy doesn't win, but the strongest guy always wins.''
 Dix plans on being that guy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRACK & FIELD (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); RUNNING (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (88%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (77%); FAMILY (75%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%)

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (63%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (56%)

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (63%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008



367 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; HAVENS WILLIAMS, ARIZ.; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: On Route 66 at the Canyon's Door

BYLINE: By JILL P. CAPUZZO

 BODY:
LIKE the legendary frontiersman Bill Williams, for whom the town was named, Williams, Ariz., is a survivor, withstanding repeated challenges to its existence over the last few decades.
 First it was the end of the local steam railroad to the Grand Canyon that almost did in this frontier town in the 1960s. Then, in 1984, the stretch of Route 66 running through downtown Williams became the last section of the historic highway to be bypassed by Interstate 40. More recently, the downturn in the housing market and the delay of a long-promised Western theme park have taken a toll.
 But in each case, this small northern Arizona city, which calls itself the ''Gateway to the Grand Canyon,'' has bounced back, continuing to draw vacationers who stumble on Williams en route to the canyon, about 60 miles north of town, and return to buy second homes. Located 6,770 feet above sea level and surrounded by the Kaibab National Forest, part of the largest stand of Ponderosa pines in the United States, Williams offers an Arizona experience far different from the typical cactus-dappled desert. 
 While the summer temperature can reach 120 degrees in southern Arizona, Nevada and inland California, it almost never gets hotter than 85 degrees in Williams, making the town attractive to those living within a three- or four-hour drive, in cities like Phoenix, Tucson or Las Vegas. And Flagstaff, a popular college town, is only about 35 miles east. 
 Dale Regelman, 58, said he was looking to escape the heat of Tucson when he bought a 2,700-square-foot house a few miles north of downtown Williams in 2004. But more and more, Mr. Regelman, a patent lawyer, said, he came here for the peace and quiet and the sense of nostalgia the area provides.
 ''It's like hitting a time warp, back 50 or 60 years into what rural America was like,'' Mr. Regelman said. 
 Without any office distractions, Mr. Regelman said, he can spend mornings writing patent applications and pass afternoons skiing in and around Williams or exploring the Grand Canyon, where he likes to hike, bike or play his violin.
 Instrumental to the city's link with the national park is the Grand Canyon Railway, a historic steam engine that embarks from Williams. Begun in 1901, the railway ended passenger service in 1968. But it was revived in 1989 -- and a hotel and tourist village opened around the depot -- and it now transports more than 230,000 people a year on its two-and-a-quarter-hour ride to the canyon.
 ''If it wasn't for that train, this community would be dead,'' said John Rushton, owner of Bankers Real Estate. 
 Dennis Wells, the city manager, agreed, noting that the rail connection has driven tourism, Williams's primary industry. This year, he said, European and Asian tourists, taking advantage of the weak dollar, have flocked here to see the Grand Canyon.
 In 2005, Grand Canyon-Northland Amusements and Entertainment announced plans to build a western-themed amusement park in Williams. Mr. Rushton said more than a dozen realtors opened up shop, and home prices and sales increased.
 But three years later, the weak economy has put plans for the park ''in a holding pattern,'' Mr. Wells said, and many realtors have left town. Homes are now staying on the market longer, an average of three months today, compared with 20 days in 2005, Mr. Rushton said. Northland said the project was taking longer than expected because its original plan had been expanded but that it continued to move forward. 
 Some second-home buyers come to escape the crowds as well as the heat. Pat and Jerry Anthony, both 63, have made the six-and-a half-hour drive from their home in Laguna Hills, just south of Los Angeles, to Williams several times since buying land last year in Escalante, a gated community at the base of Bill Williams Mountain.
 ''We lived in small towns in Connecticut and Pennsylvania and we really liked them,'' Mr. Anthony said. ''Then we came to this concrete canyon of southern California, with a gazillion not-very-friendly folks, and we were yearning to get back to a small-town atmosphere,'' he added.
 The Scene
 From Williams, visitors can book tours offering Grand Canyon access by steam engine, car, jeep, mule or helicopter. And tourists are drawn to Williams itself for its Wild West heritage and the 1950s atmosphere of its well-preserved stretch of Route 66. Bordellos and saloons once filled the storefronts in the historic district along Route 66, but the area now has shops, restaurants and bars. Summer activities include re-enactments of gunfights in the street, vintage car shows and festivals. Every Labor Day, a rodeo comes to town.
 Pros
 Beautiful scenery, a temperate climate and one of the world's most spectacular natural wonders less than an hour away? You can't ask for much more in a getaway destination.
 Cons
 Most houses outside the city limits are not part of the municipal water system, so homeowners pay more for water and must truck it in or have it delivered. In the winter, average temperatures fall into the 30s.
 The Real Estate Market
 Downtown Williams is home to mostly year-round residents, while the area surrounding the city caters largely to second-home buyers. In the latter group, about 60 percent buy land to build and the rest purchase existing homes, Mr. Rushton estimated.
 Climbing toward Bill Williams Mountain south of town, buyers will find some of the most expensive houses, and land selling for $200,000 or more per lot. A 4,100-square-foot log home on three acres was recently listed at $950,000, while a nearby 3,000-square-foot custom home on four acres recently sold for $700,000, reduced from $950,000. 
 Lots in the Escalante development are selling for $150,000 to $400,000, in part because the 280-house community will be connected to the city water and sewer systems. The Anthonys paid $320,000 for their nine-tenths of an acre; they expect to spend $1.2 million on the 4,200-square-foot house they are building, Mr. Anthony said.
 Prices have fallen for houses and land in the once highly coveted golf course area, north of Interstate 40, local realtors said. In the Highland Meadows subdivision, one-third-acre lots that had sold for $150,000 are now selling for less than $100,000. House prices in this area range from $229,000 for a patio home to $400,000 for a home with 2,000 square feet of living space. That's down from $500,000 a few years ago, said Debi Zecchin, owner of Russ Lyon Realty of Williams. 
 Four years ago, Mr. Regelman paid $130,000 for his four-bedroom house on two acres north of downtown Williams. Since then, he said, he's introduced many people to the town. ''I have a lot of friends from all over the country who want to visit here,'' said Mr. Regelman. ''I mail them the keys, they come, and have the time of their lives.''
 LAY OF THE LAND
 POPULATION 3,201, according to 2006 Census Bureau estimates.
 SIZE 43.8 square miles.
 WHERE Williams is 35 west of Flagstaff and about 175 miles north of Phoenix.
 WHO'S BUYING Mostly residents from southern Arizona, Nevada and Southern California looking to escape scorching summer heat.
 WHILE YOU'RE LOOKING: The Buffalo Pointe Inn (437 W. Route 66, 800-973-6210; www.buffalopointeinn.com) has seven rooms; rates start at $69 and include breakfast. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ON THE TOWN: Once home to bordellos and saloons, old Route 66 in Williams is now full of restaurants and shops.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID KADLUBOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP Map details area of Williams. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); TRAINS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (75%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); HIKING (75%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (70%); NATIONAL PARKS (70%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (63%); PATENTS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (92%); FLAGSTAFF, AZ, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (78%) ARIZONA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008



368 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING EUROPE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 113 words

HEADLINE: Turkey: Energy Pact With Iran

BYLINE: By SEBNEM ARSU

 BODY:
Iran and Turkey have agreed to increase their cooperation on trading energy, President Abdullah Gul of Turkey said Thursday. His announcement, in Istanbul with President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran, hurt efforts by the United States to isolate Iran economically to compel it to halt nuclear development. Mr. Ahmadinejad said: ''Nuclear energy is a type of energy that all people need, and a few countries cannot hold the right to monopolize and prohibit other countries from using this energy. It is an ugly approach to treat this energy the same as a bomb.'' Mr. Gul said the agreement would ease the transportation of natural gas and electricity from and through Iran to Turkey. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (88%); ENERGY MARKETS (88%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (88%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (89%); ABDULLAH GUL (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (88%) TURKEY (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008



369 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: California Embroiled In Battle Over Budget

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Each August in California, there are several givens: Succulent heirloom tomatoes will overflow in farmer's markets. A fire will rage somewhere. And state lawmakers will fight over the budget, weeks after the deadline for its closing. 
 Most states have a fiscal year that begins on July 1. California is the only one of those that has yet to hammer out a budget, as legislators wrangle over how to close a budget gap of roughly $15 billion. 
 In response, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger signed an order on July 31 temporarily cutting the pay of roughly 176,000 state workers to the federal minimum wage of $6.55 an hour, and ordered nearly 10,000 state workers to be laid off. 
 As each day has passed without a budget, the governor, a Republican, has grown increasingly testy, denouncing lawmakers almost daily and insisting that he will veto any legislation -- even that which he avidly supports -- until a budget is approved. He has also said he will limit his own travel, perhaps bypassing the Republican National Convention in early September, during which he is expected to speak.
 Sacramento has produced an on-time budget only four times in the last 20 years, and has been known to snake the process into September. Democrats, who control the Legislature and who seek a temporary increase in the sales tax to plug the budget gap, are at odds with Republicans, who want to cut services.
 State Controller John Chiang, a Democrat, has said he would not abide by the pay-cut order because it could open the state to lawsuits and harm workers. As a practical matter, in fact, the state's computers are too antiquated to deal with a payroll change. Mr. Chiang's office has been sued by the Schwarzenegger administration, though to what effect remains to be seen. 
 ''It is very hard for Schwarzenegger to get a preliminary injunction, because he has to demonstrate irreparable harm,'' said Jonathan Zasloff, a law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, and an expert on the state's Constitution. ''What's the irreparable harm in paying salaries to workers that they will eventually get as soon as there is a budget?''
 The governor has said he would reimburse workers for their full pay once the Legislature completes a budget.
 California is among many states with budget troubles caused by the economic slowdown. In June, as most states ended their fiscal years, 20 states reported budget gaps, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. California's gap is worse than that of most other states, but not as large a percentage of the budget as a state like Arizona, which has also been hurt in the housing slump. A national economic slowdown and the foreclosure crisis, and resulting decreases in several forms of state taxes, have combined to make it so. 
 But California's problems are both more severe, and, perhaps more intransigent, than those of other states. The state is among the worst-hit in the foreclosure crisis, and a record number of California homeowners were met with foreclosures last quarter. There were 121,341 mortgage defaults, up 125 percent from the second quarter of 2007, according to DataQuick Information Systems.
 ''Clearly, foreclosures have been a significant challenge,'' said Arturo Perez, a principal of the fiscal affairs program at the national legislatures conference. 
 California is also one of only three states to require a two-thirds majority in the Legislature to pass a budget, a particularly challenging requirement at a time of large deficits. Further, the state relies on income taxes rather than property taxes for most of its revenues, a difficult formula in tough times. 
 And the structure of the state's budget -- which is heavily based on borrowed money and peppered with numerous mandatory spending requirements approved by voters -- makes it all the harder to balance. 
 The state has already cut its Medicaid reimbursement rate by 10 percent and deferred payments to vendors. Mr. Schwarzenegger has called for reductions of 10 percent across the board for most departments, and an increase in the sales tax may also be in the offing.
 Outside of the layoffs, the pinch is being felt statewide. Vendors that have been cut off from the state are in a worse position this year than in previous years, because the tightening credit market makes it harder to get the short-term loans they need to get through the state's budget impasse.
 Nina Nolcox, who owns Graceful Senescence, which provides nursing care and therapy to the elderly in South Los Angeles, has already cut her payroll to deal with the 10 percent Medicaid cut and cash deferrals from the government in June. 
 This week she got her last check from Sacramento until the budget is signed. Roughly 70 percent of her business comes from clients paid for by state programs. Cuts to her staff's hours, she said, are next.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Wendell Prude, left, a union leader, with state workers protesting at Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's home in Los Angeles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANCINE ORR/LOS ANGELES TIMES, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); VETO (78%); APPROVALS (77%); SALES TAX (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); INJUNCTIONS (74%); FORECLOSURE (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); MINIMUM WAGE (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); CREDIT CRISIS (70%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (69%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (69%); LITIGATION (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (65%); TAX INCREASES (65%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (63%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008



370 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 686 words

PERSON: Henry B. R. Brown 

HEADLINE: Henry B. R. Brown, Who Opened Money Markets to Masses, Dies at 82

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

 BODY:
Henry B. R. Brown, who was a struggling financial consultant in 1969 when he and a partner, Bruce R. Bent, came up with an idea -- the money-market mutual fund -- that spawned a $3.5 trillion industry, died on Monday in Leesburg, Va., where he lived on a farm that has been in his family for 200 years. He was 82.
 The cause was an abdominal aneurysm, his son Peter said. 
 Money-market mutual funds let small investors open what amounted to high-yield savings accounts with mutual fund companies rather than banks.
 Until the 1970s, because of a Depression-era law known as Regulation Q that served as a kind of life preserver for banks, the Federal Reserve limited the rates banks could pay on savings accounts; they could then lend out the money at higher rates.
 Mr. Brown and Mr. Bent observed that it was possible for investors to get higher returns on certificates of deposit or commercial paper, but only if they could afford the six-figure sums it cost to buy into the higher-yielding instruments. Their solution was a mutual fund that essentially allowed many small investors to pool resources and share in the higher returns.
 ''I was sitting at my desk in August 1969, and I looked up at Brown and said, 'Why not a mutual fund?' '' Mr. Bent recalled for Fortune magazine in 1999. ''He said he didn't know anything about mutual funds. I said, 'I don't know anything about mutual funds either, but I think it would work.' ''
 Mr. Brown did the research, reviewing the banking laws of all 50 states. Over the next few years, trying to finance what they called the Reserve Fund, they reportedly fell $250,000 in debt. According to Time magazine, their fortunes turned after The New York Times published an article about the fund on Jan. 7, 1973. By the end of 1973 they had $100 million in deposits. 
 In 2001, Paul A. Samuelson, the 1970 Nobel laureate in economic science, said in a speech that Mr. Brown and Mr. Bent also deserved the Nobel. Today, the original Reserve Fund has assets of $62 billion; the Investment Company Institute, an association of mutual funds, said that as of Wednesday, total money-market mutual fund assets were $3.575 trillion.
 Henry Bedinger Rust Brown was born in Pittsburgh, on Feb. 13, 1926. His father was an executive for a company that made blast furnaces.
 His grandfather, Addison Brown, was a Federal District Court judge in New York City and a botanist who in 1891 was among the founders of the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx. Mr. Brown's great-great, or great-great-great grandfather -- ''I'm not sure how many greats,'' Peter Brown said -- was Richard Henry Lee, the Virginia statesman who called for a declaration of independence on June 7, 1776.
 Mr. Brown, who was known as Harry, graduated from Harvard, where he was a cartoonist on The Harvard Lampoon. He worked for Chemical Bank in the early 1950s, then at what is now Citibank. In 1963 he became manager of securities investments for the Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association.
 ''If you teachers should wonder why your TIAA pension may not have performed as well as you expected, I apologize,'' he wrote in a tongue-in-cheek autobiography for his 50th high school reunion in 1993.
 He retired to life as a gentleman farmer and engaged in other, eccentric pursuits; he became, with a partner, Chris Gerow, an annual entrant in the Punkin Chunkin competition in Delaware, in which teams create machines to catapult pumpkins over great distances.
 In addition to his son Peter, of Washington, Mr. Brown is survived by his wife of 54 years, Betsey; two brothers, Fitzhugh Brown of Sewickley, Pa., and Stanley Brown of Bethesda, Md.; another son, Alexander, of Boulder, Colo.; two daughters, Elizabeth Devlin of Tewksbury, N.J., and Harriet Dickerson of Waterford, Va.; and 10 grandchildren.
 When Mr. Brown heard that Mr. Samuelson had judged him Nobel-worthy, he wrote to thank him.
 ''I wish I could say that our 'invention' resulted from any brilliance on our part,'' Mr. Brown wrote, ''but it was actually a combination of the threat of starvation and pure greed that drove us to it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Henry Brown in the 1980s. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (85%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BANKING LAW (75%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (75%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (74%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (69%); BOTANY (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); NOBEL PRIZES (60%)

HENRY E BROWN JR (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008



371 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: Russia's Conflict Worries Wall Street

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

DATELINE: NEW YORK 

 BODY:
When Prime Minister Vladmir V. Putin of Russia wiped $6 billion in shareholder value from a Russian steel company last month with a few choice words, even risk-taking investors in Russia took notice. 
 Now, as a military conflict between Russia and Georgia ends its first week, a number of big Wall Street banks are beginning to reassess the stability of their businesses in the oil-rich nation. 
 And while they are not planning to reverse their investments soon, they are increasingly nervous that Russia's high-risk, high-reward environment is becoming too much about the risk. 
 Some investment banks had already begun to pause new debt and stock offerings in recent weeks, unnerved by Mr. Putin's effect on Mechel, a coal mining and steel company whose shares plunged after he criticized its chief executive, and by the departure of the American chief executive of BP's joint venture in Russia, which is under pressure from the government and BP's Russian partners. 
 Financial executives at several Wall Street investment firms, who spoke anonymously because they did not want to antagonize the Russian government, said they were starting to ask whether Russia had become riskier than they had expected. 
 ''We expect some things to be controlled in a directed economy -- the question is the unpredictability,'' said a senior executive at a United States investment bank. ''Russia has become the largest risk in the financial markets.'' 
 For many, that has been reflected in the Russian stock market. Once a hot investment, it has slumped nearly 25 percent in the last two months. Bankers have also pulled back on deals in the same period. Investment banking revenue from Russia was $148 million from mid-July to now. That is down from $260 million from mid-June to mid-July. And, halfway through this month, there have only been eight transactions raising debt for companies in Russia, compared with 37 in July, according to data compiled by Dealogic, a financial services research firm. 
 Pressure on Russia's market has grown in part because of uncertainty over whether Mr. Putin, the former president and now prime minister, still wields more clout than his successor, Dmitri A. Medvedev. 
 A prolonged dispute between BP, the giant British oil concern, and its powerful Russian partners has also rattled the nerves of investors with fresh memories of the dismantling of Yukos, once Russia's largest private oil company, and the weakening of Shell, once the largest foreign investor in the country.
 On Thursday, a Russian court said it had barred Robert Dudley, the chief executive of BP's Russian joint venture, from office for two years.
 To be sure, Western banks have reaped huge gains from investing in Russia, especially through underwritings of debt and stock offerings. This year, Merrill Lynch has made nearly $100 million in fees on investment banking deals in Russia, and JPMorgan Chase was not far behind at $90 million, according to Dealogic. Total investment banking revenues from Russian deals grew 150 percent from 2005 to 2007, and bank executives have been counting on future growth.
 But the experience with Mechel in late July raised fresh questions among investment bankers. Many have begun to ask whether they might be caught the next time an unexpected government pronouncement beats down a company's shares or pushes the Russian stock market lower. 
 Within the last week, rumors have swirled in the financial community that Gazprom, the Russian natural gas monopoly, held off a debt offering, and that Western bankers met with Russian politicians to express their concerns.
 The spate of news has come as the American dollar strengthened against the ruble, and the cost of insuring against Russian government debt has gone up. And then there is the retreat of oil prices, whose role in helping the Russian economy nearly double in size since 2006 may begin to cool, in the view of some bankers. 
 ''There's been a huge number of bad headlines generated about Russia in the last couple months,'' said Roland Nash, the head of research for Renaissance Capital, a Russian investment bank, ''and I'm not surprised that that spooks investment banks in London or New York.'' 
 Until recently, investment banking was still hot in Russia, even as it leveled off in other mature economies buffeted by the credit crisis. Investment banking fees in Russia have reached $1.3 billion this year, an amount that is about even with the same period last year, according to Dealogic. In contrast, in the United States, investment banking business is down 34 percent this year. 
 Merrill Lynch, JPMorgan Chase and Deutsche Bank have made the most money in Russia this year, according to Dealogic, offsetting those companies' weaker results in the United States. Deutsche Bank, Morgan Stanley and Citigroup earned the most in Russian fees last year. 
 Still, emerging market strategists said their phones have been ringing off of the hook with questions from bankers on both sides of the Atlantic. 
 But it is the Americans who have grown more wary than their European counterparts.
 ''Clearly Russia does not look good in the Western eyes with the Georgia operation,'' said Alain Bourrier, a senior portfolio manager who runs an emerging markets fund at BlackRock.
 Russian officials have noticed those concerns. Two weeks ago, Mr. Medvedev gave a long speech acknowledging that the Russian government needed to ''stop causing nightmares'' for business. 
 ''Everything is under such a microscope now,'' said Matthew Vogel, managing director of European, African and Middle East emerging-markets strategy at Barclays Capital. Bankers who have worked in Russia over longer periods said the increased risk in the markets should not be surprising.
 ''Anyone who is familiar with the scene here does not see it as completely new,'' said Fawzi Kyriakos-Saad, Credit Suisse's chief executive officer of Russia, Turkey and the Commonwealth of Independent States. 
 Some people compared the turmoil to 1998, when Russia defaulted on its debt payments. Back then, several Wall Street firms discontinued their business in Russia.
 ''Moving in and out of markets shouldn't be taken lightly,'' said Gregory J. Fleming, the president and chief operating officer of Merrill Lynch. 
 ''At the same time, it creates a pause,'' he said about the turmoil in Russia. ''There's no question that you've got to stand back and think about what the implications are -- not for just next week but two years from now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin on Thursday in Moscow.(PHOTOGRAPH BY POOL PHOTO BY ALEXEI NIKOLSKY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); JOINT VENTURES (88%); SOUTH OSSETIAN CONFLICT (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); COAL MINING (54%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); OAO NK YUKOS (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (51%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%); ROBERT DUDLEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008



372 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Russia Vows to Support Two Enclaves, in Retort to Bush

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY; Reporting was contributed by Ellen Barry from Moscow; C.J. Chivers from Gori, Georgia; Michael Schwirtz from Poti, Georgia; and David Stout from Washington.

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
Russia issued a rebuke to President Bush on Thursday over the conflict in neighboring Georgia, refusing an immediate withdrawal of its troops there, affirming its support for two separatist enclaves and warning the United States to avoid doing anything that would encourage its Georgian ally to reignite hostilities.
 In response, in the most pointed language yet from a Bush administration official, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates declared that Russia's actions now required a full reassessment of administration efforts to create ''an ongoing and long-term strategic dialogue with Russia.'' 
 At a Pentagon briefing, Mr. Gates said, ''Russia's behavior over the past week has called into question the entire premise of that dialogue and has profound implications for our security relationship going forward, both bilaterally and with NATO. If Russia does not step back from its aggressive posture and actions in Georgia, the U.S.-Russian relationship could be adversely affected for years to come.''
 Still, he ruled out the use of American military force in connection with the conflict. ''I don't see any prospect for the use of military force by the United States in this situation,'' Mr. Gates said. ''Clear enough?''
 On the ground in Georgia, both sides appeared to take tentative steps to back away from further fighting and adhere to the framework of a cease-fire brokered on Wednesday. But by the end of the day, Russian troops continued to hold their positions, and conditions were largely unchanged.
 A day after Mr. Bush demanded that Russia pull its forces from Georgia and sent humanitarian aid there, it was clear that tensions between the two powers were not subsiding.
 Russia's president, Dmitri A. Medvedev, held a televised meeting with the leaders of the two breakaway regions, South Ossetia and Abkhazia, and pledged that Russia would provide whatever they needed to secede lawfully from Georgia.
 The Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, said separately in a radio interview that Georgia ''can forget about'' its territorial integrity because the Georgian government under President Mikheil Saakashvili had committed so many atrocities that the two breakaway regions could never live under Georgian rule.
 Russian defense officials raised questions about the nature of the humanitarian aid that the United States military has begun airlifting to Tbilisi, the Georgian capital. And the Russian Foreign Ministry said in a statement that Washington should avoid steps that might prompt new fighting and ''lead to the repetition of a tragic scenario.''
 For their part, American and Georgian officials reiterated that Russia was the aggressor. Mr. Saakashvili, a fluent English speaker who was educated in the United States, has made a string of appearances in recent days on American television networks intended to rally support for his country.
 The Russian military action in Georgia, which erupted a week ago, underscored the Kremlin's determination to maintain influence over other former Soviet republics and ward off expansion of NATO, which Georgia wants to join. The conflict has caused perhaps the greatest strain in relations between the United States and Russia since Vladimir V. Putin took power here in 2000 and began seeking to revive Russia's standing.
 Mr. Gates suggested that Russia's goal was not really peacekeeping and the protection of pro-Russian inhabitants of South Ossetia. Rather, he said, it was to send a message to Georgia and other former Soviet states that they should think twice before ''daring to try to integrate with the West.''
 The Russian reaction came as Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice headed to the region to work for a settlement and to show support for Mr. Saakashvili, a close friend of the United States.
 She was sent by Mr. Bush, who declared Wednesday that if Russia did not abide by the cease-fire, it would risk its place in ''the diplomatic, political, economic and security structures of the 21st century.''
 Ms. Rice is due in Georgia on Friday, and is not planning to visit Moscow, a decision that Russian officials have interpreted as a snub. She stopped in France to meet with President Nicolas Sarkozy, who negotiated the framework for the cease-fire between Russia and Georgia.
 Ms. Rice told reporters there, ''It is time for this crisis to be over.''
 At the White House, a Bush administration spokeswoman, Dana M. Perino, brushed aside the statements by the Kremlin on Thursday.
 Asked about Mr. Lavrov's comment about Georgia's territorial integrity, Ms. Perino said, ''I would consider that to be bluster from the foreign minister of Russia. We will ignore it.''
 At the Kremlin meeting with leaders of South Ossetia and Abkhazia, Mr. Medvedev said Russia would back their aspirations as long they complied with the United Nations charter and other principles of international law. It is unclear whether the two regions want full independence, a formal alliance with Russia or full integration with Russia.
 ''You defended your land, and justice was on your side,'' Mr. Medvedev said.
 In Georgia on Thursday, Russian forces briefly allowed Georgian police to return to the city of Gori as Russian troops appeared to prepare to pull out. But joint patrols were canceled three hours later and the city returned to full Russian control.
 Gori was the focus of international protest after Russia shelled it and occupied it on Wednesday. The attempt at joint patrols on Thursday at first suggested the conflict had ebbed. The city is just 40 miles from Tbilisi, and rumors had circulated on Wednesday of a possible advance on the city.
 It was not clear why the joint patrols failed, but it appeared that there was discord among personnel. Around 10 a.m. Thursday, a Russian Army major general ordered Georgian and Russian officers to patrol in pairs, but this did not last.
 ''We had to go or there would have been shooting,'' said a Georgian officer, who spoke on condition that he not be identified.
 More than 30 Georgian police officers left Gori and returned to a Georgian post outside the city; shortly afterward Russian troops fired five artillery rounds. Their target was not clear.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (78%); MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); GEORGIA (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008



373 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM IN REVIEW; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1731 words

HEADLINE: The Clone Wars

BYLINE: By NATHAN LEE, JEANNETTE CATSOULIS, ANDY WEBSTER, and RACHEL SALTZ

 BODY:
STAR WARS
The Clone Wars
Opens on Friday nationwide.
Directed by Dave Filoni
1 hour 35 minutes
Expectations were set so low by George Lucas's lousy trilogy of ''Star Wars'' prequels that the latest from the Lucasfilm factory, a feature-length digital animation called ''Star Wars: The Clone Wars,'' comes as something of a surprise: it isn't the most painful movie of the year!
Set between Episodes II and III, this new ''Star Wars'' saga (II.5?) completes the franchise's divorce from photography-based cinema, as well as from any relationship to credible human feeling.
As a mechanical thrill ride, however, ''The Clone Wars'' has an uncluttered look and furious pace that make it more or less as satisfying as its wildly overdesigned predecessors, although it's neither as agile nor as well made as the terrific series of short, traditionally animated ''Clone Wars'' installments shown on the Cartoon Network from 2003 to 2005. 
The director, Dave Filoni, has cited ''Thunderbirds,'' the 1960s British animation series with marionettes, as an inspiration for the, uh, wooden style of his picture, but the stiff, self-important characterizations; corny space-war talk; and overheated militarism kept reminding me of ''Team America: World Police.''
No more than a pretext for exploding robots and light-saber duels, the plot concerns the efforts of Anakin Skywalker and Ahsoka Tano, his neophyte sidekick, to secure a fragile alliance by retrieving Jabba the Hutt's baby son from the double-crossing clutches of Count Dooku, blah, blah, blah. Exploding robots! NATHAN LEE
''Star Wars: The Clone Wars'' is rated PG (Parental guidance suggested) for bloodless sci-fi mayhem.
JACK BROOKS
Monster Slayer
Opens on Friday in Manhattan.
Directed by Jon Knautz
1 hour 25 minutes
A low-budget, high-value creature feature, ''Jack Brooks: Monster Slayer'' harks back to the drive-in classics of yesteryear with unapologetic nostalgia and undisguised affection.
A morose young plumber with serious rage issues, Jack (Trevor Matthews) attends counseling to process his tragic past and night school to please his high-maintenance girlfriend (Rachel Skarsten). But when his science teacher (a hilarious Robert Englund) transforms into a cross between the centerpiece of ''Slither'' and Jabba the Hutt, Jack becomes the only barrier to the thing's decidedly nonvegan eating preferences. Like a blue-collar Indiana Jones, Jack has discovered his destiny -- and the unimagined utility of a well-stocked tool belt.
Rejecting computer-generated effects in favor of old-school prosthetics and bang-crash-wallop stunts, Jon Knautz directs with more love for physical comedy than for snappy one-liners. The movie's real pleasures -- aside from a cyclops that would not have shamed Ray Harryhausen -- owe less to latex than to the honed talents of veteran performers like Mr. Englund and David Fox, whose too-brief appearance as a decrepit hardware-store clerk almost steals the movie.
Better-looking than most of its B-movie brethren, ''Jack Brooks: Monster Slayer'' is an object lesson in constructively channeled anger and the indispensability of duct tape. Home Depot should totally finance a sequel. JEANNETTE CATSOULIS ''Jack Brooks: Monster Slayer'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). Guts, gore and general grossness.
FLY ME TO THE MOON
Opens on Friday nationwide.
Directed by Ben Stassen
1 hour 30 minutes; rated G
Parents wishing to stupefy their youngest children for an hour and a half might consider plopping them in front of ''Fly Me to the Moon'' -- but only if a fourth viewing of ''Wall-E'' or a second trip to ''Space Chimps'' or a really bright flashlight shining in their eyes is completely out of the question.
''Fly Me to the Moon'' bills itself as the first animated feature created expressly for 3-D. As these things go, this one goes well enough: the 3-D effects are sophisticated and incorporated into the overall design of the picture rather than trumpeted by random, poke-in-the-eye flourishes, although the movie does have an annoying habit of sneezing and burping in your face.
Still, too bad it wasn't created expressly for, you know, pleasure or art.
Written by Domonic Paris and directed by Ben Stassen, the film involves a threesome of Florida houseflies stowing away on Apollo 11. One of the most undermotivated plots in many a moon, the zero-wit, zero-gravity misadventures of Nat (the voice of Trevor Gagnon), I.Q. (Philip Daniel Bolden) and Scooter (David Gore) are embarked on merely because they're bored on their garbage dump.
Hey, me too! NATHAN LEE
ONE BAD CAT
The Reverend Albert Wagner Story
Opens on Friday in Manhattan.
Directed by Thomas G. Miller
1 hour 21 minutes; not rated
For the first 50 years of his life, Albert Wagner led an unexceptional, if rather disreputable, existence. He put together a living in a working-class neighborhood of Cleveland, drank to excess and womanized with abandon, siring 16 children with his wife and several more with two mistresses.
One of these women had a daughter from a previous marriage whom Mr. Wagner molested. He was arrested, spent five days in jail and, as he tells it in ''One Bad Cat: The Reverend Albert Wagner Story,'' found himself in his basement one night contemplating the course of his life -- and a paint stain on a scrap of wood.
He felt the presence of God within and began to paint his fears and loves: scenes of broken families, lynchings, Biblical tableaus, naked women, dissolute men. Continuing at a prodigious pace, Mr. Wagner, who died in 2006, set aside his vices and amassed a houseful of raw, startling images, as well as a growing reputation as an important folk artist.
Directed by Thomas G. Miller, ''One Bad Cat'' brings fresh light to the artist profile not only through his choice of subject, but also by his direct confrontation with the discomforting nature of Mr. Wagner's work and the cultural complexities entailed when a poor black naif is celebrated and collected by well-to-do whites. NATHAN LEE BLITZKRIEG
Escape From Stalag 69
Opens on Friday in Manhattan.
Directed by Keith J. Crocker
2 hours; not rated
Let's go ahead and get this out of the way because I'm sure you're dying to know: no, you shouldn't see ''Blitzkrieg: Escape From Stalag 69.'' This isn't a question of genre, per se. You should see ''Ilsa, She Wolf of the SS,'' the notorious sleazefest now considered a touchstone of the Nazisploitation craze of the 1970s. At least if you're into that sort of thing.
Written and directed by Keith J. Crocker, ''Blitzkrieg'' pays homage to this dubious subgenre -- but really, who cares? (Aside from Quentin Tarantino.) The problem here isn't flagrant nudity, excessive violence and desultory filmmaking so much as the context for such grindhouse delights.
When will the sexploitation auteurs of America realize that there are fresher, more contemporary settings for tasteless movies predicated on torture and sexual humiliation? When will some no-budget visionary round up his friends and descend to the basement with his video camera and the script for ''Jihad! Escape From Abu Ghraib''?
Meanwhile, here we are stuck in a backyard production about a Nazi sadist named Helmut Schultz (Charles Esser) who does icky things to a multinational cast of naked women. Despite one or two memorable castrations and a droll bit of ethnic burlesque involving a black woman who trash-talks her captors, ''Blitzkrieg'' is short on camp pleasure and long -- at two hours, very long -- on everything else. NATHAN LEE
APOLOGY OF AN ECONOMIC HIT MAN
Opens on Friday in Manhattan.
Directed by Stelios Koul
1 hour 30 minutes; not rated
John Perkins, the focus of Stelios Koul's overheated documentary ''Apology of an Economic Hit Man'' and a rising star among liberal political commentators, has less satirical wit than Michael Moore and less intellectual authority than Noam Chomsky. What he has instead is a propensity for melodrama.
Mr. Perkins, who says he was screened by the National Security Agency before being hired by the strategic-consulting firm Chas. T. Main in Boston, talks about a United States ''corporatocracy'' that assassinates South American leaders and, through the World Bank, exploits developing nations with unfair lending practices. The film, which almost shares a title with his best seller, ''Confessions of an Economic Hit Man,'' derives its name from its central scene, a public appearance of the author before an angry audience in Quito, Ecuador.
With a few other talking heads -- all of similar political disposition -- the film drops some intriguing facts. And its stinging portrait of the crowd in Quito bristling at American policy is arresting.
But the film is undone by bargain-basement, noir-style re-enactments; a foreboding, over-the-top soundtrack; and a wholesale abandonment of any semblance of balance. There is a great documentary waiting to be made about the levers of control with which South American nations are kept impoverished. This, unfortunately, isn't it. ANDY WEBSTER
SINGH IS KINNG
Opened last Friday in Manhattan.
Directed by Anees Bazmee
In Hindi, with English subtitles
2 hours 35 minutes; not rated
This hyped-up action comedy, which bounces from Punjab to Egypt to Australia, broke box-office records when it opened in India last week. Its appeal has everything to do with its star, Akshay Kumar, who plays Happy Singh, a bumbling villager (''I'm an illiterate fool!'' he says at one point), sent off into the world with nothing but his good intentions.
''Singh Is Kinng'' isn't a great movie. There are too many sloppy action sequences, the humor's too broad, the storytelling lackluster. But the immensely likable Mr. Kumar shines as a Capraesque hero who spreads bedrock Indian values -- honor your mother, help the poor -- by example, most conspicuously as the accidental leader of a feared crime gang in Australia.
Happy and the gang are Sikhs, but, as a disclaimer states, ''This is not a religious film.'' It's a Bollywood film, and that means visions of communal harmony, untiring exuberance and, of course, song-and-dance numbers. One takes place amid Egyptian ruins, with miniskirted dancers no less.
And at the end there's a remix of the title song, featuring Snoop Dogg hanging out with Mr. Kumar and rapping (''Watch me zoom by, make it boom by/Whaddup to all the ladies hanging out in Mumbai''). Bollywood crossover dreams, anybody? RACHEL SALTZ

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Akshay Kumar in the action comedy ''Singh Is Kinng.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY INDIAN FILMS)
The insect adventurers of the 3-D ''Fly Me to the Moon.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUMMIT ENTERTAINMENT)
The star of ''One Bad Cat: The Reverend Albert Wagner Story.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ABE FRAJNDLICH/TESSERACT FILMS)
 Anakin Skywalker, left, and sidekick in the animated feature ''Star Wars: The Clone Wars.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCASFILM/WARNER BROTHERS PICTURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMATION (90%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (78%); ANIMATED TELEVISION (77%); FILM (77%); MOVIE RATINGS (76%); CONTENT RATINGS (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (71%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (60%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE LUCAS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2011



374 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: 2 Banks Agree to a Buyback Of $7 Billion in Securities

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Two banks, JPMorgan Chase and Morgan Stanley, on Thursday became the latest banks to reach settlements with the New York attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, and other regulators as part of an investigation into the collapse of the auction-rate securities market. 
 The pair of banks will repurchase a combined $7 billion of the troubled securities from investors. Morgan Stanley agreed to pay a fine of $35 million, while JPMorgan will pay a fine of $25 million.
 JPMorgan and Morgan Stanley are the third and fourth to reach settlements, after deals by UBS and Citigroup last week. Regulators continue to investigate other banks as well.
 Mr. Cuomo said his office continued to discuss settlements with additional banks that had sold the securities.
 Mr. Cuomo's office, the Securities and Exchange Commission and other state regulators reached settlements that required the Swiss bank UBS to repurchase $18.6 billion in the securities, while Citigroup agreed to buy back $7 billion of the securities. UBS will also pay a fine of $150 million, while Citigroup will pay a $100 million fine.
 The $330 billion auction-rate securities market involved the buying and selling of instruments that resembled corporate debt, except that the interest rates were reset at regular auctions, some as frequently as once a week. Several companies and retail clients invested in the securities because they could treat their holdings almost like cash.
 The bondlike investments were widely held by many institutional and individual investors and were seen as highly liquid, similar to money market investments. However, the market for them collapsed in February amid the downturn in the broader credit markets.
 Regulators have been investigating the collapse in the market to determine who was responsible for its demise and whether banks knowingly misrepresented the safety of the securities when selling them to investors.
 As with last week's settlements, JPMorgan and Morgan Stanley agreed to repurchase the securities and will reimburse customers who had sold their securities at a loss after the market collapsed.
 JPMorgan will repurchase all securities it sold to retail customers, charities and small to midsize businesses by Nov. 12. JPMorgan will also buy back any securities sold by Bear Stearns, which it acquired this year.
 Morgan Stanley will repurchase the securities from similar groups by Dec. 11.
 The $60 million in fines will be distributed to states based on the amount of securities sold to investors in each state. In the previous settlements with UBS and Citigroup, New York received half the fines and the rest was distributed among other states.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINES & PENALTIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); UBS AG (85%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); UBSN (SWX) (85%); UBS (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2008



375 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: For Deliveries, Speed Not Quite of the Essence

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
HIGH fuel prices and a sluggish economy have taken a toll on overnight delivery services, forcing some significant shifts in how the biggest operators do business. DHL Express, the country's third-biggest overnight deliverer, recently hired a rival, United Parcel Service, to handle its air cargo operations in the United States. 
 While its global business is profitable, the American segment of DHL, acquired in 2002 by Deutsche Post of Germany, is expected to lose $1.3 billion this year. 
 In an interview from DHL's American headquarters in Plantation, Fla., its chief executive, John P. Mullen, discussed the deal with U.P.S.
 Q.What factors drove you to make a deal with U.P.S.?
 A. The cost of maintaining our network in the United States has been very painful to us, and it's been exacerbated by the increasing fuel costs. Under the arrangement with U.P.S., if our volume should continue to fall, our costs fall with it. And we have 110 aircraft in the United States, a lot of which are quite old and will need replacement in the coming years. So we avoid that capital expenditure. 
 Q.What kind of impact have fuel costs had?
 A. Very considerable. First, the straight cost burden, and our fuel surcharge does not cover all of it. But more importantly, it starts changing a customer's behavior. When you say there's a surcharge of 5 percent or 10 percent, they read the newspapers and they know fuel is going up. But when you start talking 30 percent and up, which is what we've got at the moment, the customer starts saying: ''Well, do I really need the package there tomorrow morning at 10:30?'' 
 Q.Has that translated into less demand for air service?
 A. We're seeing that customers are downgrading their service expectations, from air to ground. And once customers change, it's pretty hard to get them to come back again. And even if fuel prices were to come down significantly, we're not sure customers would revert to urgent air express. Our whole industry is going to have to adjust because, while it may not be tomorrow, we're going to see huge amounts of our revenue migrate to ground and other forms of transport.
 Q.By outsourcing your air cargo services to a rival, where does that leave the company? What is the business model now -- more ground and less air?
 A. Our business model hasn't changed. We're still picking up the package, we're still delivering it. But instead of giving it to one operator who is flying just for us, we're giving it to U.P.S., which, although it is a competitor, is just a service provider. The customers wouldn't actually know whether we used U.P.S. or someone else for the air segment.
 Q.What was the price of this deal?
 A. U.P.S. will charge us about a billion dollars a year to move our material. Our savings, taking into account other restructuring, including closing 30 percent of our ground stations in the United States, will save us about a billion dollars a year.
 Q.How many jobs will you be cutting?
 A. We're cutting 1,500 to 1,800 of our own employees, including some at our air hub in Wilmington, Ohio. And these changes will have an impact on our suppliers, which will mean several thousand more jobs will be affected. Our cuts will come in smaller towns, and we'll close stations where there are several in the same area.
 Q.What percentage of your business will be affected by these changes?
 A. We're estimating that these changes, while they sound fairly large, will only have an impact on about 4 percent of our shipments. In other words, 4 percent of our shipments will go from early morning delivery to maybe afternoon delivery. We'll still be delivering them, but they will be slightly slower than before, but only a small percent.
 Q.How does this affect the general landscape in the United States for deliveries?
 A. It shouldn't make any appreciable difference, and while the deal should make us both more productive, we remain full-tilt competitors. In the rest of the world, in Europe, Asia and emerging economies -- where we are in a much stronger position -- we are trying to make life as difficult as possible for them.
 Q.How much of a decline in daily package volume have you seen because of the economy slumping?
 A. Some customers are not sending altogether. But most are trying to find a cheaper way, such as sending it by ground. We've got the double impact right now of fuel costs and the economic recession because we carry an awful lot of mortgage documents, contracts and so on, and that side of our business is very significantly under pressure. Air express overnight volumes in the industry are down anywhere from 5 percent to 15 percent from this time last year. 
 Q.When will the new arrangement go into effect?
 A. We hope to have a completed agreement with U.P.S. in a couple of months, and we would start to migrate volume across. We would like to see it all in place by mid- to late 2009. But at the end of the year, our busiest season since stores and other parts of industry are ramping up, we will slacken off and try not to make too many changes until the new year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John P. Mullen (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN DRAKE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (90%); AIR FREIGHT (89%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (78%); AIRLINES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); EXECUTIVES (55%); AIR SERVICE (50%)

COMPANY: DHL VERWALTUNGS GMBH (93%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (58%); DEUTSCHE POST AG (57%)

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (58%); DPW (FRA) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (93%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (93%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (58%); NAICS491110 POSTAL SERVICE (57%); SIC4215 COURIER SERVICES EX. BY AIR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2008



376 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Over There, U.S. Goods Ride a Weak-Dollar Wave

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Read Floyd Norris's blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
AMERICAN exports are rising at the most rapid rate in decades, helped by a weaker dollar and by rising prices of food sent overseas.
 The trade figures for June, released this week, showed that the dollar value of total exports was running at a pace 19.2 percent higher than it was last year. Not since 1988, another year when exports were helped by a falling dollar, have exports grown so quickly. 
 Those figures are not adjusted for inflation, and the real increase is undoubtedly smaller given the rapid rise in the price of grains. But the increase is nonetheless substantial, as is shown in the accompanying chart.
 Imports are also growing, however, despite expectations that the weakening American economy would slow them down. Expressed in dollars, imports in the three months through June were 14.1 percent higher than in the same period of 2007, and the trade deficit was 6.6 percent higher.
 Nonetheless, there are signs of a slowing economy in the figures. Imports of oil and petroleum products soared 57.3 percent when measured in dollars. But imports of crude oil, measured in barrels of oil rather than in dollars, were 5.8 percent lower than in the same period of 2007.
 Nonpetroleum imports were up 5.6 percent in dollars, a gain that may not be much greater than inflation.
 The growth of American exports was spread around the world, with some of the largest gains coming in sales to Latin American countries. 
 Exports to Brazil were up 43 percent, while those to Argentina leaped 65 percent and Colombian exports climbed 42 percent. But exports to Venezuela climbed just 10 percent.
 Exports to Asia tended to rise slower than exports to most of the world. Those to China, which is the largest customer for American goods after Canada and Mexico, rose almost 18 percent. The rate of gain in those exports has been coming down, however, after being close to 30 percent a few months ago.
 Japan, which was passed by China as an export destination only last year, produced a 10 percent gain, as did Korea.
 Exports to all of Europe were up 20 percent, about the same as exports to the 15 countries that use the euro currency. 
 That move reflects the power of a weak currency to make exports more competitive. In 2001 and 2002, when one dollar was worth more than one euro, American exports to countries in the euro zone were falling. By June, however, two euros could buy three dollars.
 Exports to Russia, its coffers swelled by the high price of oil, are growing at an annual rate of about 40 percent, just a little below the booming 43 percent gain in exports to India.
 Whether the United States can maintain that export growth if much of Europe slides into recession, as some expect, is doubtful. But for now, the combination of a weak dollar and a strong world economy has allowed America to sell much more than before.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Change in U.S. exports: Year-over-year change, three-month moving average
 Share and growth of U.S. exports: Figures on export growth are based on annual change in three-month moving averages of the dollar value of exports, and are not adjusted for inflation. Mexico is counted as part of North America. The Pacific Rim includes Australia, Brunei, China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Macao, Malaysia, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, the Philippines, Singapore and Taiwan. Figures on share of American exports are based on most recent 12 months.(Source: Census Bureau, via Haver Analytics)Charts detail line and bar graphs for Share and growth of U.S. exports. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (93%); IMPORT TRADE (91%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); EURO (87%); FOOD PRICES (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EURO ZONE (71%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); CHINA (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); JAPAN (92%); MEXICO (92%); HONG KONG (79%); TAIWAN (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); PAPUA NEW GUINEA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); ASIA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); MACAO (79%); INDIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); CANADA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2008



377 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Florida Officials See Added Hurricane Threat: Not Enough Fear

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE and YOLANNE ALMANZAR

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
The hurricanes are coming. Carlos Alvarez, mayor of Miami-Dade County, cannot say when or how severe they will be, but every public speech he gives now includes a warning. 
 ''Hurricanes are part of our lives,'' he tells people, adding: ''Every time you get groceries, add a few extra cans. Have some jugs to fill up with water.''
 For many, though, the message has yet to register. 
 Florida's faltering economy and a recent scarcity of major storms have led to what emergency management officials now describe as a dangerous level of complacency. More than two months into hurricane season, and even as Tropical Storm Fay formed on Friday over the Dominican Republic and headed west, Floridians on both coasts are less prepared to withstand a major storm than at any other time in years, according to officials, business owners and residents. 
 Further, a Harvard study last month identified a significant post-Katrina distrust of shelters, with about a quarter of people surveyed in coastal areas in eight states planning to stay home if a hurricane hits. 
 ''Officials tell us that they are really quite worried about people who would not cooperate, who are not aware of what was about to happen,'' said Robert Blendon, director of the Harvard report. ''And just thinking of the mobile homes, if people stay and they really are blown all over, public officials, ambulance services, Red Cross units have to go find these people and provide them with support and services.''
 The public cost could be significant. Miami-Dade County has spent $250 million in local, state and federal money cleaning up from the hurricanes of 2005, Katrina and Wilma, and officials say that when people are unprepared, the expense rises substantially.
 That is partly what worries Larry Gispert, director of the emergency management office for Hillsborough County, on the Gulf Coast. Mr. Gispert says the questions he has received at preparedness seminars this year -- like ''When is the next hurricane coming to Tampa?'' -- show that residents are woefully uninformed. 
 ''My concern is that they will get the religion at the very last moment,'' he said. ''Then they want everybody to help them at the very last moment, and that's what we cannot do.''
 Many officials attribute the lack of preparedness in part to a stroke of good luck: no major storms have hit Florida since 2005. As a result, Mr. Gispert said, ''there is hurricane amnesia.''
 ''It's human nature,'' Mayor Alvarez said. ''After a couple of years of nothing, you start to say, 'It can't hit us.' ''
 But the economy has also played a role. Florida's unemployment rate reached 6.1 percent in July, its highest level since 1995. And even for those working, the cost of extra food, water, gas and other supplies can be too much. 
 Cheth Thach, 23, the manager of a nail salon in the southern Miami-Dade city of Homestead, says routine expenses have become his main priority. Over the last six years, Mr. Thach says, he has spent roughly $2,000 in advance of hurricanes, on food and equipment, including shutters for his home. This year he has yet to spend a nickel. 
 ''Financially, it's kind of tough to buy everything,'' he said. ''You work, and there's no money.''
 Officials are also battling people's heightened aversion to shelters and an overconfidence in the strength of their homes. The Harvard survey published last month polled residents in towns 20 miles from the coast. It found that roughly a quarter did not plan to leave at the approach of a major storm, fearing theft at their homes if they did, as well as violence on the roads or in shelters, similar to what happened in Louisiana after Hurricane Katrina. 
 ''I think for a lot of people's minds the pictures are still there of the worst conditions that they saw in New Orleans, and that affects their willingness to go somewhere,'' said Mr. Blendon, a professor at the Harvard School of Public Health. 
 In Florida, tightened building codes have given people more faith in their homes.
 Albert Eiras of Miami has experienced some of the worst storms in Florida's history, including Hurricane Andrew in 1992. For many, says Mr. Eiras, 37, that was a turning point.
 ''Then,'' he said, ''everybody was scared. They took it more seriously. But now, depending on the category, people won't take it seriously. You live in the Keys, they probably won't even board up. And a lot of that has to do with Andrew. People's mentality is, 'If I survived Andrew, I can survive anything.' ''
 On Aug. 7, scientists with the National Hurricane Center predicted that there would be 14 to 18 named storms this season, including 7 to 10 hurricanes, as many as six of which could be at least Category 3, meaning sustained winds above 110 miles per hour. 
 That was up from the May outlook, which forecast 12 to 16 storms for the season -- June 1 through Nov. 30 -- including six to nine hurricanes, with five possibly reaching Category 3 status. 
 Mayor Alvarez said that even a Category 1 hurricane, meaning winds of no more than 95 m.p.h., could cause damage in the tens of millions of dollars.
 Mr. Eiras agreed that it was best to err on the side of caution.
 ''There are people who think, 'I prepared last year,' '' he said. '' 'I spent so much money and nothing happened.' But you just never know.''
 Then, giving it some thought, he said he still needed to make sure he himself was ready.
 ''I would probably have to double-check the batteries and see if I have enough canned food and water,'' he said. ''Do I have enough supply to last me?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A dangerous level of complacency appears to have overtaken Floridians despite destruction like that wrought by Hurricane Charley in Punta Gorda, Fla., in 2004.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB CROSLIN/ST. PETERSBURG TIMES, VIA REUTERS)
 Carlos Alvarez, left, mayor of Miami-Dade County, says people need to prepare for a big storm. But Cheth Thach, who once did so routinely, says many can no longer afford the expense. Given the economy, he said, ''it's kind of tough to buy everything.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY OSCAR HIDALGO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (91%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); COASTAL AREAS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (99%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2008



378 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: Coventry Defends Backstroke Title; Evans's Record in 800 Is Smashed

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
With the wider world waiting for Michael Phelps to dive in and go for his seventh gold medal, a small block of fans wearing ''Team Coventry'' T-shirts had another priority in the Water Cube on Saturday.
 They wanted one gold medal in Beijing from Zimbabwe's expatriate hero, Kirsty Coventry. She already had finished second on three occasions in this fast pool, but she was the favorite in the 200-meter backstroke, and she did not let herself or her troubled nation down. 
 Although the American Margaret Hoelzer surfaced first after the start, Coventry, with her slightly faster stroke rate, took the lead by the end of the first lap and never surrendered it.
 She successfully defended her Olympic title in a world record time of 2 minutes 5.24 seconds, the 22nd swimming world record at these Olympics.
 There would soon be a 23rd, as the British teenager Rebecca Adlington took out the oldest major mark in the sport: Janet Evans's record in the women's 800. Evans was a teenaged phenom herself when she established that mark of 8:16.22 in 1989 in Tokyo.
 It had stood for nearly 20 years, resisting the new wave of talent, helped along by technology in the form of bodysuits and by new training methods. But even Evans could not resist the speedy trend in the Water Cube, as Adlington, 19, won her second gold medal of these Games by finishing in 8:14.10. Along the way, she established herself as one of the favorites for the next Olympics.
 It is safe to say that Coventry will never have the pleasure of swimming in an Olympics in her home country. Zimbabwe is in turmoil economically and politically, with galloping inflation and unrest under President Robert Mugabe.
 But Coventry's performances in the pool have been a steady source of good news for Zimbabwe. She won a gold, a silver and a bronze at the Athens Olympics in 2004. She has increased her career Olympic medal count to seven with her gold in the 200 backstroke and silver medals in the 100 backstroke and the 200 and 400 individual medleys.
 ''She's having an amazing meet, and I'm certainly impressed,'' said Hoelzer, who was second in 2:06.23 in the 200 backstroke. ''I don't know if I could swim that many events. In 2004, it was the same thing. I know she had an amazing homecoming when she did go back home. I think in a situation like that, you have to be happy for somebody.
 ''If they can unite the country for even one day, that's impressive. And I wish more of us could have an impact like that on something in the world.''
 Coventry left Zimbabwe in 2002 to attend Auburn University; she is still based in the United States. Her efforts alone here have Zimbabwe in fifth place in the swimming medal standings, behind the United States, Australia, Japan and China.
 Reiko Nakamura of Japan took the bronze medal in the 200 in a time of 2:07.13. Elizabeth Beisel, the 15-year-old American, was fifth in 2:08.23.
 In the men's 50, Cesar Cielo Filho of Brazil pulled off a mild surprise, taking the gold in 21.30 ahead of the pre-Olympic favorites. Amaury Leveaux of France won the silver in 21.45 and his compatriot Alain Bernard won the bronze in 21.49. The defending world champion, Benjamin Wildman-Tobriner of the United States, was fifth, with the world-record holder Eamon Sullivan of Australia in sixth.
 The American Dara Torres qualified first in the second heat of the women's 50 freestyle, with a time of 24.27 seconds. The final is Sunday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Zimbabwe's Kirsty Coventry won the 200-meter backstroke in 2 minutes 5.24 seconds, another world record.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS AWARDS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); SWIMMING (89%); SPORTS (89%)

PERSON: MICHAEL PHELPS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (55%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (93%); ZIMBABWE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); GREECE (56%); JAPAN (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2008



379 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: STOCKS & BONDS Shares Rise Modestly On Lower Commodities

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
The dollar's rapid rebound set off an across-the-board plunge in commodity prices on Friday, with gold falling below $800 an ounce to a 10-month low and oil briefly trading as low as $111 a barrel.
 The cooling-off in the raw materials market helped Wall Street advance, sending shares up modestly among telecommunications companies and businesses that depend on consumer spending. The Dow Jones industrial average rose almost 44 points, to 11,659.90, and the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 0.4 percent, to 1,298.20. 
 The Nasdaq composite index fell 1.15 points, to 2,452.52.
 For the week, the Dow finished down 0.63 percent and the S.& P. edged up 0.15 percent. Despite Friday's loss, the Nasdaq recorded its fifth consecutive weekly gain, up 1.59 percent for a five-week gain of 8.5 percent.
 Lower prices for energy, wheat, corn and precious metals could help ease some of the cost pressures facing Americans, who are struggling to cope with the fastest-rising inflation rate in 17 years. 
 Oil finished on Friday at $113.77 a barrel, slipping $1.24 in New York trading. The price of crude oil has dropped nearly 25 percent in a month. 
 Lower commodity prices stem from the run-up in the dollar, which started a comeback against foreign currencies last week. Investors like to use raw materials as a hedge against American currency, so commodity prices tend to move in the opposite direction of the dollar.
 By Friday, the dollar reached a six-month high against the euro. Data released this week showed a European economy that was much weaker than previously thought. The European Union said that its economy shrank 0.2 percent last quarter, the first overall decline since the recession of the early 1990s. 
 The euro traded at $1.4672 on Friday, down about 1 percent, and the dollar rose against the British pound, the Canadian dollar and the yen.
 Fears of a world economic slowdown are helping tamp down the price of oil, as investors brace for a drop-off in demand. 
 A widely watched index of the major raw materials, created by the Commodity Research Bureau in Chicago, has fallen 19.3 percent since July 2. That means the commodity market is fast approaching bear territory, formally defined as a 20 percent drop from a high.
 Gold, silver and platinum all fell again on Friday. Gold prices have declined in 8 of the last 10 trading sessions and are sharply off their record of above $1,000 an ounce in March. Gold traded at $792.10 a troy ounce, its lowest level since last October.
 Corn and wheat each fell almost 5 percent, while cocoa, coffee, cotton and sugar also declined for the day. 
 While falling oil prices have tended to bolster most stocks, shares of energy companies were hurt on Friday. Chevron, the oil giant and a Dow component, fell $1.68, about 2 percent, to $84.25 a share. Exxon Mobil slipped 38 cents, or 0.5 percent, to $77.07. General Motors, the big automaker, fell 17 cents, or 1.5 percent, to $11.18 a share.
 Shares of J. C. Penney, the midtier retailer, rose $3.11 a share, or more than 8 percent, to $39.94, despite reporting a painful 36 percent decline in profit for last quarter. But the company's earnings of 52 cents a share beat Wall Street's estimates by 2 cents. (About two-thirds of all companies beat analyst's earnings estimates in any given quarter.)
 Shares of MBIA and Ambac, the troubled reinsurers, rebounded after a major ratings agency, Standard & Poor's, said it had regained some confidence in the companies' credit. MBIA shares were up nearly 9 percent, and Ambac rose about 25 percent.
 The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 13/32, to 101 11/32. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, fell to 3.84 percent, from 3.89 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: On the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, as the rebounding dollar sent commodities down.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) CHART: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Chart details line graph for daily activity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); METALS MARKETS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); CORN MARKETS (90%); COTTON MARKETS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); SUGAR MARKETS (89%); PLATINUM MARKETS (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); EURO (86%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); INFLATION (78%); RECESSION (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); BRITISH POUND (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2008



380 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: Industrial Output for July Slightly Exceeded Forecast

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
Industrial production, a measure of the volume of goods produced in the United States, slightly topped expectations in July, a bit of positive news for an economy buffeted by inflation and higher costs.
 In a report released Friday, the Federal Reserve said that industrial production grew 0.2 percent over the previous month. Economists had expected production to be flat. 
 ''People were looking for bad news and didn't get it,'' the chairman of the private investment firm Holland & Company, Michael Holland, said. ''The increase was small, but the prediction direction was flat to down.'' 
 July's increase was largely driven by a 3.6 percent rise in the production of motor vehicles and parts. The automotive production number has increased in both of the last two months most likely not because of sales -- which are at record lows -- but because production had been unusually low because of a strike at an auto parts supplier, American Axle. Economists expect that production will slow down again in response to dismal demand. 
 ''For future months, we know automotive production is going to fall,'' said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at the financial research firm Global Insight.
 The manufacturing front also showed the largest monthly increase in many months.
 In other economic news released Friday, the Empire State Manufacturing Survey showed a modest increase to 2.77 points in August from a minus 4.9 points in July, its highest level since January. In the survey, zero serves as the divide between growth and contraction. 
 The manufacturing increases in both reports are probably tied to exports, which grew in the second quarter in the face of a weak dollar.
 ''To the extent that exports are helping to boost industrial production, that boost might be short-lived given some indications of slowdown in global growth,'' said Jared Bernstein, an economist at the labor-oriented Economics Policy Institute. The firming of the dollar may also take a toll on exports in coming months, economists said.
 In the other major industry groups in the industrial output report, mining grew slightly less than a percentage point, and utility production fell 1.9 percent in July. 
 ''Utilities was one of the drags in industrial production,'' said Beth Ann Bovino, senior economist at Standard & Poor's. ''But in a sense, that's a good thing. We had better weather so people used less energy.''
 While the industrial production figure is not a major market mover, it is considered a good measure of the health of the economy because it reacts relatively quickly to changes in the business cycle; businesses can make decisions about how many paper clips to produce more easily than how many workers to lay off, for example. The amount of goods produced also has a close relationship to growth in gross domestic product.
 Friday's release also showed capacity utilization rates, a measure of how much companies are producing compared with the maximum amount of goods they could produce if they were running full steam. In July, the figure edged up slightly by 0.1 percent to 79.9 percent -- companies were producing at a higher level -- but the figure was still 1.1 percentage points below its average from 1972 to 2007. 
 ''If you look at the history of where capacity utilization is in a recession, it's usually down in the low 70s, so you could argue that the numbers in this report, taken broadly, are not flashing recession,'' Mr. Bernstein said. But, he said, the other three of the four ''headless horsemen'' -- real income, employment, industrial production and wholesale-retail sales -- that the National Bureau of Economic Research watches to determine whether a recession is taking place are still doing poorly. 
 ''Three out of the four are pretty clearly flashing recession, so if someone wants to up-weight this one it sounds like cherry-picking,'' he said.
 The Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment survey, a measure of how Americans feel about the economy, was also released on Friday. The preliminary August number crept up to 61.7 from 61.2 in July, hovering at about the level economists had expected. The index is still low compared with historical levels. 
 ''Consumer sentiment suggests we are in one of the worst episodes in the last 30 years,'' said Ken Matheny, senior economist at Macroeconomic Advisers. ''If it's so bad, why are we not in a deep, deep recession?'' He argues that today's consumer sentiment levels are distorted by faulty memories.
 ''Probably many of these people weren't of age in the 1970s to be able to remember what it was like and compare it to today,'' he said.
 Going forward, analysts say the economy will probably continue to be sluggish for months, and that consumers' pessimism and shrinking pocketbooks may affect future production levels. Mr. Matheny predicts that consumer spending will decline over the rest of the year as the boost from federal tax rebates erodes and high gas and food prices continue to overtake wages. Like Mr. Gault, Ms. Bovino and others, he expects the auto industry to take an especially big hit. 
 ''There are some tantalizing little hints from the fundamentals that maybe the economy isn't falling completely out of bed,'' said Mr. Matheny. ''Still there's plenty to be watchful about with respect to the consumer.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Con Edison plant in New York City. Utility production was a drag on output, indicating a reduction in energy use.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) CHARTS: Industrial Production: Index of total industrial production, 2002 = 100, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Federal Reserve) Chart details line graph for May, June and July.
 Capacity Utilization: Total industrial output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Federal Reserve) Chart details bar graph for May, June and July. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); MINING OUTPUT (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (69%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2008



381 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: Oil Declines Along With the Dollar

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
The rapid rebound of the dollar has led to an across-the-board plunge in commodity prices, with gold falling to a 10-month low and oil extending a decline. 
 The cooling off in the raw materials market helped Wall Street stocks advance on Friday, as shares rose modestly among businesses that depend on consumer spending. The Dow Jones industrial average was up about 40 points and the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 0.39 percent.
 Investors may be hoping that lower prices for energy, wheat, corn and precious metals will ease some of the cost pressures facing Americans, who are struggling to cope with the fastest inflation rate in 17 years. 
 Oil finished on Friday at $113.77 a barrel, slipping $1.24. Earlier in the day, crude futures traded as low as $111 a barrel. 
 Lower commodity prices have been a result of the run-up in the dollar, which started a comeback against foreign currencies last week. Investors like to use raw materials as a hedge against the American currency, so commodity prices tend to move in the opposite direction of the dollar.
 By Friday, the dollar was at a six-month high against the euro. Data released this week showed a European economy that was much weaker than previously thought; the European Union said that its economy shrank 0.2 percent last quarter, the first overall decline since the recessionary era of the early 1990s. The slowdown has put additional pressure on the European Central Bank to raise its benchmark interest rate, which could further devalue the euro. 
 The euro was at $1.4675 on Friday, down about 1 percent, and the dollar rose against the British pound, the Canadian dollar, and the yen.
 Fears of a world economic slowdown are helping tamp down the price of oil, as investors brace for a drop-off in demand. Crude oil futures have fallen 23 percent from their record high, set last month, and traded on Friday near a four-month low. 
 A widely watched index of the major raw materials, created by the Commodity Research Bureau in Chicago, has fallen more than 17 percent since July 2. That means the commodity market is fast approaching bear territory, formally defined as a 20 percent drop from a high.
 Gold, silver and platinum all fell again on Friday. Gold prices have declined in 9 of 10 sessions in August and are off nearly 20 percent from their record of above $1,000 an ounce in March. Gold was trading at $793.50 a Troy ounce, its lowest level since last fall.
 While a drop in oil prices has tended to boost stocks, shares of energy companies were hurt on Friday. Chevron, the oil giant and Dow component, lost 2.4 percent to $83.90 a share, and Exxon Mobil slipped 0.4 percent. 
 Shares of J. C. Penney, the mid-tier retailer, rose almost 8 percent to $39.80 after the company reported a painful 36 percent decline in profit for last quarter. But the company's earnings of 52 cents a share beat Wall Street's estimates by 2 cents. (About two-thirds of all companies beat analyst's earnings estimates in any given quarter.)
 Shares of MBIA and Ambac, the troubled reinsurers, rebounded after a major ratings agency said it has regained some confidence in the companies' credit. MBIA shares were up 9 percent and Ambac was trading up 29 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); METALS MARKETS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); CORN MARKETS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); EURO (89%); FUTURES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PLATINUM MARKETS (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); INFLATION (78%); RECESSION (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (74%); DEVALUATION (73%); RETAILERS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); BRITISH POUND (67%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (82%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2008



382 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: How About The Home Front?

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
It's fair to say that America's mayors are not thrilled with the way the presidential campaign has unfolded so far.
 Domestic issues? An urban agenda? Rebuilding the nation's aging infrastructure?
 They haven't drawn nearly as much attention as the two favorite topics in this campaign: foolishness and foreign affairs. We've had dueling ads over which candidate is the bigger celebrity; an obsession with a New Yorker magazine cover; in-depth analyses of the Obamas' fist-bumping moment; the requisite introduction of Britney Spears and Paris Hilton into a conversation that should be geared toward adults, and so on.
 We've also had a more or less serious focus on the war in Iraq and a handful of other international matters. 
 What we haven't had is a deep exploration of problems here at home that are threatening the very vibrancy of the nation, including: the dismal employment picture (there are many more Americans out of work than the official statistics show); the terrible toll that the housing and mortgage crisis is taking on families from one coast to the other; the tens of millions of Americans who are without health insurance coverage; the stunning high school dropout numbers; and a demoralizing problem with violent crime in several parts of the country.
 (City officials in Hartford have become so frustrated with the violence plaguing their city that they've imposed a 30-day 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. curfew for everyone 18 and under. Curfews are constitutionally dubious and unlikely to work, but when nothing seems to stop the gunfire, and you end up with a 17-month-old girl and a 7-year-old boy among the wounded, a sense of desperation sets in.)
 This was the campaign that was supposed to chart a dramatic new direction for the U.S., away from the disastrous policies of the past several years -- at home as well as abroad.
 We're still waiting.
 Manny Diaz, the mayor of Miami and president of the U.S. Conference of Mayors, has been harshly critical of the federal government's failure to address the most serious needs of the nation's cities and metropolitan areas. In a talk at the National Press Club early this month, he said that Washington had ''lost its values, lost its principles,'' and given up on investing in the cities and their people.
 ''Washington,'' he said, ''has abandoned us.''
 I sat in on a meeting Thursday as Mr. Diaz and several other mayors, including Michael Bloomberg of New York, met in Manhattan to discuss ways of getting the federal government involved in large-scale infrastructure and transportation initiatives. The mayors are trying to spread the message that investing in a sound infrastructure is essential for continued economic development.
 This may seem obvious, but infrastructure proponents are having a terrible time getting traction on this issue. Infrastructure initiatives are expensive, and not sexy. But there are powerful returns on these investments. They tend to pay for themselves many times over (can you imagine New York City without the subways?) and the projects are job creators.
 With President Bush on the way out, the burden of leading an effort to rebuild the nation's infrastructure would fall on either Barack Obama or John McCain. Representatives of each candidate attended Thursday's meeting but did not participate.
 The mayors talked about clogged highways, the high price of gasoline and an air transportation system that seems to get more pitiful by the day. Mayor John Robert Smith of Meridian, Miss., called on the presidential candidates to take a bold, creative approach to the nation's transportation needs, including substantial investments in railroad infrastructure.
 Mr. Smith believes the nation should devote the same level of commitment to developing a first-rate passenger rail system as was marshaled for the interstate highway system in the Eisenhower era. 
 What struck me as I listened to the mayors' earnest conversations was how infrequently the public gets to hear the nitty gritty of serious public policy issues. Most voters go into the booth woefully uninformed. Presidential campaigns are largely a compilation of 30-second television ads, endlessly speculating talking heads and nationally televised debates featuring gotcha questions and rigidly enforced time limits that preclude truly thoughtful answers.
 At a press conference after the meeting, Mayor Bloomberg said, ''We've got to make infrastructure investment a national priority,'' and he took the federal government to task for ''walking away from its responsibility in this area.''
 But just like the continuing slaughter of young people in tough neighborhoods across the country, very little attention is being given to the nation's neglected infrastructure needs.
 The mayors met in Philadelphia recently to talk about crime, and they will be meeting in Los Angeles soon to talk about poverty.
 Who knows if anyone is listening. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); MAYORS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CITIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); VIOLENT CRIME (73%); CURFEW (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); CREDIT CRISIS (66%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%)

PERSON: PARIS HILTON (56%); BRITNEY SPEARS (56%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2008



383 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET VALUES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Small Stocks Survive, And Thrive

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
SHARES of smaller companies often have the worst of it in a bear market. They are more susceptible to swings in the economy because they can be more financially fragile. They also derive a greater portion of their revenue from domestic customers, including larger businesses that may squeeze them to get out of difficulties of their own.
 The current downturn should be particularly rough on corporate minnows because the American economy has been affected more than Europe and emerging markets, where larger companies are more likely to do business. Yet for the last six months, smaller-capitalization stocks have outperformed. The Russell 2000 benchmark index of small caps is up more than 7 percent, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index of larger companies is down nearly 4 percent. 
 The resilience of small caps may be an artifact of the credit crisis, which has sent the shares of big banks into free fall while hurting those of smaller institutions much less. It also may be a remnant of the post-2002 bull market, when investors preferred large multinationals.
 Portfolio managers who specialize in small caps say that the group tends to lead the way out of recessions and into new bull markets. If small caps are doing better, said Michael Balkin, manager of the William Blair Small Cap Growth fund, it could be that investors are starting to believe that ''we're moving toward the middle of the recession and see light at the end of the tunnel.''
 That's possible, but market action suggests that when investors peer down the tunnel, all they are seeing is more tunnel. Mr. Balkin then offered an alternative theory that earns the pessimist's seal of approval.
 Foreign economies are starting to show weakness, which could hurt American multinationals. Instead of seeing the light at the end of the tunnel here, investors may be glimpsing darkness at the beginning of the tunnel there.
 As markets progress through the murk, Mr. Balkin is focusing on companies whose leadership in an industrial niche will allow them to increase earnings at a healthy pace. A soft economy will minimally encumber such enterprises and may even help them.
 One example is VistaPrint, which began as an online graphic-design company and has expanded into a provider of a broader range of business services. As layoff victims start their own businesses, VistaPrint stands to benefit, Mr. Balkin said.
 His other selections include Affiliated Managers Group, which invests in small asset management firms; and Ultimate Software Group, which performs payroll and other functions for businesses using its software.
 P. Drew Rankin, co-manager of the Tocqueville Small Cap Value fund, tries to stay recession-proof by concentrating on ''parts of the marketplace that never benefited from the recovery'' from the last recession, he said.
 One of his themes is what he called little-ticket technology spending by businesses. Instead of the big projects that were in vogue in the 1990s, he said, companies are making small investments to enhance productivity. A potential beneficiary, he says, is Aspen Technology, a provider of logistics software.
 Another segment that he favors is health care. Large drug makers and manufacturers of medical devices have grown more dependent on small ones to do research for them and have formed joint ventures with them.
 HIS choices in this area include the Medicines Company, which recently won approval for a blood pressure treatment, and Thoratec, which makes cardiovascular devices.
 Mr. Rankin's third theme is the rebirth of American manufacturing. A weak dollar makes locally produced goods cheaper, he said, and expensive energy makes products from abroad more expensive to ship here. One potential winner that he highlighted is Baldor Electric Company, which makes custom electric motors.
 Despite the recent outperformance of smaller companies, Mr. Rankin warns that prospects for the group will be limited as long as recession fears remain. With his three themes, he hopes to find something rare in this climate for all companies: ''the magic combination of accelerating revenue growth and improving margins that create earnings surprises.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (50%)

COMPANY: VISTAPRINT NV (52%); AFFILIATED MANAGERS GROUP INC (51%); ULTIMATE SOFTWARE GROUP INC (51%)

TICKER: VPRT (NASDAQ) (52%); AMG (NYSE) (51%); ULTI (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (52%); SIC2759 COMMERCIAL PRINTING, NEC (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2008



384 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: On NYTimes.com

 BODY:
Bloggingheads.tv Watch a debate on whether today's immigrants are emotionally tied to America. 
 nytimes.com/opinion
 Some of the best cheap eating in Ecuador can't be circled on a map. In fact, even a well-versed local won't be able to tell you exactly where to find these particular meals. At left, Isabela Suqui cooks a cuy. 
 nytimes.com/travel
 Barack Obama, Catholics and abortion. Also: Denmark's green energy policies; when airlines charge for in-flight extras.
 nytimes.com/opinion
 SLIDESHOW: REHEARSING 
 For the Conventions
 A photo essay of scenes from the preparations ahead of the Democratic and Republican conventions in Denver and St. Paul.
 nytimes.com/business
 SLIDESHOW: IN SARDINIA, 
 The New Costa Smeralda
 You no longer have to be a platinum-selling musician or a seven-figure C.E.O. to visit the once elite-only playground of Costa Smeralda in Sardinia. A new airport terminal in Olbia has been adding European routes and airlines every year, including budget carriers.
 nytimes.com/travel
 VIDEO: NEWS ANALYSIS FEARING RUSSIA
 Like other former Soviet Republics in the Baltics, Georgia has long feared a Russian occupation.
 nytimes.com/world
 VIDEO: WETLANDS VANISHING
 From Under Cajuns
 In the last 50 years, land loss rates in Southern Louisiana have exceeded 40 square miles a year, representing 80 percent of the coastal wetland loss in the continental United States. Susan Saulny reports on towns where this is affecting Creole/Cajun culture.
 nytimes.com/national
 SLIDESHOW: PHOTOS OF THE WEEK
 Photographs from the past week in New York City and the region, linking back to articles, blog posts and multimedia.
 nytimes.com/nyregion
 AUDIO: BUSINESS PODCAST
 This week: Jeff Sommer with Louis Uchitelle on inflation and the economy; and Tim O'Brien, Steve Lohr and Nelson Schwartz on business executives in the presidential campaigns.
 nytimes.com/business
 SLIDESHOW: THE WORKS 
 Of Peter Saul
 Images of works by the painter that are on display at the Orange County Museum in California.
 nytimes.com/design

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Wild Coast Of Spain: The Costa Brava is still a place where fishing villages feel like fishing villages, where medieval mountain towns are hushed at siesta time, and where the rugged Catalan landscape descends to startlingly blue waters. nytimes.com/travel (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATIAS COSTA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A Culinary Trip Through Ecuador: Some of the best cheap eating in Ecuador can't be circled on a map. In fact, even a well-versed local won't be able to tell you exactly where to find these particular meals. At left, Isabela Suqui cooks a cuy. nytimes.com/travel (PHOTOGRAPH BY IVAR KASHINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); AIR SERVICE (76%); AIR FARES (75%); AIRPORTS (75%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); WETLANDS (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (63%); PODCASTING (63%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (56%); RELIGION (56%); COASTAL AREAS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) CATALONIA, SPAIN (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) ECUADOR (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EUROPE (79%); BALTIC STATES (78%); DENMARK (76%); SPAIN (74%); GEORGIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2008



385 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2489 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES, AUGUST 16, 2008

 BODY:
International
 COURT PONDERS INVESTIGATION
 Of Colombian Rebels' Supporters
 The chief prosecutor for the International Criminal Court said that he would visit Bogota to determine whether the court should open a formal investigation into support networks for the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, Colombia's largest rebel group. The preliminary inquiry comes as concerns about FARC's support network outside Colombia have deepened. PAGE A10 
 MUSHARRAF VOWS TO FIGHT CHARGES
 President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan said through his chief political supporter that he would challenge impeachment charges if they were brought to Parliament. Politicians across all parties called Mr. Musharraf's insistence that he would not resign a bravura performance that could not be maintained under the political reality that almost all of his support had evaporated. The country's information minister said that a drafting panel had completed a charge sheet against Mr. Musharraf. She did not specify the charges or a date for presenting them to Parliament. PAGE A10 
 TRUCK BOMBER KILLS 9 IN IRAQ
 Nine people were killed after a suicide bomber detonated a pickup truck near the bus station in the northern Iraqi town of Balad. It was the second attack in 24 hours on Shiite pilgrims traveling to Karbala to celebrate one of the holiest days in the Shiite calendar. PAGE A10 
 WEIGHING RUSSIA'S MOVES
 The Russian tanks rumbling across parts of Georgia are forcing European leaders and those in Washington to ask a question barely posed in the years following the fall of Communism: How far will or can Russia go, and what should the response be? The answer will play out not just in the European Union, but along its new eastern frontier, in once obscure places like Moldova and Azerbaijan. PAGE A8
 Obituaries
 C. LESTER HOGAN, 88
 As a pioneer in the electronics industry he was part of a generation of brilliant scientists who emerged after World War II and applied their imaginations to the discoveries that became the computer revolution. When Mr. Hogan left Motorola -- taking seven of its experts with him to another company -- the company sued for damages resulting from the talent loss. His new compensation package led to a new phrase in the industry, ''the Hogan.'' (As in: ''That guy can't be worth more than half a Hogan.'') PAGE A17 
 DONALD ERB, 81
 A distinguished professor emeritus of composition at the Cleveland Institute of Music, he composed ''Reconnaissance,'' one of the first chamber works for live synthesizer and acoustic instruments. Some of Mr. Erb's work reflected his affinity for incorporating objects like wine glasses into his scores. PAGE A17 
 national
 CRACKING DOWN ON GUN SMUGGLING
 To Battle Violence in Mexico
 The increase of guns flowing into Mexico from the United States, which is fueling some of the worst drug violence there in years, can only be stopped by cracking down on smugglers the way federal authorities hobbled the Mafia, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said. United States officials have estimated that 90 to 95 percent of the weapons used in Mexico's drug violence come from the United States. PAGE A12
 ARMSTRONG, THE WATER GUZZLER
 Lance Armstrong is one of the favorite sons of Texas and a model citizen known as much for his social conscience as his cycling, so it came as a surprise when it was revealed this week that he is one of the biggest individual users of water in Austin, where he lives. Say it ain't so, Lance. This tremendous flow of H2O comes as Texas is going through a dry spell and officials are asking people to cut back on watering lawns. PAGE A11
 FLAWS TO REMAIN IN POLL MACHINES
 Flaws in voting machines used by millions of people will not be fixed in time for the presidential election because of a government backlog in testing the machines' hardware and software. As a result, machine manufacturers and state election officials say states and local jurisdictions are forgoing important software modifications meant to address security and performance concerns. PAGE A11 
 SLIGHT CHANGES IN OBAMA'S PLANS
 Senator Barack Obama appears to be altering his proposals for extending Social Security payroll taxes and raising the capital gains tax, by delaying the increases or scaling them back. Mr. Obama has not abandoned either his support for a higher tax rate on capital gains or his proposal to subject individual wages above $250,000 to the Social Security payroll tax. But recent statements by campaign aides suggested that the latest iterations of the plans are more modest. PAGE A14
 TURNING A BLIND EYE TO HURRICANES
 The hurricanes are coming. And although Carlos Alvarez, mayor of Miami-Dade County, includes a warning with every public speech he gives, for many the message has yet to register. ''Hurricanes are part of our lives,'' he tells people. Florida's faltering economy and a scarcity of major storms in recent years have led to what emergency management officials describe as a dangerous level of complacency. PAGE A11
 CLOSER LOOK AT MOON OF SATURN
 Exquisite closeups of fissures on a tiny frozen moon of Saturn will provide the latest clues in solving the riddle of how a 310-mile-wide ice ball could possibly be shooting geysers of vapor and icy particles. Since the discovery of the jets in 2006, the moon, Enceladus, has jumped near the top of the list of potential places for life in the solar system. PAGE A12
 McCain Meets Fund-Raising Goals A13
 metro
 VISAS FOR IMMIGRANTS
 Who Lost Loved Ones on 9/11
 Fifteen illegal immigrants who have lived in limbo since since their spouses or parents died in the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001 were granted temporary legal status by federal officials. The officials and the families' supporters said the decision would clear the way for Congress to move forward on bills that would grant the immigrants permanent legal status. PAGE B3 
 A SUMMER WITHOUT STORY LINES
 For most of the year, it's easy for Pat Kiernan, an anchor for the local cable news station NY1, to fill the eight-minute roundup of the contents of each day's newspapers with gossip, policy, intrigue and street mayhem. Not so this summer, when there is no mayoral election, political convention or other major news -- like serial killer David Berkowitz, above -- for the media to cover. ''The Yankees stink, the Mets barely hanging in -- and no real passion for any of the more traditional escapes,'' said one publicist. PAGE B1
 Business
 LOOKING TO VETERANS OF ONE CRISIS
 To Help Solve Another
 The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation reduced its staff following several particularly quiet years, including a stretch from 2005 through the end of 2006 when not a single bank failed. But it is expanding again to tackle a credit and mortgage crisis in full bloom. Many of the new employees are retirees who worked for the agency during the savings and loan mess of the 1980s. PAGE C1
 A SPLIT AMONG HEAVYWEIGHTS
 Richard A. Posner and Frank H. Easterbrook, both circuit court judges, are considered two of the most important legal thinkers in the country. Both were appointed by President Ronald Reagan, and they have written papers together for the University of Chicago Law School. But the two have parted ways over a dispute involving what the courts should do about high pay for the investment managers of mutual funds. PAGE C3
 UNIONIZING AT WAL-MART CANADA
 Eight employees in the automotive department of a Wal-Mart Canada store have become the only North American employees of the giant retailer to be covered by a union contract. The contract was imposed by a Quebec government arbitrator, and a three-year agreement provided eight employees with an improved wage scale, annual raises and a grievance process for settling disputes. A Wal-Mart Canada spokesman said the company needed to review the ruling before making any decisions. PAGE C4
 A SLIVER OF GOOD NEWS
 The Federal Reserve had some positive news for an otherwise ailing economy. Industrial production, a measure of the volume of goods produced in the United States, slightly topped expectations in July. The increase wasn't much, and it isn't expected to happen again in the next few months. ''People were looking for bad news and didn't get it,'' an analyst said. PAGE C2
 Arts
 SCREENPLAYS, LAWSUITS
 And Two Industry Towns
 A screenwriter named Bob Blakeman is suing Kelsey Grammer, Kevin Costner, Disney and others for allegedly stealing his ideas for the film that became ''Swing Vote,'' which stars Mr. Costner and Mr. Grammer. Mr. Blakeman, a former political operative in Washington, said the suit was based on his own experiences, which were often stranger than fiction. ''Maybe I'll write a screenplay about a political person being ripped off by Hollywood,'' he said. PAGE B7
 PAINTING AS BUTTON PUSHING
 Despite the influence Peter Saul's provocative work has had on the artistic landscape, it was not until recently that he conjured much enthusiasm from the marketplace. Museums have treated him with indifference, if not avoidance. Holland Cotter writes that a retrospective at the Orange County Museum of Modern Art shows when Mr. Saul's ''art is pressed to declare its loyalties, it gives no unequivocal answers.'' PAGE B7 
 FOR THE LOVE OF THE SQUEEZEBOX
 There were a few younger faces sprinkled into the cohort of old-timers at the American Accordionists' Association's 70th-anniversary festival and competition. One cited the ''Pac-Man'' theory in the accordion's popular resurgence: the instrument had become so uncool in recent decades that like that video game hero, it popped back out the other side, becoming cool once again. PAGE B9
 EVIL AND LOTS OF SHATTERED GLASS
 In the new horror film ''Mirrors,'' Keifer Sutherland plays a beleaguered night watchmen haunted by images in mirrors. The torment -- evil and malign, as things tend to be in such movies -- drives him to a monastery for aid and solace. ''Not even as Jack Bauer did he ever pull a gun on a nun,'' Jeanette Catsoulis writes of Sutherland. ''It's good to see him stretch.'' PAGE B15
 Sports
 PHELPS ISN'T IN TOTAL CONTROL
 Of His Gold-Medal Destiny
 If he wins the 100-meter butterfly, Michael Phelps -- perhaps you've heard of him this week -- will try for his record-breaking eighth gold medal on Sunday. But that event, the 4x100-meter medley relay, means that his accomplishment is not completely under control -- as in the 2007 world championships, when a teammate's premature start in the event earned the American team a disqualification and cost Phelps a medal. PAGE D1
 THE NEXT MARAVICH (MAYBE)
 In another indication of how the world's basketball axis has shifted from America, one of the most buzzed-about athletes in these Olympics has been Ricky Rubio, a 17-year-old from Spain who is seen as possibly the top point guard prospect in the 2009 N.B.A. draft. He has received significant playing time on a team with N.B.A.-tested talent, and his looks and game have garnered comparisons to Pete Maravich. PAGE D7
 this weekend
 ARTS
 A year ago few people in the art world had heard of Dasha Zhukova. But since helping turn the Bakhmetevsky Bus Garage in Moscow into the Garage Center for Contemporary Culture, the center and her deep-pocketed connections have made her an art-world It Girl. Her sudden fame attests to the seismic effect that Russian money -- and in some cases Ukrainian or Georgian money -- is having. PAGE 1
 TRAVEL
 On the bus that travels down Ecuador's valley known as Avenue of the Volcanoes, make sure you keep an eye out the window. Not for the scenery, but for roving groups of food vendors along the routes, peddling delicacies like fresh made and familiar ice cream but also local treats, including a taffy-like candy. Page 9 
 STYLE
 Robyn Okrant is dressed according to Oprah Winfrey's ''Shlumpadinka Makeovers'' episode, and she made a vision board to organize her dreams. All in a day's work for the mind behind livingoprah.com, a blog documenting Ms. Okrant's experiment: to live life according to the wellspring of advice that Ms. Winfrey offers on her show, her Web site and her magazine. Page 1
 BOOK REVIEW
 ''Credit and Blame,'' by the late sociologist Charles Tilly, delves into why people are inclined to assign one or the other, depending on their assessment of which needs assigning. And while giving credit would seem to need no defending, Tilly considers blaming, Alexander Star writes in his review, ''an essential habit that allows us to maintain and repair our relationships with others.'' (Of course to a good Taoist, neither matters.) PAGE 10
 THE MAGAZINE
 Hurricane Katrina wiped out the New Orleans public schools. It also created a rare chance to build a system that might solve the biggest problem in urban education -- how to teach disadvantaged children. PAGE 30
 WEEK IN REVIEW
 Anyone trying to track how American cinema got to the level of tastelessness reveled in by ''Tropic Thunder'' -- which even favorable reviews criticize as having parts that are vulgar, puerile and needlessly gross -- would do well to travel back to 1977 and ''The Kentucky Fried Movie,'' then ''Animal House'' the next year, and so on. PAGE 2
 SUNDAY BUSINESS
 Airlines have discovered that customers are willing to pay for all kinds of services that used to come at no extra charge. What's more, there hasn't been much fuss. Now marketing staffs are at work devising even more ways to raise prices aside from ticket fees in what the industry has called an ''a la carte'' approach. PAGE 1
 Editorial
 THE NEW CHILL
 Russia's brazen invasion of Georgia has raised a host of chilling questions that Americans and many others around the world had hoped were long settled. page A18
 SHRINKING NEW YORK'S BUDGET
 Gov. David Paterson of New York has been waving a red flag about the state budget. It's a revolutionary idea in Albany, but maybe the state's lawmakers could impress voters by saving taxpayer money, not just spending it. page A18
 CORN-PHONE
 Samsung's latest ''eco-phone'' -- with a case made from materials extracted from corn -- relies on a flawed equation: corn equals green. It is really time to throw out this formula for good. page A18
 op-ed
 BOB HERBERT
 America's mayors feel that some important domestic issues, neglected by the Bush administration, are getting short shrift in the presidential campaign. page A19
 GAIL COLLINS
 Word went out this week that Hillary Clinton's name is going to be put in nomination at the convention. The folks at the top of the food chain were the very picture of good fellowship. There is no greater achievement than the nonviolent resolution of differences. page A19
 THERE'S NO PAYING IN BASEBALL
 The rules of Little League say you can't require a fee for children who want to play the sport. In an Op-Ed article, Joe Mathews writes that the game is every American child's birthright. page A19

CORRECTION-DATE: August 19, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A capsule summary on Saturday for an article about the new horror film ''Mirrors'' misspelled the given name of one of the stars. He is Kiefer Sutherland, not Keifer.
A capsule summary on Saturday for an article about the new horror film ''Mirrors'' misspelled the given name of one of the stars. He is Kiefer Sutherland, not Keifer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (92%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (90%); LITIGATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (83%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (83%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); SMUGGLING (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); DEATHS (72%); WORLD WAR II (72%); IMPEACHMENT (71%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); ELECTRONICS (67%); DAMAGES (65%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (63%)

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (90%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (84%)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (52%)

PERSON: PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (73%) COLOMBIA (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPE (92%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2008



386 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: The New Chill

 BODY:
Russia's brazen invasion of Georgia has raised a host of chilling questions that Americans and many others around the world had hoped were long settled. 
 Is Russia a threat -- to its neighbors, to Europe, to the United States? What are the United States and its NATO allies prepared to do if Russia blackmails or attacks another sovereign democratic nation that is not a member of the alliance? Should the West continue to engage Russia or focus more on containing its ambitions? 
 President Bush has begun a crisis-induced reassessment of America's ties with Russia that his successor will have to revise and implement. 
 Mr. Bush's father deftly managed the Soviet Union's dissolution. President Bill Clinton did a poorer job managing Russia's post-cold-war decline and Mr. Bush has done even worse managing its resurgence. 
 After criticizing Mr. Clinton for placing too much faith in Boris Yeltsin, Mr. Bush has placed far too much faith in Vladimir Putin. Mr. Bush and the Europeans have willfully looked the other way as Mr. Putin, the president-turned-prime minister, throttled a free press, jailed political rivals and used Russia's oil and gas riches to blackmail neighbors. 
 At the same time, Mr. Bush has turned a deaf ear to Russia's growing list of grievances -- many of them illegitimate, but not all. We opposed NATO expansion when Mr. Clinton first championed the idea. Once it began, we agreed that Moscow could not have veto power over which of Russia's democratic neighbors could apply and join. 
 President Bush further fueled Russian nationalism and made Mr. Putin's job easier, when he insisted on building an unproven missile defense system in this country -- and then insisted on building another one in Central Europe. (After temporizing for months, Poland embraced the idea this week.) 
 Mr. Bush also jettisoned a key area for cooperation when he dismissed the need for further nuclear arms control agreements. That decision looks especially frightening today.
 Mr. Bush ignored the brewing crisis in Georgia for months. He has now spoken out forcefully against Russia's aggression. His decision to send military planes with humanitarian supplies to Georgia was unexpectedly deft -- forcing Russia to reassess its offensive without stoking a wider war. We hope it works. He must also tell Georgia's president that he cannot keep baiting Moscow. 
 Where should Mr. Bush go from here? We believe it would be folly to try to isolate Russia. It is a major economic power with a veto in the United Nations Security Council and has thousands of nuclear weapons. Isolation is far more likely to spawn more resentment and radicalism. 
 Russia must understand that there will be no business as usual so long as it continues to occupy Georgia and threaten its neighbors. Russia is eager to join the World Trade Organization and sign a trade and security deal with Europe. Both must be put on hold. If Mr. Putin persists, the Group of 8 industrialized nations may have to limit Moscow's involvement, but we are not ready to embrace Senator John McCain's call to oust Russia. 
 Mr. Bush is bequeathing his successor a world of troubles in Afghanistan, Iraq, Pakistan. The next president will also have to deal with a resurgent and increasingly hostile Russia. We believe that skeptical engagement is the best course. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); VETO (89%); COLD WAR (79%); EXTORTION (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (72%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (63%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (63%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (50%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%); BILL CLINTON (77%); MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); GEORGIA (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2008



387 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: Shrinking New York's Budget

 BODY:
New York's legislators are like a family picnicking on the railroad tracks. For the moment, things are fine and nobody seems ready to admit that the rumble in the distance is not good news. Nobody except Gov. David Paterson, that is. He has been waving a red flag about the state budget. 
 With revenues dropping, he has proposed $600 million in spending cuts by state agencies and is asking the Legislature to quickly come up with another $600 million in cuts. Unfortunately, an election year is never a good time to face hard truths. And the $1.2 billion in savings Mr. Paterson is proposing -- a mere 1 percent of the state's $122 billion budget -- is only a modest down payment given New York's deepening fiscal troubles. 
 The financial community, whose bonuses usually ease state deficits, is in particularly bad shape. Many New Yorkers are losing their jobs. All of which means less tax money paid to the state. Or as the governor puts it: ''revenues have fallen off the cliff.''
 With state budget experts predicting a $7 billion deficit, Mr. Paterson has promised to cut state agency budgets by 10 percent instead of the 3.35 percent he had promised a few months ago. And he has made clear that there will be more cuts to come. He has suggested that the Legislature cut its pork-barrel spending, known as members items, in half: from $200 million in pork, to $100 million. It would be better to cut it altogether.
 Mr. Paterson has also suggested that the Legislature cut budget increases for nursing homes, Medicaid and hospitals. The idea terrifies many legislators. Health care unions are heavy campaign contributors, and they spend lots of money on commercials designed to scare timid politicians. These unions have been coddled for years, especially under former Gov. George Pataki, and it is time for Albany to say no. 
 These trims will not be enough, especially since the governor says he isn't ready to raise taxes in an election year. Mr. Paterson could save hundreds of millions of dollars more by trimming economic grants to companies that fail to add jobs as promised. Construction of nonemergency projects could be postponed. Prisons should be consolidated -- some are almost empty of anybody but state employees.
 School budgets have already been allocated for a school year that begins in a few weeks. Mr. Paterson and the Legislature should be thinking now about how to trim next year's spending fairly. They should abandon the complicated formula that overcompensates rich school districts at the expense of poorer ones.
 Mr. Paterson has embarked on an unpleasant job, and legislators must start doing their part. It's a revolutionary idea in Albany, but maybe the state's lawmakers could impress voters by saving taxpayer money, not just spending it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MEDICAID (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); POLITICS (76%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); JOB CREATION (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (70%); DISMISSALS (68%); LAYOFFS (68%); NURSING HOMES (63%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (63%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (60%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2008



388 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: A Disarming Sense of Humor As Paterson's Secret Weapon

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
It is a campaign ad that was never broadcast, shelved after disputes among consultants about whether it was too flip. The moody spot features gentle piano music and David A. Paterson, candidate for lieutenant governor, waxing rhapsodic about the state's future. 
 ''I see a New York State with property taxes under control, school funding up and class sizes down, a New York where our kids have stopped moving out and begun moving back,'' he says.
 Then Mr. Paterson, who is legally blind, looks into camera with a hint of a mischievous grin and says, deadpan, ''And if you say you can't see all that, well, you're blind.''
 The ad captures what Mr. Paterson's friends say is one of his most distinguishing characteristics: his irreverent sense of humor. His timing is sharp, his impressions, from President Bush to Congressman Charles B. Rangel, are dead-on, and his self-deprecation is disarming. 
 Now Mr. Paterson, thrust from obscurity into one of the most visible governorships in the country, is trying to gain the public's confidence as he confronts the most serious test of his five-month-old administration: a $6.4 billion budget gap and a confrontation with the Legislature over how to close it. Yet he shows no signs of abandoning his wisecracking. In fact, Mr. Paterson and his allies see his humor as an antidote to the kind of tensions that build up during a political crisis.
 During a recent speech about New York's fiscal woes at the National Press Club in Washington, Mr. Paterson made reference to the Great Depression, Herbert Hoover and the oil crisis of the 1970s. But he also worked in allusions to 1960s TV shows, and a crack about Eliot Spitzer's reported rendezvous with a prostitute. 
 Asked about high oil prices, Mr. Paterson explained that he opposed more domestic drilling, saying, ''Remember in 'The Beverly Hillbillies' when you're shootin' for some food, and up from the ground came some bubbling crude? That show went off, and so did that idea.''
 To a question about what lessons he had drawn from the scandal that brought down his predecessor, who was caught on a wiretap arranging to meet a prostitute in a Washington hotel, he responded, ''Be careful when you come to Washington.''
 ''That's him. He cannot repress that sense of humor,'' said Randy Credico, a political comedian and friend of Mr. Paterson's for about a decade. ''It's hard for him to go onstage, get in front of a microphone and not tell jokes. It's in him.''
 After the speech, Mr. Paterson said in an interview he hoped humor could help people absorb his message about the fragility of New York's economy. ''You have the choice just to be Mr. Gloom, or to lay out the path and make it clear we can return,'' he said. ''I don't want to alarm people, and I don't want to send anyone into a panic.''
 His allies in Albany say he understands he has to strike a balance. 
 ''I think he disarms people by being funny and glib,'' said Eric T. Schneiderman, a Democratic state senator from the Upper West Side of Manhattan. ''He's the governor, after all. Humor works, but no one wants the governor to be a clown.''
 The Democratic leader of the State Senate, Malcolm A. Smith, said: ''A mistake people make with him is they think that humor is a sign of weakness or even a sign of someone who is not serious. And I believe that people are finding that to be not true. Don't assume because he laughs and tells jokes he's a pushover.''
 Many politicians' jokes draw polite laughter simply because of who they are. But people who have regularly seen Mr. Paterson speak said that the governor stands out because he is genuinely funny.
 ''He's got incredible timing,'' said Mr. Credico, who said he once lured Mr. Paterson onstage during his weekly comedy show on the East Side. He said Mr. Paterson did a 15-minute set and the audience loved it. ''That's why you like listening to the guy. A lot of people like a guy who isn't going by the script.''
 The governor's comic sensibility is a result, in part, of the loneliness he felt as a child, Mr. Paterson said in another interview. He lost most of his sight as an infant (he is totally blind in his left eye and has limited vision in his right). He was acutely aware that he was different from other children, and that some people were uneasy around him. 
 ''During his formative years as a teenager, he was not the most popular kid,'' said Michael Jones-Bey, a friend of many years who worked for Mr. Paterson when the governor was a state senator. ''Many of the most brilliant comics have gone through some adversity, and Paterson had his own share of challenges in his life.''
 Mr. Paterson said he realized early on that laughing -- whether it was at the Harlem Globetrotters' antic performances or listening to Abbott and Costello's ''Who's on First'' -- was a way to ease his sense of isolation.
 He remembered that as a child he would laugh along with his father at President John F. Kennedy's humorous responses to reporters during televised news conferences, though he admits that he was too young to really understand the jokes.
 ''I think people who have a good sense of humor do have in them a little bit of loneliness,'' he said. ''When I was younger I was certainly that way. So I think I used humor to entertain myself. That was my way of enjoying time, my way of finding the frivolity in situations.''
 And he learned that if he turned his humor on himself, he could put other children at ease.
 ''I always got that new groups of people were uncomfortable having me in the room,'' he said. ''And I think that was my way of trying to relate to them. It was easier than saying, 'Hi. I'm David Paterson, and I'm legally blind.' ''
 Even today he jokes more about his blindness than anything else. During a dinner this spring where Mr. Paterson and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg were being honored, one of the speakers introducing them remarked about the importance of ''visionary'' leadership. Mr. Paterson turned to Mr. Bloomberg and said, ''Well, he must be talking about you.'' 
 Debra Budick, an optometrist who works with Lighthouse International, the Manhattan-based nonprofit organization that provides assistance to the blind, said the governor's approach is typical of many who have impaired vision. ''They like to make people laugh because they can hear a laugh,'' Ms. Budick said. ''They can't connect with you by eye contact, so if they can get you to laugh, they can hear the response and connect with you that way.''
 Of course, not every joke of Mr. Paterson's lands well. This month in Albany, at the announcement of a new development project by I.B.M., he said he wanted to invite the I.B.M. executive on hand back to his office for pie. Then he clarified: ''The pi I'm talking about is 3.14159.'' 
 But misfires like that are rare. Nowhere did Mr. Paterson make a bigger show of using humor to cut tension than during his swearing in as governor in March. Almost half of his 20-minute speech was devoted to humorous anecdotes about fellow lawmakers and his family and a spot-on impression of Sheldon Silver, the State Assembly speaker. 
 ''It hit me that people in this room are tense,'' he said, adding that he knew it was a roll of the dice when he started in on his impression of Mr. Silver. ''And then I got that huge response and found out that I was fine.''
 And when his timing is on, he has been known to leave crowds in hysterics. At one press conference shortly after Mr. Spitzer said he would resign, a reporter asked Mr. Paterson whether he, like the former governor, had ever patronized a prostitute.
 Mr. Paterson replied without missing a beat, ''Only the lobbyists,'' and walked away from the lectern, leaving his audience on a high note, as any good comedian would.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. David A. Paterson entertains a reception crowd in Albany. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
 Gov. David A. Paterson, flanked by the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, left, and the Senate majority leader, Dean G. Skelos. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (71%); BLINDNESS (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (63%); PROSTITUTION (62%); WIRETAPPING (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (94%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); CHARLES B RANGEL (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2008



389 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; IF ELECTED ...; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1624 words

HEADLINE: Rivals Differ (a Bit) on Financial Market Rules

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Modernizing the nation's New Deal-era defenses against financial disaster is not high among the priorities that either Barack Obama or John McCain list for the next president. But events could well plop the issue right in the middle of the winner's plate.
 After a string of financial scandals and crises, a quarter century of deregulation and free-market experimentation is giving way to a new round of big-government financial regulation, regardless of who captures the White House, experts say. 
 ''Either way the election goes, you're going to have a major rethinking of how we're organized in terms of oversight of financial markets,'' said Harvey J. Goldschmid, a professor at Columbia Law School and a Democratic member of the Securities and Exchange Commission from 2002 to 2005.
 Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama offer similar diagnoses of the past year's credit crises -- though the turmoil has only episodically been a focus in the long-running presidential campaign. Both believe that special-interest lobbyists had their way with Congress and the regulatory agencies, a conclusion tailored to fit their overall anti-Washington, pro-change campaign themes. 
 Both point a finger at real estate speculators, imprudent lenders and Wall Street for a housing bubble that burst, infecting credit markets here and abroad. But Mr. Obama, more so than his rival, blames the Bush administration for lax, reactive regulation.
 Mr. McCain, reflecting the Republican Party's philosophical aversion to regulating business, would be more cautious about new regulation. But he would take a more aggressive approach to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage-finance giants at the center of the current crisis, by proposing that they be nationalized, downsized and eventually sold. 
 Mr. Obama, the likely Democratic nominee, has outlined six ''principles'' suggesting a more comprehensive overhaul than a President McCain would seek. The Democrat has suggested that he would regulate investment banks, mortgage brokers and hedge funds much as commercial banks are. And he would streamline the overlapping regulatory agencies and create a commission to monitor threats to the financial system and report to the White House and Congress.
 The Democratic candidate has said little about Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the two publicly traded but government-sponsored enterprises whose government lifeline had to be strengthened last month when the slide in their stock value threatened a financial contagion. Both are favorites with Democrats, given the firms' charge not only to benefit shareholders but to underwrite more affordable housing for lower-income Americans.
 Mr. McCain, the presumed Republican nominee, has long been a skeptic about Fannie and Freddie along with many Republicans, and seized on their recent rescue, after first lauding it, to call for drastic action. He would nationalize both firms, which together own or guarantee nearly half of the more than $10 trillion in mortgages, and break them into pieces to be sold off to the private sector, shorn of the implicit guarantees of government backing they have long enjoyed.
 Whatever the candidates' differences, the recent unprecedented interventions in the marketplace by Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and by a Fed led by a former Bush economic adviser, Ben S. Bernanke, suggest that the imperative to act transcends party lines. Mr. Paulson, who engineered the forced fire-sale of Bear Stearns in March and then the Fannie-Freddie rescue in July, has proposed his own blueprint for redrawing the financial regulation system.
 Translating the debate into policy will not be easy, given the trillions of dollars at stake globally. Mr. Goldschmid recalls walking through the Capitol in recent years for meetings on securities legislation, and seeing hallways crammed with lobbyists for ''perhaps a football field in length in every direction,'' all seeking to block changes in the status quo or increase deregulation. Now, he adds, ''I just don't think you're going to be able to hold back healthy change.'' 
 But there are prominent voices for caution in the months before a new administration. ''It is unwise and probably unnecessary to set new regulatory standards before markets settle down,'' Alan Greenspan, the former Fed chairman, said in an interview. ''There is no rush. Current lending is already more cautious than any regulatory proposal I have seen.''
 He believes housing prices, which are a key to the health of financial institutions and the economy generally, are not likely to bottom out until well into 2009.
 ''The real danger here,'' he added, ''is that there is going to be efforts to put legislation through too soon.''
 But Mr. Greenspan, an ardent free-marketer, does not carry the clout he long did, as many have come to blame him for helping create a housing bubble -- by holding interest rates too low for too long -- and for letting the Fed's regulatory powers atrophy. 
 Mr. Greenspan defends the Fed's record under his chairmanship and warns against proposals that would give it full authority over the financial system. He insists financial crises are inevitable parts of history's ''cycles of euphoria and abrupt fear.'' He says the one area for government expansion, which could avert some future crises, is law enforcement's antifraud efforts. 
 While neither Mr. Obama nor Mr. McCain has blamed Mr. Greenspan, they seem more willing than he is to accept government oversight as a solution. 
 Mr. McCain's most expansive comments on the housing crisis date to a speech last March, and echo Mr. Obama's own bottom line. Government assistance should be provided only to prevent ''systemic risk'' to the financial system and economy, Mr. McCain said. But ''when we commit taxpayer dollars as assistance, it should be accompanied by reforms that ensure that we never face this problem again'' -- making financial firms more transparent and accountable. 
 The Republican says he would convene two meetings, one of accounting professionals to help banks and investors assess the battered values of their mortgages and other assets, and another of top mortgage lenders, to extract their pledges to help credit-worthy customers keep their homes or businesses.
 More recently, Mr. McCain chose The St. Petersburg Times in Florida -- a state hard-hit by home foreclosures and critical in the election -- to criticize Fannie's and Freddie's excesses as ''a tribute to crony capitalism that reflects the power of the Washington establishment.''
 With July's federal life preserver, both have access to an open-ended line of credit or equity investment from the Treasury. As housing prices continue to decline and the two companies' losses mount, a growing number of experts think the Treasury will ultimately have to bail them out.
 Mr. McCain, acknowledging they are too big to let fail, said that if either firm ends up getting a dime of taxpayer money, their management and board should be fired, big salaries slashed and lobbyists let go. And as president, he wrote, ''I will get real regulation that limits their ability to borrow, shrinks their size until they are no longer a threat to our economy, and privatizes and eliminates their links to the government.'' 
 That proposal to nationalize, downsize, then privatize parallels Mr. Greenspan's views, though the former Fed chairman says he has not advised either candidate, and will not. But another prominent Republican economist, who asked to remain anonymous to avoid antagonizing the McCain campaign, said: ''There isn't a good way to break them up. They have big portfolios'' of mortgages ''and if you sold them off anytime soon you would further deflate prices in housing, with all kinds of bad consequences.''
 Mr. McCain relies on his chief domestic policy adviser, Douglas Holtz-Eakin, the former Congressional Budget Office director and Bush White House adviser. But associates say the senator still dials up former Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, who forfeited his title of campaign co-chairman after a controversy over his remarks that the United States is ''a nation of whiners'' and is merely in ''a mental recession.'' 
 Current and former advisers say they still consider Mr. Gramm, now UBS investment bank vice chairman, a top prospect for treasury secretary in a McCain administration. While Mr. Obama's chief economic advisers are his policy director, Jason Furman, a Clinton White House veteran, and Austan D. Goolsbee, an economics professor at the University of Chicago, Mr. Obama's touchstones for financial regulation issues include former Fed Chairman Paul Volcker and other Clinton Treasury veterans including former Secretaries Robert E. Rubin and Lawrence H. Summers, and Daniel K. Tarullo, an expert on international economic regulation. 
 Mr. Obama warned of a housing crisis in March 2007, five months before regulators stepped in. He then proposed that Mr. Paulson and Mr. Bernanke convene a summit of lenders, borrowers and regulators. 
 In a March 2008 address at the Cooper Union in Manhattan, he outlined his six principles. They would subject any institution that borrows from the United States to government oversight. ''The American economy does not stand still, and neither should the rules that govern it,'' he said. ''Old institutions cannot adequately oversee new practices.''
 After the last address, three former chairmen of the Securities and Exchange Commission -- William Donaldson and David Ruder, Republicans, and Arthur Levitt, a Democrat -- endorsed him, joining Mr. Volcker in saying a President Obama would take a ''reasoned approach'' to ''balanced regulatory reform.'' Mr. Goldschmid, the former S.E.C. commissioner, has also endorsed Mr. Obama.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: In Their Own Words: ON FINANCIAL BAILOUTS
ON FREDDIE MAC & FANNIE MAE
ON RISING HOME FORECLOSURES(THE NEW YORK TIMES
 PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE ASSOCIATED PRESS AND BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); NATIONALIZATION (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); SECURITIES LAW (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); HOME PRICES (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (71%); HOUSING BUBBLE (71%); PUBLIC HOUSING (70%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (65%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (65%); SCANDALS (57%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (54%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (82%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (67%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (82%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2008



390 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE PROSPECTS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: McCain-Romney Ticket? Some in G.O.P. Shout 'No'

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

 BODY:
On the day Mitt Romney bowed out of the presidential race last February, his supporters latched onto something of a consolation prize that appeared to bode well for his political future: the warm embrace of hundreds of conservatives whose seal of approval he had long sought.
 The enthusiastic ovations Mr. Romney received before and after his speech ending his campaign at the Conservative Political Action Conference in Washington seemed to signal that he had finally overcome skepticism many conservatives harbored about him and become a a bona fide standard-bearer for their movement. 
 Yet as Mr. Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, is said to have emerged as a top contender to be Senator John McCain's vice-presidential running mate, a vocal segment of conservative leaders and grass-roots activists have mobilized against him, with some going out of their way to block his path to the Republican ticket.
 It is unclear just how large the group of Romney detractors is and how representative it is of the broader conservative movement. Many are evangelicals who flocked to one of Mr. Romney's rivals in the Republican primaries, Mike Huckabee, the Baptist minister and former Arkansas governor whose own hopes for making a repeat presidential run in 2012 or 2016 could suffer if Mr. Romney were named to the ticket. 
 Indeed, Mr. Huckabee himself aimed a few jabs at Mr. Romney this week, arguing that he would make an unacceptable vice-presidential pick because of his shifting positions on several issues.
 Nevertheless, the determined opposition to Mr. Romney highlights the nagging concerns about his ideological authenticity -- and his Mormon religion -- that dogged him throughout his primary campaign. It also illuminates the continuing unease Mr. McCain arouses among some evangelicals and other social conservatives who make up an important voting bloc of the Republican base. 
 Mr. McCain, of Arizona, has seemed to be weighing whether to pick a running mate who would help him shore up his ties to his party's conservative base or to make an unconventional choice who could help him attract independents.
 But after Mr. McCain said this week in an interview with The Weekly Standard that he might consider a supporter of abortion rights as his running mate, like former Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania, conservative leaders responded with a torrent of criticism, warning that such a decision would be disastrous for the party's chances in the fall.
 Mr. McCain's floating of Mr. Ridge's name -- and the backlash that ensued -- could actually make the selection of Mr. Romney more palatable. Mr. Romney's fluency on economic matters and his family ties to Michigan, a crucial swing state, are considered assets in his favor. 
 Mr. Romney's staff sought from the beginning of his presidential campaign to position him as the most electable conservative candidate in the field. But even some of his closest advisers conceded they might have overcompensated while trying to paper over some of the more moderate views he espoused in the past. The dissonance led to accusations of flip-flopping from Mr. Romney's opponents. 
 Toward the end of Mr. Romney's run, however, with the momentum clearly behind Mr. McCain, a growing chorus of conservative voices began to rally to Mr. Romney, with talk show hosts like Rush Limbaugh talking him up, and Sean Hannity and Laura Ingraham endorsing him ahead of the crush of states that voted on Feb. 5. The support proved to be too late, but Mr. Romney's supporters took heart, looking ahead to another run in four or eight years. 
 ''The problem was not that it didn't gel,'' said James Bopp Jr., an anti-abortion activist and lawyer who was among several leading conservatives who endorsed Mr. Romney early on. ''The problem was it gelled too late.''
 Several evangelical and conservative leaders said they believed that Romney detractors were a relatively small faction, contending that he remained acceptable to most. But others said that the hostility toward Mr. Romney in their ranks was much more widespread. They suggested evangelicals might be more open to potential candidates like Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota, although he remains an unknown quantity to many, or, better yet, Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana. 
 ''I think when you look at Mitt Romney, he's not in the totally uncomfortable column, but he's not in the completely comfortable column, so he's kind of in between,'' said Tony Perkins of the Family Research Council. ''Those that do have opposition to him, they're pretty adamant in their opposition.''
 Mathew D. Staver, dean of Liberty University School of Law and founder of the conservative legal advocacy group Liberty Counsel, recently organized a meeting in Denver of some 100 top Christian conservative leaders in which they agreed to try to coalesce around Mr. McCain, despite reservations about him. 
 But Mr. Staver said that choosing Mr. Romney would ''not advance the ball within the evangelical bloc of voters that McCain needs.''
 ''It would make my job to rally the grass roots more difficult,'' he said.
 Mr. Romney's shifting stances and tone on abortion, gay rights and other issues clearly figure into his critics' feelings, but his Mormon faith also remains a factor in attitudes toward him among some evangelicals. 
 ''I think Romney would be very acceptable to the foreign policy conservatives and the economic conservatives and most social conservatives,'' said Richard Land, leader of the public policy arm of the Southern Baptist Convention. ''But I think it's fair to say that about 15 to 20 percent of evangelicals would have a difficult time voting for a Mormon on either side of the ticket.''
 Mr. Land said he believed that Mr. Romney's faith should not be an issue, pointing out that Mr. Romney managed to win at least the tacit approval of many national evangelical leaders and made significant gains among rank-and-file evangelicals. But a sizable number of state-level activists have remained adamantly opposed to Mr. Romney, Mr. Land said, attributing the phenomenon partly to the fact that many are heavily involved in their evangelical churches, which do not consider Mormonism a part of Christian orthodoxy.
 ''It would mean at the margins there would be some evangelicals who just wouldn't vote,'' Mr. Land said.
 Since his exit from the race, Mr. Romney has continued to work to burnish his conservative credentials, forming a political action committee, Free and Strong America, in the spring that has contributed roughly $50,000 to conservative candidates across the country. Peter Flaherty, Mr. Romney's former deputy campaign manager who was one of his top advisers for conservative outreach, is executive director of the committee.
 Last week in Ohio, however, about a dozen grass-roots conservatives, many of them former Huckabee backers, gathered in Cincinnati to discuss their alarm about the talk of a McCain-Romney ticket and to draw up plans for a new group, Social Conservatives Against Mitt Romney.
 ''We're talking about getting the word out to people about the fact that we don't want Mitt Romney as the candidate,'' said Diane Stover, the leader of a social conservative group in the Cleveland area, who dialed into the meeting. ''There seems to be a groundswell of voices for Mitt Romney out there, but I want to make sure the grass-roots voices are heard.''
 In April, a collection of social conservative leaders took out a full-page advertisement in a newspaper in Arizona when Mr. McCain was campaigning there that was headlined, ''An Open Letter to John McCain: No Mitt.''
 Theultimate danger for Mr. McCain is not necessarily that Christian conservatives will not vote for him if he chooses Mr. Romney, but that they will not be as energetic in turning people out to vote, said David Fornshell, vice chairman of the Republican Party in Warren County, Ohio, where evangelical turnout helped lift President Bush to victory in 2004 in that critical state.
 ''I'm going to back whomever McCain picks,'' said Mr. Fornshell, who supported former Senator Fred D. Thompson of Tennessee in the primary. ''But am I concerned that there is a very important, very hard-working segment of traditional Republican backers who might not work hard? Yeah, that concerns me.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney is said to be emerging as a top contender to become John McCain's running mate.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); RELIGION (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (72%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (50%); ABORTION (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2008



391 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: Judges in Dispute Over Mutual Funds

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
THEY are both known as conservatives and were pioneers in the economic analysis of the law. Each is a past president of the American Law and Economics Association. They have written papers together and teach at the University of Chicago law school while serving as judges of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, to which each was appointed by President Ronald Reagan.
 One academic study found the two judges, Richard A. Posner and Frank H. Easterbrook, were the circuit court judges most often quoted by other judges. A 2001 poll of Legal Affairs Magazine readers listed them among the 20 most influential legal thinkers in the country. Only one other circuit court judge made the list. 
 But now they have parted ways on a dispute involving what the courts should do about high pay for the investment managers of mutual funds.
 In a vigorous dissent, Judge Posner criticized the ''one-sided character of the panel's analysis'' in a major decision by Judge Easterbrook, which said fund directors, also called trustees, should have the final say on pay for managers. 
 ''The trustees (and in the end investors, who vote with their feet and dollars), rather than a judge or jury, determine how much advisory services are worth,'' Judge Easterbrook wrote.
 To Judge Posner, that analysis was naive.
 ''Competition in product and capital markets can't be counted on to solve the problem because the same structure of incentives operates on all large corporations and similar entities, including mutual funds,'' he said. ''Mutual funds are a component of the financial services industry, where abuses have been rampant.''
 Judge Posner issued his comments last week in a futile effort to get the entire Seventh Circuit to consider the case, rather than allow the decision by Judge Easterbrook and two colleagues to stand. One of the 11 judges recused himself, and the others split 5 to 5 on the question. Without a majority vote, the original opinion stood.
 At issue is a section of the law passed by Congress in 1970, which provides that fund managers have a ''fiduciary duty with respect to compensation for services,'' and gives shareholders the right to go to court and argue that fees are excessive.
 Until now, the dominant precedent on that issue was a 1982 ruling by the Second Circuit in a case known by the name of the plaintiff, Irving L. Gartenberg. That ruling stated that a fee could be deemed excessive if it was ''so disproportionately large that it bears no reasonable relationship to the services rendered and could not have been the product of arm's-length bargaining.''
 Judge Posner complained that although the Easterbrook opinion did not precisely say it was rejecting the Gartenberg precedent, that was what it did, and that Judge Easterbrook had violated a Seventh Circuit rule requiring that such an opinion be sent to all circuit judges before its release.
 The Easterbrook opinion relied in part on what it called a ''a recent, careful study'' study written by two academics, John C. Coates, a Harvard professor of law and economics, and R. Glenn Hubbard, the dean of Columbia Business School and a former chairman of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers. 
 That study, which was financed in part by the Investment Company Institute, a mutual fund trade group, concluded, Judge Easterbrook wrote, ''that thousands of mutual funds are plenty, that investors can and do protect their interests by shopping, and that regulating advisory fees through litigation is unlikely to do more good than harm.''
 Judge Posner, in his dissent, said that even the Coates and Hubbard study ''explicitly approves Gartenberg.'' But he also said there was more evidence of abusive behavior on Wall Street than there was when their article was written in August 2007. He pointed to a May 2008 study by Camelia M. Kuhnen, an assistant professor of finance at Northwestern, which found evidence that connections between fund directors and managers ''foster favoritism, to the detriment of investors.'' 
 Judge Posner added, ''The panel bases its rejection of Gartenberg mainly on an economic analysis that is ripe for re-examination on the basis of growing indications that executive compensation in large publicly traded firms often is excessive because of the feeble incentives of boards of directors to police compensation.''
 In the case decided by the appellate court, against Harris Associates, the managers of the Oakmark family of funds, the plaintiff, Jerry N. Jones, argued that the courts should consider evidence that Oakmont charges much more to the mutual funds than it charges to manage similar portfolios for institutional investors. 
 Judge Easterbrook rejected that comparison, saying that the courts should rely on competition to keep fees reasonable and that there were many possible reasons for the difference, like differing demands on managers' time.
 Judge Posner was unimpressed, quoting a study that concluded the difference existed because there was real competition in the institutional market but that mutual funds were captives of their managers, who normally start the funds and sell them to investors. 
 ''The panel opinion throws out some suggestions on why this difference may be justified,'' Judge Posner wrote, ''but the suggestions are offered purely as speculation, rather than anything having an evidentiary or empirical basis. And there is no doubt that the captive funds are indeed captive.''
 James C. Bradley, a lawyer in South Carolina who brought the suit, said he would ask the Supreme Court to review the case. The dissent by Judge Posner, with his emphasis that there is now a split between circuit courts, reads almost like an appellate brief, and could help to get this issue before the Supreme Court.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''Mutual funds are a component of the financial services industry, where abuses have been rampant,'' Richard A. Posner said.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE KAGAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Frank H. Easterbrook said trustees determine how much advisory services are worth.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HEATHER STONE/THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); JUDGES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); JURY TRIALS (72%); APPEALS COURTS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (68%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (66%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2008



392 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: 2-Nation Border Conference Discusses Gun Trafficking

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
The rising tide of guns flowing into Mexico from the United States, which is fueling some of the worst drug violence in Mexico in years, can be stopped only by cracking down on smugglers the way federal authorities hobbled the Mafia, the secretary of homeland security, Michael Chertoff, said Thursday.
 Mr. Chertoff gave that assessment in an interview as he attended a conference here of governors from United States and Mexican border states that ended Friday. 
 With thousands killed in Mexico in the past year as drug cartels battle for turf and supremacy, security along the border remained a major focus of the governors, who were under heavy guard by local, state and federal law enforcement officers.
 The Mexican governors sought to emphasize the United States' place as the chief recipient of drugs and exporter of weapons. United States officials have estimated that 90 percent to 95 percent of the weapons used in Mexico's drug violence come from the United States. 
 ''For Mexico the greatest worry we have in these times like we have never had before in our history is the organized crime problem,'' said Jose Natividad Gonzalez Paras, the governor of Nuevo Leon. ''But we have to make a binational effort, an international effort because the movement of drugs, the drug market, the finances along the length and breadth of the continent goes from South America to Mexico to the United States.''
 The governors on Friday pledged more cooperation among state law enforcement agencies to curb gun trafficking. For example, Arizona and the Mexican state of Sonora across its border, which has experienced heavy fighting among drug gangs, recently signed agreements to share intelligence and use databases to track stolen weapons.
 Mr. Chertoff spoke briefly at the conference, the 26th such gathering, but, deferring to the wishes of the hosts, steered clear of discussing some of his department's signature projects, like building fences along the border and the record level of deportations, mostly Mexican citizens.
 In the interview, he said the United States and Mexico were working on penetrating the smuggling organizations, an effort he called vital to dismantling them. Getting inside, Mr. Chertoff said, is particularly important because many of the weapons are bought by middlemen at gun shows and shops and then resold or delivered to the cartels, making them difficult to trace.
 ''If you don't have inside information or intelligence to begin to see who is directing this activity, all you're going to do is wind up arresting one person here, one person there,'' Mr. Chertoff said, likening such arrests to netting street drug dealers instead of kingpins.
 But, recalling his days prosecuting organized crime, he added: ''I also know it doesn't happen in a month. The cases we built over time took years.''
 The governors, pushed by the conference host, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, highlighted the effort to improve the environment and strengthen economic ties. They floated, among other proposals, the idea of an express toll lane at border crossings to ease congestion into the United States and pay for road and other improvements.
 ''Some people still think of the border only in negative terms,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger said at the opening ceremony at a theater near Universal Studios Hollywood. He added: ''Every time we turn on the TV or pick up the newspaper we are hit by stories about illegal immigrants and the problems they create. We see that all the time. But I also want people to know about the positive stories.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, center, and Michael Chertoff, homeland security secretary, right, at a meeting of governors.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DUNCAN McINTOSH/OFFICE OF GOV. ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER, VIA REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GUN CONTROL (78%); FIREARMS (78%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); CARTELS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); DEPORTATION (66%); GANGS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL CHERTOFF (90%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2008



393 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; ECONOMY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: A Slump for Some, An Opportunity for Others

BYLINE: By MARGARET FARLEY STEELE

 BODY:
NEVER mind all this talk about a slumping economy. Milton Rosenberg believes folks will splurge for thousand-dollar TVs and replacement appliances, and to prove it, this month he expanded his chain of Bernie's stores into Fairfield County.
 The regional chain begun by Rosenberg's father, Bernie, in Hartford 61 years ago grew to 15 with the recent opening of the Brookfield showroom, just in time to capitalize on Olympic fervor. 
 ''People still want entertainment,'' he said. ''In high definition, you'll see right down to the bottom of the pool. They'll show the TV off to their friends, and they'll want it, too.'' 
 Mr. Rosenberg, 62, of West Hartford, is bucking a trend. Just days after his store's Aug. 2 opening, state officials reported that the number of business startups in the first half of the year -- 16,618 -- was lower than at any time since 2000. The 2,999 businesses that folded in the second quarter of 2008 set a record for the quarter, too. 
 But the statistics did not worry Mr. Rosenberg. ''When the economy isn't good, opportunities arise,'' he said. Hence, the chance to buy the commercial property in Fairfield County. 
 Connecticut's secretary of state, Susan Bysiewicz, who released the data on Aug. 5, is more dismayed. ''They don't give you a very optimistic picture, and show that the national recession has clearly hit Connecticut,'' she said in a telephone interview. ''We've had such a significant drop-off in starts and sustained increase in failures that I know businesses in Connecticut are having a very difficult time.''
 Her office does not categorize closings, but she has heard that restaurants, retailers and manufacturers are struggling the most, she said. The failures, she added, are not regional, but reflect a general downturn statewide.
 Time Warner Cable announced this month that it would move all 220 Stamford employees to New York and two Southern cities. Starbucks is closing five stores in Connecticut, and Liz Claiborne Inc. shut its Sigrid Olsen stores, including its Westport shop. 
 Although Ms. Bysiewicz is concerned about job growth, State Labor Department officials and some economists are more optimistic. 
 ''Sometimes when we go into a downturn, you see business starts rising because people who get laid off start up their own businesses,'' said Dennis Heffley, head of the economics department at the University of Connecticut in Storrs. It's still early in the cycle, he said. 
 John Tirinzonie, an economist for the State Department of Labor, said he believed that many closings involved one- and two-person operations. ''We've been lucky in Connecticut,'' he said. From June 2007 to June 2008, nonfarm jobs increased 0.3 percent and the labor force increased 1.4 percent. Jobs are down slightly from last December's record high, but increased by 3,600 from May to June.
 Education and health services accounted for much of the job growth -- 6,600 new jobs from June 2007 to June 2008. Government and professional, scientific and technical services showed increases. Construction, down slightly over last year, was still doing well, Mr. Tirinzonie said. Exports rose nearly 13 percent last year, he noted.
 Unemployment was up to 5.4 percent, from 4.4 percent a year earlier, and is now the highest in five years. 
 In terms of job growth since January, Connecticut outperformed the national average. In the Northeast, only Vermont and New Hampshire outpaced it, Mr. Tirinzonie said. 
 Still, when they are faced with the highest utility prices in the continental United States and the steep cost of gasoline, health care and insurance, Ms. Bysiewicz said, entrepreneurs are reluctant to leave the security of corporate life.
 A Stamford woman who co-founded Power Marketing Partners in Stamford in 2006 left the seven-person firm last April because of burdensome health care costs. 
 ''I gave up my dream of independence and went to work for a very large company,'' said the woman, Lynne Kudzy, 52, now a senior vice president at Health Science Communications in New York. The trade-off? She went from paying $1,000 a month for health and dental coverage for herself to $160 a month for ''a far better plan,'' and she comes out ahead, even with the need to commute. 
 Besides untamable health care and energy costs, Fairfield County's expensive housing and heavy traffic hampered Power Marketing's expansion. ''We would interview college grads and they would say, 'Where am I going to live?' '' Ms. Kudzy said. ''They end up so far away, it takes forever to get here. It's so difficult to function in this state.'' 
 Joan McDonald, commissioner of the State Department of Economic and Community Development, acknowledged that Connecticut was facing challenging economic times, but said that the legislature and the governor had acted positively -- reactively and proactively. 
 The state's diverse economy -- pharmaceuticals, insurance, biotech, aerospace and financial services, rather than just manufacturing -- ''is helpful in weathering tough times,'' Ms. McDonald said.
 Other positive signs: productivity per worker and gross domestic product. ''We have one of the most educated work forces, extremely high productivity, extremely high valuated industries, and, even though employment is anemic, our state G.D.P. is growing,'' said Stan McMillen, an economist who works with Ms. McDonald. 
 The state's per capita real G.D.P. of $51,911 for 2007 was second in the country, behind Delaware, according to the United States Bureau of Economic Analysis.
 But for all of Connecticut's strengths, the national economy remains a wild card. Scheduled subprime mortgage resets for 2009, housing foreclosures (for which the state ranked 19th nationally in the second quarter, according to the online service RealtyTrac), the credit crisis and ''relentlessly rising energy and food prices'' could affect Connecticut, Mr. Heffley, of the University of Connecticut, said. 
 ''If the national economy doesn't pick up by the end of the year, all states will feel serious effects,'' he said. But if oil and gasoline prices continue their recent decline and things look brighter, people might resume their spending. ''Psychology is important, and the most unstable element,'' he said.
 What will it take to improve the business climate? The legislature should reconsider utility deregulation, and Congress and the president must encourage renewable and alternative energy, Ms. Bysiewicz said. ''You can see why companies go south, where utilities are cheaper,'' she said.
 But despite complaints about the high cost of business, the state remains No. 1 for per capita income, and businesses still come here, Mr. Heffley said. 
 For now, he and Ms. McDonald believe that Connecticut can hold its own. 
 ''We haven't been hurt as bad as some other states in the housing market,'' Mr. Heffley said. ''Prices may have softened, but we're not seeing the bursting of the bubble or the high foreclosures of California. The economy in Connecticut appears to have slowed, but I remain somewhat optimistic things will start to improve by the end of the year.'' 
 As Ms. McDonald put it, ''Connecticut's boom may not have been as great as Nevada's or California's, but that means our landing is a little softer.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BRANCHING OUT: Milton Rosenberg, the owner of Bernie's electronics stores, at his newly opened Brookfield branch. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS MCDONALD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CT1)
ON THE MOVE: Lynne Kudzy left the Stamford company she co-founded, Power Marketing Partners, to take a job in New York City. Her health coverage costs fell to $160 a month from $1,000.
 SIGNS OF THE TIMES: At left, the Sigrid Olsen women's clothing shop in Westport that was closed for business after Liz Claiborne Inc. decided this year to close the 54-store retail chain. In Norwalk, a house in foreclosure is on the market. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THOMAS MCDONALD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CT4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (90%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); RETAILERS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); TRENDS (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); STARTUPS (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); LAYOFFS (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (65%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (62%)

COMPANY: FIFTH & PACIFIC COS INC (81%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (52%)

TICKER: FNP (NYSE) (81%); TWC (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (81%); NAICS424320 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & FURNISHINGS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (81%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



394 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: The Cost of Retail Survival in New York: 99[#x203a]. Or Is It 98[#x203a]?

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WILSON

 BODY:
Baba Diouf, a Harlem shopkeeper, has carved a living out of a single penny, snatched in broad daylight from a competitor's discount store in a fiendish scheme to lure business a few yards north on Frederick Douglass Boulevard. 
 The competitor's store was called New Futa 99[#x203a] Plus. 
 The sign Mr. Diouf hung outside his new store read Bab's 98-cent Plus Discount Store. 
 ''I thought, 'Why can't I do a penny shorter? Go 98?' '' said Mr. Diouf, an immigrant from Senegal. ''Because I'm uptown. The further you go uptown, the less people have money. Maybe that penny short will catch them.'' 
 It's a minor but telling skirmish in the world of the New York City 99-cent store, that hyperactive grandchild of the square-jawed five-and-dime, a place where you were less likely to run into James Dean than, say, the extra playing Bystander No. 3.
 They seem to have been around forever, something that could be counted on. But times are tough, and Mr. Diouf's strategy is just one gambit. Other retailers, the big boys, just scratch off yesterday's price tag and slap on a slightly higher one. For 99-cent stores, the whole point -- the building itself -- is the price tag. 
 This is the chief reason the 99-cent promise is becoming more and more of an empty one -- as both Mr. Diouf's and his competitor's signs prove. The stores have fallen back on a bait-and-switch trick, luring customers with the sign, only to reveal, amid more expensive items, a grim 99-cent row of little-girl barrettes, shiny stickers and single rolls of toilet paper perhaps best suited for sanding furniture. 
 And so the 99-cent store marketing plan -- which could not be simpler -- is evolving and contorting in all sorts of ways.
 In Crown Heights, Brooklyn, a sign on a store clearly used to read, ''99 cents or less,'' but the last word has been crossed out and replaced with the word ''plus.''
 In Park Slope, at 99[#x203a] Plus Bazar, where everything once cost 99 cents, more and more little ''1'' numerals are appearing on price stickers, spreading from shelf to shelf like a pox. ''We used to have beautiful things for 99 cents,'' said the owner, Robert Tayeh, 51. ''Whoever thought up 99 cents, they made money. We're just trying to pay the bills.'' 
 In Harlem's 98-cent store, Mr. Diouf said he had put a lot of thought into his sign. ''I didn't put '98-cent store,' '' he said. ''I put '98-plus' -- '98' and a small 'plus.' Little, little 'plus.' '' 
 Then he worked on his pitch, delivered in his accented English and with a broad smile: ''I said, 'I'm saving you a penny. If you buy 10 items a day, that's $365 a year I'm saving you.'' (That is his plan's only weak spot -- one would have to buy 100 items a day for that result -- but he is a busy man and can be forgiven for kicking a decimal point over one spot.) 
 The strategy seems to be working. For starters, in an industry of fast comings and goings, he remains in business, his small, eccentric selection -- dish soap, playing cards, feminine hygiene products, that toilet paper -- the scene of a steady trade one afternoon last week. A young girl came in with a dead BlackBerry device and asked if he carried chargers. The girl lived nearby, and he asked about her sister while he dug around in a box, found a charger, and gave it to her.
 The price? $5. 
 ''The whole thing, now, is the 'plus,' '' Mr. Diouf said. He makes his living above the 98-cent mark, even if that is what draws the customers. People place orders for things they need, and Mr. Diouf tracks them down. His most expensive item is a queen-size comforter, for $68.
 New Futa, the 99-cent store a few storefronts to the south, is about twice as large, with a far greater variety inside. The owner, Alpha Bah, 27, enjoying his lunch in the back of the store, with a box of detergent for a table, shrugged off the threat of his penny-less neighbor. 
 ''He don't carry as much stuff as we carry,'' he said. ''Like laundry soap. He doesn't have enough of those. His space is not that big.'' 
 He said that his store, like Mr. Diouf's, depends on the more expensive goods. ''The stuff we were selling for 99, we sell for $1.19, $1.29. Like the plastic cups. There won't be that much stuff that is 99. Just school supplies. They don't go up.'' 
 Other stores seem to have resorted to throwing a blur of small numbers at the customer in hopes something sticks. Take the Good Luck store on Ditmas Avenue in Parkville, Brooklyn. It covers everything inside, from the glue traps to the little nonstick Dutch ovens, with a busy sign that really says nothing: ''59[#x203a] 79[#x203a] 99[#x203a] and Up.'' 
 Inside, asked to produce an item that cost 59 cents, the cashier, who gave his name only as Charles, pointed to the familiar rolls of Marcal toilet paper. They were marked 79 cents.
 ''But I sell 59 cents,'' he explained, shortly before asking this reporter to leave.
 Nearby, at Brooklyn Discount & Gift Shop, a worker, Sooma Haris, 25, said business was slow. ''Prices are going up,'' he said. ''No lose. No lose. Up, up, up, up.'' His sign is like Charles's, but perhaps to account for inflation, it bumped things up a dime: ''69[#x203a] 89[#x203a] 99[#x203a] & Up.'' He was asked why he didn't simply say, ''69[#x203a] and Up,'' which would tell the same story, but he answered with a blank stare. 
 Back at New Futa, Mr. Bah said those sorts of creative pricing strategies were bad ideas, and that one should stick to the magic number.
 That would be 99. 
 ''Ninety-seven is no good,'' he said. ''If you do 97, they're thinking most stuff is less than 97, like 59, 89.'' 
 But for some reason, he said, customers at a 99-cent store expect the lowest price to be 99 cents. 
 Mr. Tayeh, in Park Slope, said his most popular items were his least profitable. ''Toilet paper and paper towels,'' he said. He charges the customer almost exactly what he pays for the rolls, acting as a humble middleman. ''We make zero, zero profit on it. Zero profit.'' 
 He hopes that customers buy something else, too; his costs have risen sharply. ''Ninety-nine cents is going to disappear soon,'' he said. ''We used to pay 60 cents, and it went up to 78 cents, 82 cents.'' 
 The ideal 99-cent store customer materialized in Mr. Diouf's 98-cent doorway on Tuesday afternoon, in the form of a woman old and stooped and leaning on a cane. She did not enter, but asked if he had any plant food. 
 Mr. Diouf said no, and suggested she try the 99-cent store. He refers many customers down the block, in hopes they remember his high-road largess. It's like a shoestring version of ''Miracle on 34th Street,'' in which the Santa at Macy's created good faith by sending customers to Gimbels if they couldn't find what they wanted. 
 The woman on the cane was about to leave, but turned and, as if helpless to some gravitational pull, said, ''Give me two pairs of stockings.'' He picked two packages off a shelf and carried them out to her. She shook her head: ''That's too black. Give me something lighter.'' 
 He did, and she asked for two ashtrays, which he found and handed her. Still outside, she handed him a bill, but as he walked toward the register, she called, ''You got nail polish?'' 
 He did. 
 From no plant food to five bucks in the till, all in about 60 seconds. The guys at the big stores make a lot more, but they don't know what it is to work for every single dollar the way Mr. Diouf just did.
 There was a time when Mr. Diouf seemed about to become a victim of his own pricing ruse. 
 ''Three years ago, a guy put a 97-cent store next to me,'' he said, laughing. ''They went out of business! Maybe it was that penny.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The 99-cent promise draws customers into the store, like this one in the Bronx, but most of the merchandise costs more. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



395 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Illusions About Inflation

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT. 
Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of MarketWatch. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THERE is widespread concern that high inflation -- running at a 5.6 percent annual rate in the 12 months through July -- could hurt the stock market. But this investor worry may be yet another example of money illusion: the confusion of nominal prices with their inflation-adjusted equivalent.
 The notion that inflation is bad for stocks appears to make a good deal of sense. What's more, there is reason to believe that this perception -- mistaken though it may be -- has sometimes driven down stock prices. 
 With inflation at 6 percent, for example, a dollar of profit that a company will earn a year from now is worth only 94 cents in today's dollars. But if inflation were just 1 percent, as it was in early 2002, that dollar earned a year from now would be worth 99 cents today. Such differences add up, especially as investors consider a company's earning power over many years.
 Put a different way, if other things are equal, the value of a company's future earnings will be lower to the extent that inflation is higher. That would make the company's stock less valuable, and if investors went no further in their analysis, stock prices would deserve to decline.
 But other things are not equal when it comes to stocks and inflation. Over the last eight decades, corporate profits have tended to grow faster when inflation is higher. In such periods, companies have been able to pass along higher costs to their customers. As a result, even though higher inflation leads to a greater discounting of future years' earnings, those earnings tend to be bigger than they would have been otherwise. The net result is that the current value of a company's future earnings remains relatively stable in the face of rising inflation.
 This was the strong conclusion of a study conducted five years ago by John Campbell and Tuomo Vuolteenaho, both economics professors at Harvard at the time. (Mr. Campbell is still at Harvard; Mr. Vuolteenaho is not. Both are now partners at Arrowstreet Capital, a money management firm based in Boston.) Their study, ''Inflation Illusion and Stock Prices,'' was in the May 2004 issue of the American Economic Review. 
 In an interview, Professor Campbell emphasized that their study does not mean investors are wrong to worry about developments like high oil prices, which may be damaging the economy in specific ways while also contributing to inflation. But, he said, ''inflation should not be an additional source of concern above and beyond those other developments.''
 Of course, investors suffering from money illusion could knock down stock prices further than they deserve to be. Historically, this has sometimes occurred as inflation has begun to heat up, as investors extrapolate too low a growth rate for corporate profits into the future. 
 ONE of the best-known illustrations occurred during the high-inflation 1970s. For the 10 years through 1979, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index had an annualized gain of just 1.6 percent, a far cry from the historical average of close to 10 percent. That dismal performance helped to lower the index's price-to-earnings ratio to a low of 6.8 by the end of that decade, according to data from Robert J. Shiller, the Yale finance professor. The comparable ratio today is around 20.
 Franco Modigliani, who in the late 1970s was a finance professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, realized that money illusion was a major factor in the market's dismal performance in that decade. In a 1979 article written with Richard A. Cohn, then also an M.I.T. professor, he argued that stocks, in fact, were a good long-term hedge against inflation and that the stock market was therefore significantly undervalued. The strong bull market of the 1980s and 1990s vindicated their argument, and in 1985 Professor Modigliani was the Nobel laureate in economics. (Both men are now deceased.) 
 There's no way to know, of course, whether investors will make the same mistake in the next few years as they did in the 1970s, pushing stock prices down to unjustifiably low levels. But even if they did, it doesn't necessarily mean stocks deserve to be cheaper when inflation is high.
 As Clifford S. Asness, managing principal at AQR Capital Management, a hedge fund firm, put it in an e-mail message, ''It is a strange leap to observe that investors consistently make an error, and then recommend that error to current investors based on precedent.''
 In any case, if inflation keeps heating up and investors fall victim to money illusion, stocks may well decline for a while. But if history is any guide, such weakness would signal an excellent long-term buying opportunity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); DAMAGES (87%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); INTERVIEWS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



396 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Experts Urge U.S. to Increase Icebreaker Fleet in Arctic Waters

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
A growing array of military leaders, Arctic experts and lawmakers say the United States is losing its ability to patrol and safeguard Arctic waters even as climate change and high energy prices have triggered a burst of shipping and oil and gas exploration in the thawing region.
 The National Academy of Sciences, the Coast Guard and others have warned over the past several years that the United States' two 30-year-old heavy icebreakers, the Polar Sea and Polar Star, and one smaller ice-breaking ship devoted mainly to science, the Healy, are grossly inadequate. Also, the Polar Star is out of service. 
 And this spring, the leaders of the Pentagon's Pacific Command, Northern Command and Transportation Command strongly recommended in a letter that the Joint Chiefs of Staff endorse a push by the Coast Guard to increase the country's ability to gain access to and control its Arctic waters.
 In the meantime, a resurgent Russia has been busy expanding its fleet of large oceangoing icebreakers to around 14, launching a large conventional icebreaker in May and, last year, the world's largest icebreaker, named 50 Years of Victory, the newest of its seven nuclear-powered, pole-hardy ships. 
 Adm. Thad W. Allen, the commandant of the Coast Guard, who toured Alaska's Arctic shores two weeks ago with the homeland security secretary, Michael Chertoff, said that whatever mix of natural and human factors is causing the ice retreats, the Arctic is clearly opening to commerce -- and potential conflict and hazards -- like never before.
 ''All I know is, there is water where it didn't used to be, and I'm responsible for dealing with that,'' Admiral Allen said in a recent interview. Given the 8 or 10 years it would take to build even one icebreaker, he added, ''I think we're at a crisis point on making a decision.''
 The cost of building icebreakers and keeping the older vessels operating until the new ones have been launched could easily top $1.5 billion, according to several estimates. Arguments for new ships include the strategic, like maintaining a four-seasons ability to patrol northern waters, and the practical, like being able to quickly reach a disabled cruise ship or an oil spill in ice-clogged waters, Admiral Allen said. 
 Even with the increasing summer retreats of sea ice, which many polar scientists say probably are being driven in part by global warming caused by humans, there will always be enough ice in certain parts of the Arctic to require icebreakers. Admiral Allen and members of the presidential U.S. Arctic Research Commission have been pressing lawmakers for support and urging the White House to issue a presidential directive that emphasizes the need for increased oversight of the Arctic and for new ships. 
 Shipping traffic in the far north is not tracked precisely. But experts provided telling snapshots of maritime activity to legislators and other officials from Arctic countries at an international conference last week in Fairbanks, Alaska. For example, Mead Treadwell, who attended the conference and is an Alaskan businessman and the chairman of the research commission, said officials were told that more than 200 cruise ships circled Greenland in 2007, up from 27 in 2004. 
 Lawson W. Brigham, chairman of the three-year Arctic Marine Shipping Assessment that is scheduled to finish work this year, told the gathering that more than 5,400 vessels of 100 tons or larger operated in Arctic waters in the summer of 2004. During that summer there were 102 trips in the Northwest Passage and five complete transits of that legendary route, he said. 
 The growing Pentagon support for the Coast Guard, which is within the Department of Homeland Security, followed several highly publicized maneuvers by Russia aimed at cementing its position as the Arctic's powerhouse, including sending a pair of small submarines to the seabed at the North Pole a year ago. 
 White House officials said they have been reviewing Arctic policies for several years and were nearly finished with a new security policy on the region -- the first since 1994. Bush administration officials said last week that it could be issued within a few weeks, but they declined to discuss what it would say.
 The enduring question is where the money would come from for rehabilitating the older ships and building new ones. The Department of Homeland Security is still mainly focused on preventing terrorist attacks. The Coast Guard is stretched thin, Admiral Allen said, protecting facilities in the Persian Gulf, seeking drug smugglers and patrolling coastal waters elsewhere. 
 In Congress, the issue has mainly been championed by lawmakers from Alaska and Washington State. The Polar Sea, Polar Star and Healy are based in Seattle. 
 As early as 2001, the Navy issued reports saying that it had limited ability to operate ships and planes reliably in the Arctic. But with two costly wars under way, the region has remained a low priority with Navy budgets for polar analysis declining. 
 The letter from the three military commands to the Joint Chiefs last spring said reliable icebreakers were essential to controlling northern waters and to maintaining American research stations in Antarctica. But the Arctic was clearly the commands' biggest concern, with the letter citing ''climate change and increasing economic activity'' as reasons for upgrading the icebreaker fleet. 
 With no current program aimed at upgrading ships and no new ones planned, the letter said, ''The nation's icebreaking capability has diminished substantially and is at risk of being unable to support our national interests in the Arctic regions.''
 On Friday, a Pentagon spokesman said that the military's leadership recognized the importance of the issue and was arranging for Admiral Allen to give a presentation to the Joint Chiefs on Arctic security this year.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 24, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article and a picture caption last Sunday about the lagging ability of the United States to patrol Arctic waters misstated the size of the Healy, an ice-breaking vessel used mainly for science. Though it is not designed to crush the thickest ice, the Healy is longer and heavier -- not smaller -- than the United States' two heavy icebreakers, the Polar Sea and the Polar Star.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An icebreaking container ship commissioned by a Russian mining company. Russia has around 14 large oceangoing icebreakers, including the world's largest one. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENS BUETTNER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); OIL SPILLS (72%); OIL EXPLORATION (72%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (72%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (72%); CRUISES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (58%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL CHERTOFF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARCTIC (98%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



397 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2007 words

HEADLINE: At Least the Airsickness Bags Are Free

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD. 
Kathryn Carlson contributed reporting from Chicago.

 BODY:
AS far as airlines are concerned, you are no longer just a passenger. You are an opportunity to raise ''ancillary revenue.'' And when it comes to charging for things that were once free, the sky's the limit.
 In just a few short months, the airlines have discovered to their glee that their customers are willing to pay for most everything from checked bags to soft drinks to pillows and blankets -- and are doing so without much fuss. With that knowledge in hand, the airlines aren't about to stop.
 From United to JetBlue, from Delta to US Airways (which Time magazine recently called the industry's ''stingiest'' airline), marketing staffs are coming up with ways to extract more money from travelers' wallets.
 The opportunities seem enormous: United thinks that it can raise as much as $1 billion a year from this new menu of fees, which the industry has called an a la carte approach. 
 The airlines are unapologetic, with a ready excuse in the form of record jet fuel prices, which topped $4 a gallon this summer. ''Airlines need to have a way to recover the cost of their product,'' said Edward Bastian, the president and chief financial officer of Delta. 
 Fast-rising oil prices kicked in the door to higher ticket prices and other fees that the airlines couldn't wedge ajar in recent years, thanks to a plethora of Internet travel sites that passengers use to find the cheapest fares. Most of the new fees apply to coach tickets on domestic flights.
 Many travelers seem willing to accept the airlines' explanation that consumers must shoulder the burden of higher fuel prices. ''We all understand that gas and oil are so expensive,'' said Kay Kelly, 57, a physical therapist who traveled from Florida to Fargo, N.D., earlier this month for a class reunion and family visit. ''There's only so much they can do to stay competitive, and we don't get too riled up over the fees.''
 Voicing a sentiment that the airlines must hope other travelers will embrace, she continued: ''If we're going to fly, we're going to fly -- and whatever it is, it is. It wouldn't prevent us from going where we want to go.''
 Travelers' willingness to accept the fees isn't attributable solely to their acknowledgment of higher gas prices. Consumers have seen service charges popping up on everything from tickets to Broadway shows and rock concerts to amenities on cruise ships. Across the economy, marketers have turned the practice of tacking on extras into an art form, softening up airline passengers for what now seems to have been inevitable.
 Another factor is at play, too. Overnight, the 9/11 attacks turned travel from an adventure into a hardship, with intrusive security checks that passengers must endure if they want to board a plane. 
 Add it all up, and the landscape for air travelers has changed drastically. The shift causes veteran customer service experts to shake their heads. Mary Gilly, a professor of marketing at the University of California, Irvine, said: ''I think the airlines are being pretty disingenuous calling it 'a la carte pricing.' Please. This is not a Chinese menu.''
 Yet the airlines seem to have turned a deaf ear to any grumbling that is heard in airport corridors and that resounds on industry Web sites. That's not surprising, considering the money they've generated in a short time by charging for former freebies. JetBlue collected $40 million in the second quarter by charging extra for seats with more legroom. United, meanwhile, expects to yield $275 million this year from charges for baggage.
 As they rearrange the dynamics of what customers can expect for their air fares, the carriers are looking at charging for everything from selecting a seat -- any seat, not just a window or aisle seat, or one with extra legroom -- to wireless Internet connections.
 They're also considering a new type of all-expenses-paid ticket that would include all the ''services'' for which they now charge extra. In other words, it would be an easy, one-stop way to pay for everything that was free just a few short months ago.
 THE word ''glamorous'' hasn't applied to air travel for quite some time. But passengers like Leo Lanoie, 59, a doctor in Prince Albert, Saskatchewan, remember when it did. He recalls merry flights when even coach-class travelers could drink all the cocktails they wanted, gratis, and when the only complaint was that Air Canada served merely steak, not a choice of entrees.
 Only five years ago, airline passengers could expect a free meal on many flights, along with a pillow, a blanket and a choice of magazines. These days, even business class can be less plush. The linen tablecloths were missing on a recent Northwest Airlines flight from Detroit to London -- the catering crew did not put them on board the plane, one flight attendant explained -- and the warm bread promised for breakfast on the printed menu turned out to be a cold cheese Danish.
 BUT those are minor complaints, compared with the major adjustments that passengers have had to make of late. First, five airlines decided in April to begin charging passengers $25 to check a second bag and even more to check a third bag, depending on the carrier. Then, US Airways, American and United announced that travelers would pay $15 to check their first suitcase. (Spirit Airlines, a low-fare carrier, already charged for baggage checks.)
 ''I suppose people are generally acting like they're O.K. with the fees because they don't feel like they have a choice,'' said Mr. Lanoie, who flew through Chicago on United recently. ''All the airlines are doing it, so it's not as though you can just take your business elsewhere.'' 
 Such a sense of helplessness is widespread, said Banwari Mittal, a professor of marketing at Northern Kentucky University and an expert on consumer behavior. 
 ''Consumers will get angry when they find a target of retribution, which is a specific company or a specific person,'' Professor Mittal said. ''But when it's the macro environment, there's nothing to get angry at.''
 Moreover, passengers have learned that venting their anger at an airline employee means that they may be escorted off the premises by federal authorities, Professor Gilly said. ''You complain at Starbucks, you get a freebie,'' she said, ''If you throw a fit at an airport, you could be picked up by the T.S.A.''
 That helps explain why even the most controversial changes, like a recent decision by US Airways to begin charging $1 for coffee and tea, and $2 for bottled water, have slipped through without much dissent. Before that charge took effect earlier this month, the flight attendants union at US Airways vowed that attendants would provide free beverages in order to calm irate passengers.
 Water riots, however, have failed to materialize, and the airline said in a recent employee newsletter that the change had come off without a hitch. ''The feedback? Pretty darn good!'' the airline declared in the newsletter, called AboutUS. 
 David Barger, the chief executive of JetBlue, took a similar tone when explaining his airline's decision to begin charging $7 for a pillow and blanket set on flights lasting two hours or more. ''It's a nice way to offer an amenity to our customers,'' he told Larry King on CNN last week, adding that because the kits contained a $5 coupon for a purchase at Bed Bath & Beyond, the net cost was really just $2.
 European airlines actually beat their American counterparts in adopting fee schedules that catch even some seasoned travelers off guard. 
 ''We were on a flight from Paris to Stockholm on SAS, and they charged us three euros ($4.45) for a bottle of water, and it wasn't even that big,'' said Christy Kuczak of Washington, D.C. 
 Ms. Kuczak, 31, an employee of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, said she was in line at an airport recently when passengers were told that they could be charged hundreds of dollars extra if their luggage weighed more than 100 pounds. (The standard bag weight is about 40 pounds.) ''You could hear everyone gasping, and looking at their bags, and wondering,'' Ms. Kuczak said.
 Even as many airlines embrace the fees, there have been holdouts. Continental Airlines still provides meals, pillows and blankets, although it joined the others in charging to check a second bag.
 Southwest Airlines, which carries the largest number of passengers within the United States, has staunchly resisted other airlines' efforts to impose new fees and charges and is using its decision as the basis for a marketing campaign.
 ''LUV'' -- the airline's stock ticker symbol -- ''is freedom from fees,'' Southwest declares on the front page of its Web site. It is not freedom from higher fares: Southwest, like other carriers, has raised its prices a number of times since the price of oil hit $100 a barrel in early January. 
 ''We decided we would make a strategic business decision that customers would rather deal with transparent pricing,'' said David Ridley, senior vice president for marketing and revenue management. The charges at other airlines are ''just a brand violation for us,'' he said.
 Southwest was the only major airline to earn a profit in the second quarter, when the other majors collectively lost $6 billion, so it can afford to be a holdout. And Mr. Ridley acknowledges that it is leaving easy money on the table at a time when other airlines' actions would give it cover. 
 One of the biggest questions for the industry is whether passengers will be so compliant if energy prices continue a recent decline.
 Jet fuel, which reached $4.26 a gallon in mid-July, dropped to $3.20 last week, according to the International Air Transport Association, reflecting a similar decline in gasoline prices. The decline prompted some Wall Street analysts to raise their ratings for shares in the major airlines, which they said would benefit from lower fuel prices, coupled with their new fees.
 Given that, Mr. Ridley says he believes that the airlines, which are grounding planes and cutting about 8 percent of their available seats this fall, will not rush to remove the charges, which he likens to ''fee heroin.'' 
 GERARD J. ARPEY, the chief executive of AMR, American's parent, says the latest fuel prices remain well above those of a year ago, when jet fuel cost $2.16 a gallon and oil was about $72 a barrel. ''We've gone from a Category 5 hurricane to a Category 4,'' said Mr. Arpey, whose airline was among the first to charge $15 to check a bag. ''The industry is still struggling enormously under the weight.''
 Delta, for its part, has maintained something of a middle ground. It has not charged passengers to check their first bag, although its two bigger competitors, American and United, are doing so. 
 To Delta, Mr. Bastian said, plane fare means ''a ticket, a bag, and a safe and reliable experience.''
 ''Beyond that,'' he added, ''we need to experiment and see what the additional experiences are that the traveling public will pay for and what they're not interested in paying for.'' 
 One likely next step is wireless Internet connections, which Delta, American and others plan to offer for about $10 to $13 a flight.
 ''We don't believe customers have really quite gotten the full impact of all these fees,'' Mr. Ridley said. When fliers arrive at airports for Thanksgiving or Christmas trips, their reaction ''is going to be, 'What is that?' '' he said.
 Southwest is betting that customers will turn to it as a refuge from fees, just as drivers shifted from big sport utility vehicles and pickups to smaller vehicles when gasoline prices reached $4 a gallon. There is no concrete proof just yet in terms of bookings, Mr. Ridley acknowledged.
 But that could happen if passengers reach a personal tipping point. For Beth Schroeder, 48, a lawyer in Los Angeles, that point would come if there were fees for two basic needs. ''Once they start charging for coffee and a carry-on, that's when I'll be frustrated,'' she said. ''That would be extreme.'' 
 For Ms. Schroeder, it's already one down, one to go. 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 24, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about airline fees for previously free services misstated the age of Kay Kelly, a physical therapist who said the fees would not dissuade her from air travel. She is 57, not 37.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert Vigfusson, right, and Christy Kuczak at Reagan National Airport. Airlines have begun to charge travelers for in-flight amenities, at times even for coffee, bottled water and blankets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU2) DRAWING (DRAWING BY HAL MAYFORTH)(BU1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (87%); AIR FARES (78%); JET FUEL (78%); TICKET SALES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); CRUISES (73%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); SOFT DRINKS (56%); POP & ROCK (50%)

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (90%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (90%); SKY'S THE LIMIT (72%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (90%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (72%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FARGO, ND, USA (53%) NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



398 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: How Fuel Subsidies Drag Down a Nation

BYLINE: By ROBERT H. FRANK. 
Robert H. Frank is an economist at the Johnson School of Management at Cornell University. E-mail: rhfrank@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WHEN countries adopted bad economic policies in decades past, only their own citizens paid a price. In today's globalized economy, however, the burden falls more broadly.
 A case in point is the use of fuel subsidies to protect citizens of developing economies from rising prices. As Keith Bradsher reported in The New York Times last month, many emerging economies employ subsidies that keep domestic fuel prices far below the world price. As a result, these countries consume far more fuel than they would otherwise. 
 By one estimate, countries with fuel subsidies accounted for virtually the entire increase in worldwide oil consumption last year. Without this artificial demand stimulus, world oil prices would have been significantly lower. Earlier this summer, for example, world oil prices fell by $4 a barrel on news that reduced subsidies would increase Chinese domestic fuel prices by about 17 percent. 
 It would surely be unrealistic to expect other governments to abandon subsidies just so Americans who drive S.U.V.'s and live in big houses could benefit from lower world energy prices. But those governments might want to reconsider their policy in the light of overwhelming economic evidence that the subsidies create net losses even for their ostensible beneficiaries. 
 To be sure, higher fuel prices produce economic suffering. The unfortunate reality, however, is that when the price of an imported resource rises in the world market, buyers must take a hit. Subsidizing fuel does nothing to reduce the inevitable suffering, and actually makes it worse. 
 The problem is that when the price of a good is below its cost, people use it wastefully. In the case of a gallon of gasoline, the cost to a country is the value of every additional sacrifice that its use entails. That includes not just the price of buying the gallon in the world market -- say, $4 -- but also external costs, like dirtier air and increased congestion. The external costs are often hard to measure but are nonetheless substantial. With reasonable estimates factored in for them, the true cost of using a gallon is clearly greater than $4. By contrast, the price of gasoline to users is simply the amount they pay at the pump. With a $2-a-gallon subsidy in effect, gasoline bought in the world market at $4 would sell for $2, or more than $2 less than its true economic cost. 
 Consider how this difference might affect a trucker's decision about whether to accept a hauling job. A rational trucker will apply the basic cost-benefit test, which says that something is worth doing if, and only if, its benefit is at least as great as its cost. Suppose the job in question requires 1,000 gallons of fuel, available at the subsidized price of $2 a gallon, for a total fuel outlay of $2,000. If the cost of the trucker's time and equipment are, say, $1,000 for the trip, his narrow interests dictate accepting the job if the shipper is willing to pay at least $3,000. Suppose the shipper is willing to pay that amount but not more. 
 The problem is that if the trucker accepts the job at that price, the country as a whole will be worse off by more than $2,000. Although the $3,000 fee would cover his own costs, the government would end up paying $2,000 in additional subsidies for the 1,000 gallons consumed. On top of that, the trip would generate additional pollution and congestion costs. So the fact that the subsidy encouraged him to accept the job means that its net effect is equivalent to throwing more than $2,000 onto a bonfire. 
 Waste is always bad. Anyone who doubts it need only remember that when the economic pie grows, it is always possible for everyone to have a larger slice than before. Using fuel for activities whose costs exceed their benefits makes the economic pie smaller.
 Subsidy proponents cite the firestorm of political protest that would erupt if fuel were to sell at the international market price. That fuel subsidies are wasteful, however, implies that there must be less costly ways to keep the peace.
 Consider again our trucker who accepted a job that barely covered the cost of his time, equipment and subsidized fuel. Instead of paying $2,000 to subsidize his fuel, the government could give him a tax cut of, say, $1,000, and use the remaining $1,000 to help pay for public services. Because the trucker's earnings from the hauling job were only enough to cover his costs at the subsidized fuel price, he would be $1,000 better off with the tax cut alone than with the fuel subsidy. The additional support for public services would augment this benefit. In short, a tax cut is always a better way to keep political protest at bay because, unlike a fuel subsidy, it does not encourage shipments whose costs exceed their benefits.
 IF a United States president urged developing economies to eliminate fuel subsidies because they result in higher energy prices for Americans, the conversation would probably end very quickly. But this conversation might be reframed. 
 A good place to start would be to heed the same advice we'd like others to follow. Emerging economies are not the only ones in which prices at the pump substantially understate the true social cost of fuel. For instance, although the United States doesn't have direct fuel subsidies, existing fuel taxes significantly understate the pollution and congestion costs associated with additional fuel use. Adopting some variant of a tax on carbon, as both leading presidential candidates have proposed, would help eliminate this discrepancy. 
 That would set the stage for our next president to explain to other leaders why eliminating fuel subsidies would make the overall economic pie larger. Because the resulting efficiency gains can be redistributed so that everyone gets a bigger slice than before, the idea should be fairly easy to sell. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (74%); IMPORT PRICES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



399 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: A Journalist In B-School Wonderland

BYLINE: By HARRY HURT III

 BODY:
PHILIP DELVES BROUGHTON lived out a fantasy. 
 In 2004, dismayed over the gloomy state of newspaper journalism and his own career prospects, Mr. Broughton, then 32, quit his job as Paris bureau chief for The Daily Telegraph of London and enrolled in Harvard Business School. As he recalls in ''Ahead of the Curve: Two Years at Harvard Business School'' (Penguin Press), his motives were a mixture of idealism and self-interest. 
 ''I went there to recover from writing, to stop looking at the world around me as a source of potential stories,'' he says. ''I wanted to learn about business in order to gain control of my own financial fate, and more important, my time. I was tired of living at the end of a cellphone, prey to an employer's demands.'' 
 ''Ahead of the Curve'' is a cautionary tale for those who believe that the grass -- and their future paycheck -- would be greener if only they could jump the fence into the rarefied world of the Masters of Business Administration.
 Much of the insider information about Harvard Business School and its case-study method has been reported previously in other books and magazine articles. But Mr. Broughton goes beyond the regurgitation of classroom notes on management techniques to offer a sociological critique of the school's stated mission ''to educate leaders who make a difference in the world.''
 ''Business schools no longer produce just business leaders,'' Mr. Broughton says. ''M.B.A.'s determine the lives many of us will lead, the hours we work, the vacations we get, the culture we consume, the health care we receive, and the education provided to our children.''
 So who are these future leaders and where do they come from? Although Mr. Broughton changes names and biographical details in describing his 895 classmates, he pulls no punches in his characterizations. Many of his peers, he says, hailed from one of the ''three M'' backgrounds: Mormons, former military officers, and former McKinsey & Company consultants. There was also a large contingent of so-called ''international'' students -- Indians, other Asians, South Americans -- most of whom had actually gone to colleges and/or high schools in the United States.
 A second-year student who delivered a welcoming speech ''told us that simply by getting into H.B.S., 'You've won,' '' Mr. Broughton reports. ''From now on it was all about how we decided to govern our lives. There was something creepy about his Kennedyesque cadences and his well-practiced call to arms. But what he said would be repeated throughout my time at Harvard. H.B.S. was a brand as much as a school, and by attending, we were associating ourselves with one of the greatest brands in business.''
 Mr. Broughton stresses that ''in many ways, I loved my two years at Harvard.'' His teachers were, ''for the most part, inspiring and committed,'' he says, and ''smart and considerate'' is how he describes his classmates.
 ''For me, and everyone I knew, Harvard changed the view of our futures and the possibilities available to us through business,'' he observes. Yet among his fellow students, he also saw evidence of ''arrogance'' and an obnoxious ''sense of entitlement.'' 
 Lacking a financial background, Mr. Broughton had to struggle to keep up in class. He says that before enrolling, he had never even opened the Excel program on his computer, much less created a spreadsheet. During lectures in the introductory finance course required of all students, he often felt as if the professor were speaking to him in unintelligible ''dog whistles.'' And he was puzzled by an accounting course in which the professor made distinctions among book accounting, tax accounting and ''the search for economic truth.''
 Along the way, Mr. Broughton says, he discovered that his classmates generally operated in only two modes: ''deadly serious'' and ''frat boy.'' He describes parties at which students slurped vodka poured down a channel in a block of ice called ''the booze luge.'' He recounts serving as the auctioneer at a charity fund-raiser during which he obligingly stripped off his shirt and tie and allowed himself to be handcuffed to a ''muscular bond trader'' as his classmates brayed with delight.
 Mr. Broughton also details a scheme for acquiring ''financial aid BMWs'': Upon being accepted at the business school, some students deliberately emptied their bank accounts to buy BMWs for themselves. Since they were not required to list vehicles among assets on their financial aid applications, they often qualified for extra financial aid. ''So basically, Harvard buys you a BMW,'' a classmate informed Mr. Broughton.
 AS fate would have it, Mr. Broughton says he ended up as the only person in his 90-member class section not to receive a job offer upon graduation. Married and the father of two young children, he shelved an entrepreneurial idea for opening a high-end laundry in favor of doing some media and film consulting and returning to his journalistic roots to write this book. 
 Mr. Broughton says he was glad to have learned ''the language of business, the modes of thinking.'' But he also contends that ''business needs to relearn its limits'' and that the business school should revise its stated mission of educating leaders for the world at large.
 ''H.B.S. need only promise to educate students in the process and management of business,'' he says. ''It would be a noble and accommodating goal and would dilute the perception of the school and its graduates as a megalomaniacal, self-sustaining elite.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (92%); JOURNALISM (91%); WRITERS (90%); NEWS REPORTING (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); SOCIOLOGY (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%); CASE STUDIES (51%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (50%)

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008



400 of 786 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Women's Fashion Magazine; Pg. 250

LENGTH: 2423 words

HEADLINE: CAN LIZ CLAIBORNE GET ITS GROOVE BACK?

BYLINE: BY CATHY HORYN

 BODY:
Liz Claiborne was a plain-spoken Jane. 
 She was, in fact, born Anne Elisabeth Jane Claiborne. A high school dropout and a descendant of a Louisiana governor, she was 19 and ornery when, on a trip to New York with her parents, she announced to her banker father, ''I'm staying.'' He gave her $50 and said, ''Good luck.''
 In a way, this self-sufficiency says everything about the clothes that Claiborne would eventually design for practical-thinking working women like herself. If you don't know what New York was like in the late '40s, when Claiborne arrived, it happens that E. B. White wrote his great essay ''Here Is New York'' then, and he described the 7 o'clock hum of the city on a summer night, the drifts of conversation, the taste of a little garlic in a green salad, the fans that ''intone the prayer for cool salvation.'' A woman with Claiborne's drive and intuitive sense -- she had thought at one time of becoming a painter -- would certainly have responded to the sea of women moving toward Macy's or the Empire 
 State Building and flowing out again at night, the secretaries and shopgirls and telephone operators. It sounds glamorous, in the way that black-and-white movies set in New York always seem glamorous: ''Love With the Proper Stranger,'' women in straight-line dresses and pageboys, men in poplin raincoats. But Claiborne, who got her start in the back rooms of Seventh Avenue, at Tina Leser and Youth Guild, knew that it was not glamorous. ''American women are not the chicest things in the world,'' she once said. She kept that in mind when she and her husband, Arthur Ortenberg, started Liz Claiborne Inc. in 1976. She designed clothes that would not look out of place on millions of New Yorkers. Imagine the simple genius of that.
 Although Americans are more inclined to break new ground than plow up the old, Liz Claiborne is the ideal brand for a revival. For a good decade it has been coasting along, making money for the $5 billion Claiborne corporation, embarrassing no one who wears the clothes but not really surprising anyone. 
 It had competition: fast fashion, the Internet, telecommuting, hipsters, ugly Bettys, luxurymongers, yoga. Liz felt old. Liz wasn't cool. Still, there are two generations of American women, beginning with those who graduated from high school and college in the mid-'70s, who connected with Liz Claiborne. Maybe it was a twill skirt they needed for a job interview, or the right navy blazer, or a summer dress in washed linen with rolled-up sleeves that fit as well as it was made. And cheap: you almost forget how much value and mileage you could get from a Liz Claiborne outfit.
 So reviving Liz is a tempting idea, maybe the most tempting since Tom Ford took on Gucci in the mid-'90s. Because, although the economy is ailing and retail spending is down, there is an appetite for well-designed clothes with value. Liz Claiborne, who died last summer at the age of 78, answered the demands of women entering the professional work force for the first time in great numbers. Today the goal for many is to be smart -- smart with your money, smart with your time, smart about how you look.
 The task of reviving Claiborne belongs to Isaac Mizrahi and to the company's new chief executive, William McComb. Most people know Mizrahi for the clothes he designs for Target, one of the most successful high-low collaborations between a top designer and a mass merchant. Mizrahi wasn't exactly out of a job when he got involved with Target in 2002. He had a cable show on Oxygen, he did a star turn now and then on a sitcom, and he designed costumes for the ballet and theater. Later he began a line of couture clothes for stores like Bergdorf Goodman. But in the late '90s, Mizrahi made front-page news when he closed his ready-to-wear business after a decade. It occurred at a time when American talent was in demand in Europe -- Marc Jacobs at Louis Vuitton, Michael Kors at Celine, Narciso Rodriguez at Loewe. Those designers were not more qualified than Mizrahi, nor were their clothes more modern and exciting. Anyone who witnessed Mizrahi's shows in the late '80s and early '90s felt exhilarated by his humor and his notion of American style: the black dance dress, the parka and toggle coat, the gingham shirt always seemed to be on his mind. But his unabashed affection for a sporty glamour had begun to seem out of sync with postmodern tastes. He certainly wasn't the dream of the downtown hipster. No matter. He thrived at Target, and today he runs a large design studio in a building on 10th Avenue that would be the envy of many of his peers.
 Hired in October 2006, McComb, a former group chairman at Johnson & Johnson, wasn't in his new job at Claiborne very long before he made a cold call to Tory Burch. Burch and her husband, Christopher (from whom she is now separated), had quickly built a business based on casual separates that clicked with a lot of young women, just as the very social Tory herself did. She was attractive and friendly; she projected a lifestyle that was youthful as well as accessible to people, not the entrenched wealth and social climbing of the old fashion guard in New York. She would have been an obvious person for someone like McComb to consider as a possible choice for Liz. In a way, the call to Burch said a lot about McComb. That he acted at times on impulse. That his passions could get the better of him. That his fashion playbook wasn't long. Burch told McComb she had enough to do with her own company, he said, and the discussion never went further.
 A man who had sold pain relievers and facial scrubs, McComb was an unconventional choice to succeed Paul Charron, the former chief of Claiborne. Charron had created a diverse portfolio of brands at Claiborne, acquiring Ellen Tracy, Lucky Brand Jeans, Kate Spade and Juicy Couture, the California company started by Pamela Skaist-Levy and Gela Nash-Taylor on the almost idiotic notion that women might like to wear pink velour sweats to have lunch with their girlfriends. Charron created a management team that many considered among the best in the industry. But while Juicy Couture and Lucky prospered from Claiborne's investment -- sales of Lucky have risen to $422 million from $60 million in the nine years since it was purchased -- the company's core department store brands, like Dana Buchman and the Liz namesake label, seemed increasingly out of touch with women's lives.
 So McComb started dismantling things. The changes were swift and dramatic, and not surprisingly, morale at Claiborne's headquarters on Broadway plunged (and has not fully recovered, according to a number of people in the company). McComb laid off 1,300 people. And he targeted 16 Claiborne brands to be sold or licensed. His plan was to focus on the winners, like Juicy -- and on the Claiborne label, which in McComb's view was under the thumb of the sales department and not under the authority of a designer. ''I asked a lot of questions,'' McComb said in his modern, yellow-accented office. ''I was fascinated with the sense of the missing legacy -- the strong emotion that she still evokes today. It was superclear that something very big was missing.''
 Tall and trim, with boyish good looks, McComb, 45, rarely sits still even when he is seated. He is all limbs and gestures. At one point during an interview, to express a point he wanted to make about the difficulty of finding a manager for one of his divisions, he got down on one knee and remained there for a few uncomfortable seconds as he spoke rapidly, his voice rising sharply as his irritation about the episode grew. Asked about another matter, he leapt out of his chair beside a marble table and bounded over to his desk to consult his diary. He is extremely personable and enthusiastic, though at times it seems to boil over and he reminds you of a lean, thigh-slapping Midwesterner in a Rodgers and Hammerstein musical ready to burst into ''Oh, What a Beautiful Mornin'.'' 
 McComb is a natty dresser, and when he crossed his leg during a recent interview, it was plain that he was not wearing socks. ''I never wear socks in the summer,'' he said quickly. ''And I never did. People think that I don't wear socks because I read GQ since I came here. Ask anyone at J & J -- I never did. For 15 years.'' He went on to say he had been on the phone that morning with one of Claiborne's top investors. Like nearly every apparel company, Claiborne has seen its stock battered by the bear market, though McComb readily acknowledged that some of the broad changes he's made at Claiborne may be cause for concern on Wall Street. As of mid-July, the stock price had fallen to around $13 from about $40, when he joined the company. That morning he had spoken for nearly two hours to a portfolio manager and had scheduled a follow-up call. He said, ''She's in love and made me feel really good. She teaches me a lot about what's happening in Europe.''
 McComb, who has also been courting some of the magazine chiefs, including Anna Wintour of Vogue and Glenda Bailey of Harper's Bazaar, is definitely something of a pilgrim in fashion. The question is whether he can be a pioneer. He has a vision for Claiborne, but is it the right vision? And is he risking too much in order to prove that it can work?
 One thing that is impressive is the amount of trust he has put in Mizrahi, who apparently was in the midst of new contract talks with Target when Claiborne came calling late last year. McComb is a corporate chief who wants to behave, in a sense, like an anti-corporate chief. ''My whole model is brand independence and entrepreneurship,'' he said. Mizrahi has complete creative control of the label. And he will design everything, as well as accessories and concepts for advertising and logos, in his own studio. ''It's his business,'' McComb said broadly. ''We gave it to him. That's why I call it an artiste-led business. There's magic in his shop. Part of what I felt we were buying into was a culture -- a designer-led, irresistible culture.''
 Consumers will have their first look at Mizrahi's designs for Claiborne next February, when clothes start arriving in stores. He's been working on the new line, which buyers will see this fall, but won't be talking about it to the media until January.
 Mizrahi would certainly say he's learned a lot about working for a large corporation -- and how not to lose your ideals. If anything, since he closed his own business, Mizrahi has not really done what the more elitist elements of the fashion world expected of him. It's doubtful that he pays much attention to insiders' opinions. In this respect, he is very similar to Claiborne herself. She loved making clothes; she didn't have much taste for corporate life, though she was the first woman to found a Fortune 500 company. Mizrahi's designs, then, are not likely to follow a predictable pattern. They are going to be surprising and varied and possibly innovative. And having worked for Perry Ellis, whose elegant Seventh Avenue showroom Mizrahi will take over for Claiborne, he probably welcomed the chance to sink his teeth into another great American label. 
 ''Target taught him a lot,'' McComb said. ''He's gone up that very hard learning curve of a huge business. Isaac after Target is a win for us.''
 It's obviously too soon to say if McComb's notion of an unstructured corporate entity can work, but he has fans at Lucky Brand Jeans and Juicy Couture. Liz Munoz, the president of Lucky, recently recalled something that Charron told her about integrating Lucky into the corporate parent and its resources: ''He said, 'All you have to do is plug in.' '' Munoz laughed and added, ''I've been looking for that proverbial plug for the last nine years.'' Although she says Claiborne's former management helped Lucky learn how to produce clothing globally -- rather than within a two-mile radius of its offices in Vernon, Calif. -- Munoz believes that McComb has forced some long-overdue changes. ''He has a brilliant marketing mind,'' she said. ''His observations in our reviews have been really spot on.''
 Gela Nash-Taylor says she and her partner had a great working relationship with Charron. ''Love him, love him,'' she declared. ''He taught us a lot. We call him our sugar daddy.'' She says McComb has demonstrated that he understands their brand and their need for autonomy. ''You either love that or it scares you,'' Nash-Taylor said. ''But for Juicy, we are extremely opinionated about what we need, and we get what we need because we deliver the results.''
 Although McComb prides himself on being a good communicator, he has clearly been much less successful with Narciso Rodriguez. At McComb's initiative, Claiborne acquired a stake in Rodriguez's business in May 2007, but there have been problems in getting traction. Shortly after the purchase, Claiborne sent an executive from its DKNY Jeans unit to 
 help manage the brand, but she was rejected by Rodriguez as inappropriate for his type of designer business. It may be that Rodriguez, who declined comment for this article, has not discovered where to plug in, either.
 McComb said, ''They have not been happy with the management approaches we have brought to the table, and no, we have not found a candidate for president for their couture business.'' Rodriguez's business is small to begin with, and it wouldn't have an impact on Claiborne's share price. But asked if the business was stuck, McComb replied somewhat reluctantly, ''Yes, it is stuck.'' He added, now sounding upbeat, ''And yet I will tell you that 
 I believe he can be an American Armani. His talent is unrivaled. I love his work.''
 In an interview in 1986 with George J. W. Goodman -- the columnist known as Adam Smith -- Liz Claiborne hinted at her own frustration with fashion's seismic speed. She was talking about hemlines when she said, ''All 
 I can tell you about the trend is that things are moving faster and faster and faster.'' This is the problem McComb will have with shareholders if the economy totally tanks: can they wait for him to see his plan through? This is also Mizrahi's problem. Yesterday's secretaries and telephone operators are today's downtown girls. They want to buy something on Friday and wear it on Saturday and, hopefully, forget it by Monday. You can't make a moral judgment about that kind of thinking -- well, you can, but what difference would it make? Mizrahi just has to believe that design, honest design, can still turn heads on a crowded street. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 1976 LIZ CLAIBORNE INC. IS FOUNDED BY CLAIBORNE AND HER HUSBAND, ARTHUR ORTENBERG.
1981 THE COMPANY GOES PUBLIC.
1986 LIZ CLAIBORNE INC. BECOMES A FORTUNE 500 COMPANY.
1989 CLAIBORNE AND ORTENBERG RETIRE.
1994 PAUL CHARRON ARRIVES AS VICE CHAIRMAN AND C.E.O. AND BEGINS FATTENING CLAIBORNE'S PORTFOLIO.
1999 CLAIBORNE BUYS LUCKY BRAND JEANS.
2003 JUICY COUTURE IS ACQUIRED
ITS OWNERS, PAMELA SKAIST-LEVY AND GELA NASH-TAYLOR,ARE RETAINED.
2006 KATE SPADE JOINS THE COMPANY.
2006 WILLIAM MCCOMB, FORMERLY OF JOHNSON & JOHNSON, REPLACES CHARRON, WHO RETIRED, AND BEGINS ADDING AND SUBTRACTING BRANDS.
2007 CLAIBORNE BUYS A 50 PERCENT STAKE IN NARCISO RODRIGUEZ.
2008 ELLEN TRACY IS SOLD.
2008 ISAAC MIZRAHI, KNOWN FOR HIS SNAPPY AMERICAN SPORTSWEAR, IS HIRED AS CREATIVE DIRECTOR TO REVITALIZE THE LIZ CLAIBORNE BRAND. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, CLAIBORNE SITTING: E. J. CAMP/CORBIS
ALL OTHER IMAGES FROM LIZ CLAIBORNE INC.
RODRIGUEZ AND MIZRAHI : GETTY IMAGES
MIZRAHI RUNWAY: FIRSTVIEW (2)
ALL OTHER IMAGES FROM LIZ CLAIBORNE INC.) (PG.ST252 AND 253)
Drawing: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATS GUSTAFSON) (pg.ST251) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); WOMEN (89%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); WOMEN WORKERS (75%); TELECOMMUTING (67%); EMPLOYMENT (60%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (50%)

COMPANY: FIFTH & PACIFIC COS INC (86%)

TICKER: FNP (NYSE) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (86%); NAICS424320 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & FURNISHINGS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (86%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (86%)

PERSON: WILLIAM L MCCOMB (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008

 
