

1 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2865 words

HEADLINE: Identity Crises

BYLINE: By TOM ZELLER Jr.; David Bernstein contributed reporting from Chicago for this article.

 BODY:
Paul Fairchild, a 34-year-old Web developer in Edmond, Okla., has never spent $500 on fine tobacco. He has never slaked a shoe fetish with $1,500 charges at Manolo Blahnik and Neiman Marcus, nor has he ever bought diamonds online, furs in SoHo, or anything at e-Luxury.com. He has never owned an apartment building in Brooklyn, and he has never peddled flesh.
 Over the last two years, however, his credit report has suggested otherwise.
In retelling his ordeal with identity theft, Mr. Fairchild has developed the acid sarcasm and droll nonchalance of a standup comic -- a defense mechanism, his wife, Rachel, says, that belies two years of hell. 
 ''Once this happens, you can't believe how deep the rabbit hole goes,'' Mr. Fairchild said. 
 Indeed, in a year of prominent cases of stolen or lost consumer information -- from the hacking of university computers and the disappearance of backup tapes at Citigroup, to fraudulent downloads from the databases of companies like ChoicePoint and LexisNexis -- the rabbit hole seems to be getting deeper. 
 About 10 million Americans fall victim each year to identity theft, according to the Federal Trade Commission. And in about a third of those cases, victims see far more than their existing credit card accounts tapped. Their private information is used by thieves to open new accounts, secure loans and otherwise lead parallel and often luxurious lives.
 For victims like Mr. Fairchild -- and two others who recounted their troubles and shared their sometimes vast paper trails -- it can be an unnerving, protracted whodunit, with collection agents demanding payment for cars they have never driven, credit card accounts they never opened, loans they never obtained, and myriad other debts accrued by shadowy versions of themselves. 
 Prosecutions are rare, and police investigations -- when they do happen -- are time-consuming, costly and easily stymied. A 2003 study by the Gartner Inc. consulting firm suggested that an identity thief had about a 1 in 700 chance of getting caught. 
 ''It's a crime in which you can get a lot of money, and have a very low probability of ever getting caught,'' Mari J. Frank, a lawyer and author of several books on identity theft, said in an interview. ''Criminals are now saying, Why am I using a gun?'' 
 Just how many of the millions of new cases each year stem from the widely reported cracks in the nation's electronic data troves is impossible to know. A study by Javelin Strategy and Research indicated that the most frequently reported source of stolen information, at least among those who knew how it happened, was decidedly low-tech: a lost or stolen wallet or checkbook. And some experts have suggested that consumers are much more likely to fall victim to a rogue employee -- at a doctor's office, say, or a collection agency -- than to a gang of hackers infiltrating a database.
 But however their information is obtained, victims are still left with the unsettling realization that the keys to their inner lives as consumers, as taxpayers, as patients, as drivers and as homeowners have been picked from their pockets and distributed among thieves.
 ''Once it happens, you can never be certain that it won't happen again,'' said Beth Givens, the director of the Privacy Rights Clearinghouse, a consumer advocacy group. ''You can never let your guard down.''
 Mr. Fairchild, Kenneth Wasserman and Toshka Cargill -- each from different parts of the country and from varying economic backgrounds -- know precisely what Ms. Givens means. Their experiences with identity theft follow. 

Grand Theft Identity
 It was at his sister's wedding in Portland, Ore., in the summer of 2003 that Mr. Fairchild first received a hint that something was wrong. His American Express card was declined at a tuxedo rental shop, and when he called the card company, a customer service agent told him why: he was delinquent, she said, on the corporate cards issued to his business, Ebony Passion Escort Service, in Brooklyn.
 ''I remember her telling me I was the 'sole proprietor,''' Mr. Fairchild recalled in an interview at the rented ranch-style house outside Oklahoma City where he and his wife now live with their two children, Cole, 4, and 9-month-old Mikayla. ''I had this woman on the phone telling me that I was not only a deadbeat, but a pimp, too.'' 
 The Fairchilds had lived in Brooklyn in the early 1990's, but at the time of the Amex incident, they had been living in Santa Monica, Calif., for nearly eight years. 
 After returning from the wedding, Mr. Fairchild called the major consumer reporting agencies -- Experian, Equifax and TransUnion -- requesting that they send him copies of his credit report and place fraud alerts on his account. When the report from Experian came a few days later, the couple were stunned.
 In all, they estimate there were about $500,000 in bogus debts attached to Mr. Fairchild's name -- including several thousand dollars in unpaid or partly paid cellphone and credit card accounts, rental cars that were never returned, store accounts with jewelry wholesalers, and a delinquent $315,000 mortgage for a small apartment building at 8 Stuyvesant Avenue in downtown Brooklyn. 
 ''It's the same way you feel after you come home from vacation and find your house has been burglarized,'' Mr. Fairchild said. 
 He filed a report with the Santa Monica police, began calling the companies listing debts he did not recognize -- American Express, Citibank, Jewelry Express -- and prepared notarized affidavits for each company, attesting that he had not opened these accounts. He sent them copies of the police report.
 ''For the first four months, there's no doubt in my mind that I dedicated 40 hours a week to this,'' Mr. Fairchild said, reflecting the blunt reality that victims must painstakingly prove -- often to disbelieving creditors -- that debts are not their own. 
 Meanwhile, because his credit rating had been severely damaged, the interest rates on some of Mr. Fairchild's legitimate cards began climbing, while the credit limits he had been extended on his cards suddenly began to drop -- even though his payments were on time.
 ''It seemed so unbelievably unfair,'' Mrs. Fairchild said, recalling one charge on the Amex account belonging to Ebony Passion Escort Service -- $750 at Manolo Blahnik shoes. A pair of dress shoes she had bought for her son at about the same time, for the wedding in Portland, had cost $12 at Payless, and given the family's budget at the time, she had considered returning them. 
 ''I think it just infuriated me that someone else was living this life, under this name, and having those kinds of insane luxury items, while we could barely afford shoes for our kid,'' she said.
 After two years, hundreds of phone calls and reams of paperwork, the couple have managed to clear most of the debts from Mr. Fairchild's name -- although new ones still crop up. Two weeks ago, SBC Communications called, asking Mr. Fairchild why he had not paid his bill for two phone numbers in Wisconsin. 
 Untangling themselves from the building mortgage -- for which Mr. Fairchild was at one point sued by Wells Fargo Bank, one of many institutions that had bought and sold the debt -- required the help of a lawyer. And Mr. Fairchild said that repeated attempts to follow up on his case with the Santa Monica police have been unsuccessful. 
 A Santa Monica police spokesman said in an e-mail message that the department would not discuss the matter publicly. 
 After inquiries from The New York Times in August, the New York State Banking Department requested copies of the original mortgage application from U.S.A. Mortgage Bankers of America of Long Island, which issued the loan in 2002. Those documents revealed that the applicant had provided a Social Security number and a New York State driver's license in securing the loan. 
 The Social Security number was Mr. Fairchild's. So, too, were the birth date and the physical description on the phony ID. The photograph, however, was not. 
 To date, the real proprietor of Ebony Passion Escort Service remains a mystery, but a former employee, Kymberlea Durant, who said she worked there as a dispatcher, was found in Brooklyn. She said that at some point in mid-2003, the man who ran Ebony Passion -- who bragged of owning buildings, and who gave her a credit card so she could buy, among other things, Manolo Blahnik shoes for the escorts -- simply disappeared. 
 ''He owes me two weeks' pay,'' Ms. Durant said. 

Schemes Old and New
 Dr. Kenneth Wasserman, a clinical assistant professor of dermatology at Drexel University and the chairman of the skin-cancer screening program for Major League Baseball, considers himself a conscientious consumer. He never shops on the Web, keeps his Social Security card at home, and refuses to use online banking. 
 ''It's my belief that for every system set up to prevent fraud, there's going to be a system created by some smart person to bring it down,'' he said during an interview in his South Philadelphia office, where he recalled the afternoon of Thursday, April 21. 
 He was driving to meet a friend for a Phillies game that day when his accountant called his cellphone with some curious news. The electronic tax return they had filed -- the first time they had used electronic filing -- had bounced back from the Internal Revenue Service. The message was: already filed. 
 ''I was thinking identity theft,'' Dr. Wasserman said. ''I did also think back to my wallet.'' 
 Dr. Wasserman said he had lost his wallet about a year and a half ago. He got it back the next day, and everything was still there, but he said it had been rifled through. 
 Calls to the I.R.S. quickly revealed that someone had used Dr. Wasserman's name and Social Security number -- and an address in Atlanta -- to prepare a phony electronic tax claim, seeking a refund of nearly $7,000. The I.R.S., however, had flagged the bogus claim immediately, noting, among other anomalies, that it had been filed for ''Kenneth Wasserman'' as an individual, even though Dr. Wasserman has filed jointly with his wife, Anais, for over 15 years. 
 The agency did not issue a refund to the impostor, and advised Dr. Wasserman to refile a paper claim and send it by registered mail. 
 ''So we were like 'Wow, the I.R.S. caught it, they didn't give a refund. We're O.K.,''' Dr. Wasserman said. ''In my mind, I thought, 'I hope it's fine, but I'm not sure.''' 
 On a Saturday in early June, Dr. Wasserman's lingering worries were validated when he received a bill from HSBC Taxpayer Financial Services. He owed $6,407.98 for a ''refund anticipation loan'' -- a short-term, high-interest loan issued to a taxpayer against an expected tax refund. The bill included a $95 late charge. 
 Neither HSBC, which immediately ceased attempts to collect the debt after Dr. Wasserman called, nor the I.R.S. were willing to discuss the particulars of Dr. Wasserman's case, citing privacy restrictions. 
 But it is clear, based on general conversations with the bank and the tax agency, as well as on documentation Dr. Wasserman received from HSBC, that his name and Social Security number were among many used in an increasingly common scheme that takes advantage of the refund anticipation loans that many tax preparers now offer. 
 An independent tax preparer in Atlanta, operating under the name H&L Tax Service, had registered with HSBC's Taxpayer Financial Services division as a loan facilitator -- a designation that an HSBC spokesman, James E. Pieper, said required background checks and other safeguards. 
 ''It is rare that anything like this would happen,'' Mr. Pieper said. 
 Using stolen names and Social Security numbers, including Dr. Wasserman's, the thief created phony tax returns and sent them through the I.R.S. electronic filing system. To do that, the fraud artist would have also had to gain status as an Electronic Return Originator, for which the I.R.S. requires its own set of background checks. 
 With the electronic returns filed -- ostensibly in the names of real taxpayers -- the tax preparer was able to generate loans through HSBC, with funds placed on a sort of debit card. In repeated withdrawals of $402 each on March 20 and 21, the loan associated with Dr. Wasserman's name was drained from two automated teller machines in the Philadelphia area. 
 It was by no means an original scheme. 
 In April, the Justice Department announced the arrest of two people-- Rae Beavers of St. Louis and Joseph Milligan of New York -- who are charged with numerous fraud counts, including 13 counts each of filing fraudulent tax claims and 13 counts of identity theft. The scheme, according to the indictment, involved stealing the names and Social Security numbers of elderly patients at an eye-care center where they both worked. According to the indictment, the information was then sent to a third conspirator, Terrence Edwards of Brooklyn, who filed the fraudulent claims and generated refund anticipation loans. 
 Mr. Edwards was sentenced in August 2004 to 30 months in federal prison. 
 Mark E. Matthews, the deputy commissioner for services and enforcement at the I.R.S. and the former head of the agency's Criminal Investigative Division, said the I.R.S. had counted about 8,000 instances this year of the information of legitimate taxpayers being used by impostors trying to defraud the tax system. He also said the agency was beefing up its oversight of professional tax preparers. 

The Last Word
 When she's not working long hours at a local bank branch, Toshka Cargill, 47, is the sole person providing care to her 86-year-old mother, who suffered a stroke last year. They live together on the South Side of Chicago, in a modest, tidy home where the mantle is lined with family photographs and angel statuettes keep vigil. 
 Ms. Cargill does not own a computer. She does not have a cellphone. 
 But by the end of January, she found herself deeply in debt to Sprint PCS and delinquent on car payments for a $23,000 Pontiac Grand Am that the bank said she purchased in August of last year. 
 ''I felt like I was going to cry,'' said Ms. Cargill -- not least because she had spent years taking the bus to work, paying her bills on time and trying to build up her credit, so that she could buy the car that she does own. ''I couldn't believe it.'' 
 A bulging file of paperwork and correspondence -- most of it handwritten -- now bears testament to her determined effort to set things right. 
 She called the Federal Trade Commission for advice. 
 She also filed a police report, which landed, in early March, on the desk of Cindy Serafini, a nearly 20-year veteran of the force and one of about 20 detectives assigned to cases of identity theft in Chicago. 
 Ms. Cargill herself demanded title documents from New Rogers Pontiac on South Michigan Avenue, which sold the car to the fraudster. Those revealed photocopies of a driver's license with Ms. Cargill's name, but a different picture. 
 Detective Serafini, meanwhile, used a reverse directory to get names associated with the phone numbers listed on the bills Ms. Cargill had received from Sprint. She then crossed those names with a database of arrests. One name, with at least three previous arrests for identity theft, jumped out -- and the mug shot matched the picture on the fake driver's license. 
 On Aug. 10, Tabitha Nash, 39, pleaded guilty to two charges: possession of a stolen vehicle and financial identity theft. She was sentenced to four years for each, to be served concurrently. 
 The judge asked Ms. Nash if she had anything to say. 
 ''I'm sorry,'' she replied. 
 When the judge said she should tell that to the victims, Ms. Nash replied that she was sorry she had hurt them and sorry, too, that she would be leaving her children behind as she went to prison. 
 ''This is stupid,'' she said. 
 According to Detective Serafini, Ms. Nash had said that she got Ms. Cargill's personal information from a rogue salesman at Rogers Pontiac. When the police inquired with the owners, the detective said, they were told that the salesman had been fired for ''questionable sales practices.'' 
 With Ms. Nash behind bars -- and with roughly 800 identity-theft cases expected to cross her desk in the next year -- Detective Serafini said she considered the case closed. 
 And yet in August, as Ms. Nash was being processed at the Dwight Correctional Center in central Illinois, a man with a tow truck arrived at Ms. Cargill's home seeking to repossess the Pontiac. Ms. Cargill pressed her handwritten affidavit, stating that she had never had the car in the first place, against the glass until he went away. 
 Ms. Cargill did not get a chance to face Ms. Nash in the courtroom, but she read her victim's impact statement to a reporter from her living room sofa, her voice rising with indignation.
 ''For years, I had to walk and catch the bus before I was able -- O.K.? -- able, to buy a car,'' she said. ''Not before then.''
 ''If you can't afford something, then you don't get it,'' she continued. ''You don't buy it and you don't steal it. And you damn sure don't steal someone's identity to get it either.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 7, 2005

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day on Saturday about victims of identity theft misidentified the Brooklyn neighborhood in which an apartment building was financed with a mortgage taken in a victim's name. The building, at 8 Stuyvesant Avenue, is in Bedford-Stuyvesant, not downtown Brooklyn.

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Photo by Nick Bilton/The New York Times)(pg. C1)
TOSHKA CARGILL -- A collection agency demanded that Ms. Cargill pay for a cellphone account she never opened. She later learned a $23,000 car had been purchased in her name as well. (Photo by Peter Thompson for The New York Times)
KENNETH WASSERMAN -- After Dr. Wasserman filed his taxes, the I.R.S. told him they had already been filed. His name and Social Security number were used by thieves in an elaborate tax refund scheme. (Photo by Mike Mergen for The New York Times)
PAUL FAIRCHILD -- Mr. Fairchild's identity was used to run up over $500,000 in debts, much of it accumulated by Ebony Passion Escort Service, a business opened in his name. (Photo by Paul Hellstern for The New York Times)(pg. C3)Chart: ''Stolen Identities''About 1 percent of Americans experienced the worst kind of identity theft last year, in which a criminal used private information to open new accounts.What happened:TYPE OF NEW ACCOUNT OPENEDCredit card: 24%Telephone: 17Checking or savings: 16E-mail payment (like PayPal): 14Loan: 13OTHER PROBLEMS VICTIMS FACEDHarassed by collector: 35%Loan rejected: 35Insurance rejected: 16Utilities cut off: 15Criminal investigation: 14HOURS SPENT RESOLVING PROBLEMS1: 15%2 TO 9: 2910 TO 39: 2040 OR MORE: 29N.A.: 7MONEY SPENT RESOLVING PROBLEMSNONE: 50%$0: 12100: 151,000: 16N.A.: 7(Sources by Federal Trade Commission
 Javelin Strategy and Research)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IDENTITY THEFT (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CREDIT CARDS (76%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (76%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); INTERVIEWS (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (53%); LEXISNEXIS GROUP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (80%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); OKLAHOMA, USA (90%) NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2005



2 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: FEDERAL MONEY; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1423 words

HEADLINE: History of Corruption In Louisiana Stirs Fears That Aid Will Go Astray

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME and JEREMY ALFORD

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Sept. 27 

 BODY:
There are plenty of reasons that, after two hurricanes, Louisiana is viewing the coming intersection of the state's politicians and billions of dollars in federal relief aid with almost as much fear as hope. For starters, there is this:
 Nine months before Hurricane Katrina made landfall, three emergency preparedness officials from Louisiana were indicted, accused of obstruction and lying in connection with the mishandling of $30.4 million in disaster relief money. The Federal Emergency Management Agency has tried unsuccessfully to recover the money after an investigation of a program to buy out homeowners in flood-prone areas.
 Among other problems, federal inspectors said, nearly half a million dollars had been inappropriately spent on items like a trip to Germany, professional dues, computer equipment and a Ford Crown Victoria. 
 That $30 million is pocket change compared with perhaps $200 billion in federal money anticipated for rebuilding the Gulf Coast. But as New Orleans gets back to the gargantuan task of trying to become a functioning city again, Louisiana residents -- tired, angry and scared after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita -- seem every bit as aware of the state's history of corruption and incompetence as of its catastrophic meteorology.
 Griping about government is the national pastime, and nature, not man, caused the storms. But the essential thing to remember as rebuilding New Orleans proceeds is that perhaps no other state has as eccentric and problematic a political culture as Louisiana.
 This, after all, is the state where supporters produced bumper stickers reading ''Vote for the Crook. It's Important'' to urge a hold-your-nose vote for Edwin W. Edwards for governor in 1991 against the former Klansman David Duke. (Both eventually ended up in prison). It is a place that the author A.J. Liebling described as America's answer to Lebanon, where the chapter on Louisiana in V.O. Key Jr.'s classic book, ''Southern Politics in State and Nation,'' was entitled simply ''The Seamy Side of Democracy.'' 
 Unlike, for example, the serial hurricanes that hit Florida last year, Hurricane Katrina and the rebuilding process that will follow are being viewed as being about politics and governing almost as much as about wind and rain. 
 People are skeptical enough that when Juan Parke, a computer consultant awaiting Hurricane Rita last week at a bar on Bourbon Street in New Orleans, was asked about how the state would make use of anticipated federal aid, he shrugged and said, ''I do believe there's going to be a certain amount of inefficiency and a certain amount of corruption, but even thieves can only use two hands at a time, so there's going to be enough money to make it through to do some good.''
 Much has changed since the days of Huey and Earl Long and the heyday of Louisiana as political burlesque, and the state's most prominent current officials have not been touched by scandal. But when the theme in Baton Rouge for the 2003 Spanish Town Mardi Gras, an annual blend of merriment and political satire, was ''Louisiana Purchase: Name Your Price,'' one did not need to be an expert on state politics to get the joke.
 Several recent state officials, in fact, have spent time behind bars. Mr. Edwards is serving a 10-year federal prison sentence for extorting money from applicants for riverboat casino licenses. Jerry Fowler, a former elections commissioner, recently served a four-year bribery sentence; and Jim Brown, a former insurance commissioner, was released from a federal prison in 2003 after becoming the third insurance commissioner in a row to go to prison.
 And the officials charged last fall, including two senior employees of the State Office of Homeland Security and Emergency Preparedness, had roles directly related to preventing floods. Michael L. Brown, charged with conspiracy to obstruct a federal audit, was in charge of the state's Hazardous Mitigation Grant Program, which conducts projects to prevent flood losses. Michael C. Appe, also charged with conspiracy, was responsible for the program's finances. Both men pleaded not guilty, and were placed on leave.
 A federal audit found that the program had improperly spent money and had not properly accounted for its federal grants. The audit quoted one unnamed state official as saying that the state did not know how to properly allocate federal dollars. ''We treat it all as one big general fund,'' the official told the auditors. ''If we don't spend it, they will take it back.''
 That kind of attitude toward federal procedures may not inspire confidence as billions of dollars head their way to Louisiana. As it is, the state's chronic underfinancing of services, its poor educational system and a low-wage job base have led to frequent complaints that Louisiana resembles a third world nation.
 Also unchanged is its eternal ethnic divide, roughly split among blacks, Protestant whites and Roman Catholic Cajuns -- and between New Orleans and everywhere else -- that has largely focused state politics on cobbling together alliances of self-interest rather than appealing to the greater good. All of those factors will complicate the rebuilding.
 State residents, for the most, have veered between seeing politics as entertainment and train wreck, but these days the humor value may be at low ebb. So when Matthew McCann offered his suggestions for rebuilding New Orleans recently in a letter to The Times-Picayune, he spoke for many others when he concluded: ''In my 20 years in New Orleans, all I have seen is chicanery, shenanigans, greed and graft. This has got to change.''
 Of course, many people do not want to see the federal government let off the hook either.
 Doug Barden, a bartender at Harrah's casino in New Orleans, said a lack of federal support over 30 years and funding cuts to pay for the Iraq war, not the decisions of local officials, had left city levees vulnerable.
 John Maginnis, a journalist, author and editor of a statewide political newsletter, said that Louisiana's reputation for bad behavior had outstripped its reality, and that whatever flaws one could see in its current leading players -- Gov. Kathleen Babineaux Blanco, Senators Mary L. Landrieu and David Vitter, and Mayor C. Ray Nagin of New Orleans -- none had been the subject of major ethical issues.
 Mr. Maginnis said state leaders were racing to propose ethical safeguards, like Mr. Vitter's call for President Bush to appoint an independent, nonpolitical commission to oversee the spending. If nothing else, such a commission would better position the state in what is already becoming a competition for federal money with Mississippi. (The fear of losing money to other states probably exceeds the fear of improperly spending it.)
 At the same time, other Louisiana politicians are fuming that aid to the state will be unnecessarily slowed. 
 ''That is not how we're going to get our economy and community back,'' said Representative Charlie Melancon, a Democrat who represents a large part of Louisiana's hardest-hit area. ''It just frustrates the living hell out of me that everybody thinks they know what's right. People in New York are telling us what to do. It's like we're some breed that's different from the rest of the country. I'm tired of it.''
 Still, however much the state may have progressed, even its own residents often do not see it. A study this year by the Public Policy Research Lab at Louisiana State University found that 66 percent of respondents said they believed Louisiana was just as corrupt as it ever was and might even be more corrupt today.
 And almost everyone agrees that this moment will test Louisiana's political resolve, not just in terms of integrity but also in areas of social equity and concern for the poor, as painful decisions are made about which areas will be rebuilt and which will not. Particularly problematic will be how and whether to rebuild the Lower Ninth Ward of New Orleans, poor, black, flooded and reflooded but home to 40,000 people, along with equally devastated portions of the largely white St. Bernard Parish just to the east.
 ''For Louisiana, this is the moment that will forever tell us who we are,'' Barry Erwin, president of the Council for a Better Louisiana, a nonpartisan nonprofit group that monitors state government. ''Are we at a point where we can rise to the occasion and rebuild our state? Or, will we squander this opportunity to make the most of a horrible situation? 
 ''We have no choice -- we have to get this right.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); WEATHER (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); LARCENY & THEFT (76%); METEOROLOGY (73%); FLOOD ZONES (73%); HISTORY (71%); INDICTMENTS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (69%); WRITERS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (97%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); LEBANON (79%); GERMANY (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2005



3 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: Dengue Virus Is Sweeping Asia, Killing Hundreds, Officials Say

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Sept. 30 

 BODY:
Even as Asia worries about a possible avian influenza pandemic, a much more common disease is sweeping the region, borne on the wings of mosquitoes and commercial aircraft: the dengue virus.
 At least 127,000 people have been infected by dengue so far this year along an arc that stretches from eastern India through the Indonesian archipelago, with at least 990 deaths, the health authorities say. Warning of a dengue epidemic, Malaysia recently joined Singapore in declaring emergency measures to combat a surge in cases that has killed at least 70 people. While those two countries are experiencing record infections, the worst-affected has been populous Indonesia, with more than 48,000 cases and more than 600 deaths. 
''Dengue is now one of the most important tropical diseases,'' said Duane Gubler, director of the Asia-Pacific Institute for Tropical Medicine and Infectious Diseases at the University of Hawaii John A. Burns School of Medicine. ''While it doesn't kill that many people, it has tremendous economic and social impact.''
 Dengue is from the same family of viruses that causes West Nile, Japanese encephalitis and yellow fever. There is no vaccine or treatment, and it is estimated to infect at least 50 million people a year. Those with acute cases suffer painful fever and debilitating lethargy, with about 1 percent developing hemorrhagic fever or shock, sometimes with gastrointestinal bleeding and, in rare cases, brain hemorrhages.
 Unlike other tropical diseases like malaria that are generally found in rural areas or in urban slums, dengue is carried by mosquitoes that thrive in modern cities in warm, humid climates like Singapore. 
 If a mosquito bites a person with dengue, the mosquito can pass the virus to the next person it bites. If that person flies to another country with mosquitoes, he or she can unknowingly spread the virus even further.
 Complicating prevention, 90 percent of those infected develop only mild symptoms or no symptoms, inadvertently serving as a reservoir for the virus. Even those who do fall ill become infectious days earlier, making any potential quarantine useless, experts say. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DENGUE FEVER (95%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (93%); TROPICAL DISEASES (92%); VIRUSES (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); MOSQUITO BORNE DISEASES (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); INFLUENZA (90%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (89%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (78%); MALARIA (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); TROPICAL MEDICINE (78%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); WEST NILE VIRUS (78%); BITES & STINGS (78%); VACCINES (73%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); SLUM DWELLINGS (50%) Dengue Fever

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII (56%); PACIFIC RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY (56%)

PERSON: Wayne Arnold

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%) SINGAPORE (94%); INDONESIA (94%); ASIA (94%); MALAYSIA (93%); INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Malaysia; Singapore; Indonesia

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2005



4 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: AID TO FAMILIES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: FEMA Discontinues $2,000-a-Household Benefit

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 30 

 BODY:
The Federal Emergency Management Agency has discontinued its $2,000-per-household emergency assistance program for victims of Hurricane Katrina, switching to a more regimented aid package intended to encourage families to leave shelters.
 In the aftermath of the storm, FEMA gave displaced families a payment of $2,000, saying they could use the money for clothing, food or rental housing. 
More than 752,000 households signed up, collecting just over $1.5 billion, officials said.
Since Monday, displaced families have been offered housing assistance from FEMA, a benefit of $786 a month that they can receive for up to 18 months if they provide documentation that the money is being spent on temporary housing. Separately, the agency is considering applications for aid to repair homes.
 Families with other needs are now expected to apply for food stamps or unemployment benefits or for assistance from private charitable groups.
 Several members of Congress from the states affected by Hurricane Katrina said in a statement on Friday that the agency should not have cut off the broad-based assistance so quickly.
 ''Cutting off emergency survival funds for those in need is a sign of the incompetent and bureaucratic Department of Homeland Security at work,'' said Representative Bennie Thompson, Democrat of Mississippi.
 Nicol Andrews, a spokeswoman for FEMA, said the agency waited until its housing program was in place before cutting emergency assistance. ''One was not turned off until the other was turned on,'' she said.
 As of Wednesday, 332,392 households had been deemed eligible for the housing assistance, resulting in the distribution of an additional $783 million in aid, Ms. Andrews said.
 Regardless of whether families have received FEMA grants through emergency assistance, temporary housing aid or money to repair a damaged home, there is a cap of $26,200 per household on direct FEMA aid.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); FAMILY (90%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); CHARITIES (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); FOOD STAMPS (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (95%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (55%)

PERSON: BENNIE THOMPSON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2005



5 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: F.A.A. Approves O'Hare Expansion, but U.S. Court Issues a Stay Halting It

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Sept. 30 

 BODY:
The federal aviation administrator announced on Friday that a $15billion expansion of O'Hare International Airport was ''now cleared for takeoff.'' But within hours of a ceremonial groundbreaking here, a federal court granted critics of the expansion a stay temporarily halting the federal approval.
 The Federal Aviation Administration estimates that the project, the most ambitious and expensive airport expansion in the United States would reduce delays at O'Hare to 6 minutes from 17 minutes in good weather by 2018, even as the total number of flights increases. Delays at O'Hare frequently spiral out to clog airports coast to coast. 
Adding two runways and reconfiguring the existing six, the agency projects, will reduce bad-weather delays, to 20 minutes, from 61.
 Two adjacent suburbs and a religious group that have long fought the expansion contend that it is illegal because the city has yet to secure financing and that the First Amendment prevents relocating a church cemetery in the paths of the proposed runways. 
 The Federal District Court in Washington accepted their request on Friday for a stay to block the agency pending a review, noting that the order ''should not be construed in any way as a ruling on the merits.''
 The court challenge did not stop Mayor Richard M. Daley from celebrating in front of bulldozers on the grassy site of a proposed runway, telling scores of elected officials and business boosters that the agency's approval kicked off ''the largest job-creating project'' in local history and would ''keep Chicago the transportation hub of the Northern Hemisphere for years to come.''
 ''Transportation has been the backbone of the Chicago economy ever since the city was founded,'' Mr. Daley said in remarks interrupted several times by jets overhead. ''First it was water, then railroads, then highways and then aviation.'' 
 ''Today,'' he said, ''we are securing our economic future for generations.''
 Mayor Craig B. Johnson of Elk Grove Village, a town of 35,000 just west of O'Hare, expressed confidence that the suit opposing the plan would eventually expose flaws in it, pointing to a report in July by the inspector general of the federal Transportation Department that questioned the projections on delays and the cost-benefit analysis. 
 ''It's like the Wizard of Oz,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''When you walk into the chamber with the wizard, he looks all mighty. But when you pull back the curtain, you find a feeble old man that has no power.
 ''Same thing with O'Hare. They've got all these fancy glossies. Today they're going to have big bulldozers and tents. But now with the courts, they're going to pull back that curtain. Behind it, they're going to find there's no plan that works.''
 The approval on Friday focused on the first two phases of the 20-year project, 59 percent of whose $7.5billion price tag would be covered by airport bonds; 32 percent by increased fees for passengers, airlines and concessions; and 9 percent by federal grants.
 The aviation agency has not yet approved the city's request for $300million from its discretionary fund over 10 years for the first phase, and Chicago will have to compete for that money with airport projects in Atlanta and Los Angeles as the overall F.A.A. budget shrinks. 
 ''We can give them part of that, we can give them none of that,'' said a spokesman for the regional office of the agency, Tony Molinaro. ''In Washington, they have to weigh the benefits and what would be the best way to dole it out.''
 In a conference call with reporters, the aviation administrator, Marion C. Blakey, said of the first two phases, ''We believe this is viable, we think it's practical, and we think the money will be there.'' 
 On the broader plan, including new terminals, Ms. Blakey said, ''At a certain point, you begin to say we'll cross that bridge.''
 Executives at United Airlines, whose hub is at O'Hare, and American Airlines praised the plan.
 The president of the local air traffic controllers' union criticized it as overly aggressive and unwisely dependent on full completion to yield significant benefits. 
 ''Instead of having a much cheaper and much quicker fix to the problem, they've made it into this huge long-term extremely expensive unfunded project,'' the union president, Craig Burzych, said. 
 Mr. Burzych said that O'Hare needed a third parallel runway for bad-weather landings, but that the plan would realign six runways in parallel. 
 ''They're going to regret it,'' he added.
 Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr., the Illinois Democrat who has emerged as a leading opponent of the O'Hare expansion and of Mayor Daley, said in a statement that the project would be akin to the Big Dig in Boston and ''saddle a generation of Chicago taxpayers and travelers with billions of dollars of debt and an airport that's as overcrowded and delay-prone as today's.'' 
 For Mr. Daley, who has been responding to a growing scandal over political influence in hiring at City Hall, approval of the O'Hare project was a welcome respite, embraced with a lavish antipasto spread under a clear blue sky that more than one speaker noted was ideal for flying. Mr. Daley, a Democrat, went out of his way to give significant credit to former Gov. George Ryan, a Republican, whose criminal trial on corruption charges began this week. 
 ''Without his leadership, we might not be here today,'' Mr. Daley said, amplifying his booming voice and bringing steady claps from the crowd.
 One happy traveler was Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, who said that the ''flight plan'' to O'Hare expansion had been long and unexpectedly turbulent, but that ''now we're buckled up for a smooth landing.''
 ''As a person who uses O'Hare at least twice a week, every week, every year,'' he said, ''I can't wait.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Richard M. Daley of Chicago at the ceremonial groundbreaking yesterday for the $15 billion O'Hare International Airport expansion. (Photo by Tim Boyle/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (94%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); CHURCH & STATE (73%); AIRPORT RUNWAY CONSTRUCTION (73%); RELIGION (68%); JOB CREATION (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2005



6 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: REBUILDING; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: New Orleans Forms a Panel on Renewal

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Sept. 30 

 BODY:
After weeks of sorrow, setbacks and recriminations, New Orleans took an important symbolic step forward Friday when Mayor C. Ray Nagin introduced a 17-member commission that will advise him as this stricken city begins the long slog of renewal and reconstruction.
 The commission is likely to play a central role as the city wrestles with a long list of towering questions like the best way to spend federal relief dollars, restart a crippled economy and rebuild sodden neighborhoods. As conceived, the commission, which is especially thick with chief executives and others from the business world, will act as a mediating body for conflicting visions of reconstruction, and also send a message to the federal government.
''I think the importance of this group is that it will give the federal government the confidence that the city is harnessing the private sector to do a lot of its work,'' said J. Stephen Perry, president of the New Orleans Convention and Visitors Bureau. 
 The commission's most immediate goal, the mayor said, is a working plan by year's end. 
 Mr. Nagin introduced the Bring New Orleans Back commission at a news conference held inside the heavily fortified Sheraton Hotel on Canal Street, a building surrounded almost constantly by cleanup crews as well as beefy private security guards armed with weapons.
 In the days leading up to Friday's announcement, there was intense jockeying over who would be among the lucky few to be granted a prime seat at the negotiating table. Mr. Perry was among those expressing disappointment that neither he nor any other representative of the tourism industry was being granted a place on the commission, though restaurants, hotels and the entertainment sector account for 81,000 jobs in a city of roughly 450,000, according to data provided by the visitors bureau.
 That was heartening news, however, for those locals who had feared that efforts to rebuild New Orleans would emphasize tourism at the expense of its other industries, including shipbuilding, oil and gas, and medical research. 
 The commission's roster includes a broad array of community representatives and business leaders, among them Scott Cowen, president of Tulane University, and Joseph C. Canizaro and Donald T. Bollinger Jr., multimillionaire businessmen with close ties to the White House. Also on the list is David White, a businessman often described as the mayor's closest confidant; Alfred C. Hughes, Roman Catholic archbishop of New Orleans; and the homegrown trumpet player Wynton Marsalis.
 The commission, with one Latino member, is otherwise half black and half white -- deliberately so, according to several people involved in the selection process. But like most every other facet of the Hurricane Katrina story in this predominantly black city, race persists as a nettlesome issue. 
 ''I think some people don't understand that an equal number of black and white isn't the same as equity,'' said Barbara Major, a black activist who will serve as co-chairwoman of the commission. ''But I tell you what, I give them credit, at least it's 50-50.''
 Ms. Major, one of two women on the commission, is the executive director of St. Thomas Health Services, a medical clinic in New Orleans that until the hurricane served city residents regardless of an ability to pay. Her goal, she said, is a city that is more equitable and offers greater opportunity than in the past.
 ''With what everyone's been through, I'm not going to be assuming anything about anyone until we start working together,'' she said. 
 The group's other co-chairman, Maurice L. Lagarde, a New Orleans native who runs the Mississippi Delta region for the hospital giant HCA, described their task as ''daunting.''
 Friday's announcement opens a new chapter in the city's odyssey, officially beginning the rebuilding process and providing the go-ahead for the city's elite to start the debate over its direction. 
 Speaking last week, Mr. Cowen, of Tulane, said he was ignoring the varied proposals being bandied about, in anticipation of a more formal forum like this commission, where various leaders could debate the big questions that will preoccupy New Orleans in the months to come.
 One issue certain to land in the commission's lap is the size of the new city. Some, including Pres Kabacoff, a prominent developer here known for using mixed-income housing to reclaim historic neighborhoods that have fallen on hard times, are convinced that New Orleans must be transformed into a smaller, more dense city thick with 10- and 15-story apartment buildings built around historic areas. 
 Other ideas certain to prompt debate are proposals to expand the presence of casinos in the city as a quick fix for the local economy, and another to allow some parts of the city that are below sea level to revert to swampland. Many of those low-lying neighborhoods were home to the city's poorest people, adding racial and economic complexity to an environmental issue.
 ''There'll be plenty of time for pushing and shoving as we debate all these issues over the coming months,'' said Lt. Gov. Mitchell J. Landrieu, a lifelong New Orleans resident who is the son of former Mayor Moon Landrieu and brother of Senator Mary L. Landrieu.
 The commission held an introductory four-hour meeting on Friday. 
 ''I really didn't know how the commission would react when they got a full briefing on everything we know,'' Mayor Nagin said. ''After their jaws picked up from dropping, and after they wiped their brow from sweating, they basically all collectively said, 'We can do this.'''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor C. Ray Nagin introducing the 17-member Bring New Orleans Back commission. (Photo by Robyn Beck/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (88%); LODGING (88%); TOURISM (88%); HOTELS & MOTELS (87%); RELIGION (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); HURRICANE KATRINA (73%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (72%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (70%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (68%); SHIPBUILDING (66%); RESTAURANTS (66%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (65%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2005



7 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 150 words

HEADLINE: Better Health Care For Africa's Women

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 ''Nightmare for African Women: Birthing Injury and Little Help'' (front page, Sept. 28) points to a larger problem in Africa and other developing countries.
In developed countries like ours, aging populations require increasing numbers of health personnel, particularly nurses. These countries recruit health personnel from developing countries, which cannot provide the salaries and work conditions that prevail in developed countries.
 One possible solution is increased financing from the World Bank and International Monetary Fund to provide assistance to developing countries to increase the number of schools for health professionals. Such assistance, combined with salary supplementation, could greatly increase the numbers of health personnel who choose to remain. 

Martin Gittelman
New York, Sept. 28, 2005

The writer is a clinical professor of psychiatry at N.Y.U. Medical School.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WOMEN (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (87%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (86%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (86%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); AGING TRENDS (71%); PSYCHIATRY (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); AGING (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (67%) AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2005



8 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 232 words

HEADLINE: Government in Action

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 John Tierney's recent columns (''Losing That New Deal Religion,'' Sept. 24, and ''From FEMA to WEMA,'' Sept. 20) argue that government is inherently incapable of efficient and effective action.
Nonsense. In my 30 years in government, I saw my share of boondoggles, but also many examples of effective action in crisis. One outstanding example was the United States government's response to disastrous floods in Bangladesh in 1991 (when I was deputy assistant secretary of state for South Asia), involving the United States Embassy, the United States Agency for International Development (particularly the Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance) and the military. 
 The government officials who are looked on as stars by their colleagues are those willing to bend or break rules during a crisis. Offices that regularly deal with emergencies, such as the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Office of United States Foreign Disaster Assistance, have the authority to bypass normal procedures in abnormal circumstances. Effective officials have good judgment about when to use these powers.
 Government can't do everything, but the right officials, with a halfway decent system, can do a lot.

Teresita C. Schaffer
Washington, Sept. 24, 2005

The writer, a former United States ambassador, is director of the South Asia program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); RELIGION (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (90%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (92%); BANGLADESH (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2005



9 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: A 'Shadow' Who Left Indelible Works

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:

Melville
His World and Work
By Andrew Delbanco
Illustrated. 415 pages. Alfred A. Knopf. $30.
 Hart Crane once called Herman Melville a ''fabulous shadow.'' The characterization is apt. As the author of ''Moby-Dick,'' quite possibly the greatest American novel, and slippery protomodern works like ''Bartleby the Scrivener,'' ''Benito Cereno'' and ''Billy Budd,'' Melville is a towering presence. His knots and perplexities and preoccupations remain shockingly contemporary.
The man himself, however, keeps disappearing just around the next corner. Andrew Delbanco rightly points out in his preface to ''Melville: His World and Work'' that ''any conventional biography of Melville is a business bound to fail'' for sheer lack of material. There are some surviving letters, most of them brief, and a few perfunctory journals. Long stretches of Melville's life are almost completely undocumented, including the early years at sea in the South Pacific. When he died in obscurity in 1891, at 72, the few Americans who noticed must have been surprised to find that the author of ''Moby-Dick'' had not died decades earlier. Despite the obstacles, Mr. Delbanco, a humanities professor at Columbia and the author of many books on American literature, has managed to deliver a first-rate biography, shrewd and engaging, that ingeniously tacks back and forth from fiction to fact. He adds nothing to the modest pile of biographical data about Melville. Instead, he concentrates on placing the fiction in historical and political context, and, through a series of imaginative leaps, on making connections between Melville's works and the circumstances surrounding their creation. 
 A striking example of this approach can be found in Mr. Delbanco's colorful evocation of New York in the 1840's, where Melville made the artistic transition from his semidocumentary tales of the South Seas to the grand, go-for-broke ''Moby-Dick.'' Swept up in the visual chaos, the assaultive odors, the sheer human crush of the city, Mr. Delbanco argues, Melville developed a voracious appetite for the democratic spectacle of American life. 
 His style changed. Abandoning convention, ''his books became eclectic miscellanies, with innumerable tangents spoking out from the spine of the story, each one reaching for some new analogy that diverts our attention to some novel sensation, or topic, or fact.'' Melville's fiction -- digressive, exclamatory and wide open to the play of free association -- suggested the influence of newspapers or advertisements as much as conventional novels. 
 Mr. Delbanco does not document this thesis in a conventional way. Rather he dramatizes and suggests, by evoking the rude, seething life of Broadway, and the city's crowded visual field of placards, tabloid newspapers, sandwich men and advertising signs attached to passing carriages. Melville may not be an urban writer in the ordinary sense; yet, Mr. Delbanco insists, there has never been anyone in American literature ''more deeply affected, indeed infected, by the tone and rhythm of the city.'' New York, by example, pushed Melville toward formal experiment with the possibilities of formlessness. It inspired him to take risks, to ''accede to his reckless moods,'' as Mr. Delbanco puts it. ''Better to sink in boundless deeps, than float on vulgar shoals; and give me, ye Gods, an utter wreck, if wreck I do,'' Melville wrote at the time. The high-stakes gamble of ''Moby-Dick'' paid off, in artistic terms, but thereafter Melville floundered. Mr. Delbanco ruefully follows the trail of financial desperation and repeated artistic failure, punctuated by unexpected comebacks, none of them remunerative. After the messy, incomprehensible ''Pierre'' (''Herman Melville Crazy,'' read the headline over one newspaper's review), Melville rebounded with the sublime ''Bartleby'' and ''Benito Cereno,'' but then subsided into pathetic hackwork and a long, sad career as deputy inspector No. 75 for the United States Custom Service.
 Mr. Delbanco makes this more than a Grubstreet tragedy. His concise, illuminating discussion of publishing economics in the United States underscores the heroism of Melville's struggles. The absence of international copyright law stacked the deck against American writers, who, in trying to establish both a native voice and a domestic audience, encountered the entrenched resistance of their publishers. Why risk money on new American writing when it cost a mere pittance to print the work of tried-and-true English authors?
 Melville found solace in his friendship with Nathaniel Hawthorne, a relationship whose ups and downs Mr. Delbanco traces with a sensitive hand. Melville, open and impulsive, poured his heart out to Hawthorne and, one suspects, tried his patience with high-flying philosophical orations that lasted late into the night. Hawthorne, cool and composed, took it all in but returned little of the heat. Melville was a ''blurter-outer,'' Mr. Delbanco puts it, and Hawthorne ''a man of circumspection.'' Mr. Delbanco, with a searching eye, finds Hawthorne's ''resistant presence in the many scenes of confrontation that recur in Melville's fiction between men of ardor and men of reserve,'' like Ahab and Starbuck. 
 The friendship fizzled, for reasons that Mr. Delbanco cannot resist speculating about. At some point between completing ''Moby-Dick'' and starting ''Pierre,'' he theorizes, ''Melville may have gotten close to some explosive secret in his friend's private life, and Hawthorne may have pushed him away.'' Here, as he does from time to time, Mr. Delbanco goes too far. What is the evidence? If there isn't any, this is a small step removed from gossip. 
 One is tempted to pose the same question when Mr. Delbanco zeroes in on Melville's penchant for obsessive characters like Ahab, or Mr. Claggart in ''Billy Budd,'' and proposes that ''one deep purpose of his writing was to save himself from becoming too much like them.'' This is an intriguing notion, but ultimately fruitless. Perhaps it was. And then again, perhaps it wasn't. 
 It's hard to blame Mr. Delbanco for taking a shot in the dark, when there is so much darkness to confront. In the end, Melville remains a man of shadows, but his character and achievement as a writer have never been clearer.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Andew Delbanco (Photo by Joyce Ravid)(pg. B18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); LITERATURE (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2005



10 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: Cracks on Throgs Neck Spur a Daytime Ban on Heavy Trucks

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
Alarmed by a proliferation of cracks on the roadway decks of the Throgs Neck Bridge, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority intends to ban tractor-trailers and other heavy trucks during the day.
 The bridge -- which stretches from the Bronx to Queens and is the major commercial artery linking Long Island to Westchester County and upstate New York -- is not believed to be in danger of collapsing.
But the cracks -- in the steel deck structures on either side of the span -- are ominous because they began appearing decades earlier than expected. One of the city's newest bridges, the Throgs Neck opened in 1961. Traffic has grown by 72 percent since then, to 39.7 million vehicles in 2004 from 23.1 million in 1962. 
 An 80,000-pound weight limit has been on the books for years, but it was largely ignored until engineers concluded in April that cracks were multiplying at an alarming rate. The cracks were attributed to a surge in the number of six-axle tractor-trailers, which can weigh as much as 120,000 pounds when full. In the last five years, there has been a 113 percent increase in tractor-trailer crossings on the bridge. 
 After months of discussions with the trucking industry, the authority announced last week that it would begin strictly enforcing the weight limit today. Several trucking companies quickly filed a lawsuit, which called the crackdown ''arbitrary and capricious'' and argued that the authority should first be required to complete an environmental review. 
 The businesses assert that to comply with the weight limit, they would have divide their loads among many smaller trucks, worsening air pollution and traffic congestion. The other, longer alternative for trucks to and from Long Island is the often-congested Van Wyck Expressway and the Bronx-Whitestone Bridge.
 On Thursday, in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, the authority agreed to temporarily refrain from issuing summonses or seizing heavy trucks, but officials said they would return to court to seek the right to do both immediately. Justice Paul G. Feinman has scheduled a hearing for Oct. 18.
 Both sides agree that the efficient movement of goods and the integrity of the Throgs Neck Bridge are both critical for the regional economy. But there is no consensus on how to balance the two.
 The Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority, a Metropolitan Transportation Authority subsidiary that manages nine bridges and tunnels, including the Throgs Neck, said that public safety demanded strict enforcement of the weight limit. 
 The decks, installed in the mid-1980's in place of the original concrete decks, should have ''a life expectancy in many decades,'' so the appearance of cracks after only 20 years is disturbing, said Michael C. Ascher, the president of the bridge agency, also known as M.T.A. Bridges and Tunnels. Ignoring the cracks, he said, could have catastrophic consequences. 
 ''While there may well be an economic impact by bringing the enforcement up to where it should be, the fact of the matter is a closure of a part or a whole of that crossing, the Throgs Neck Bridge, would have a devastating impact on the economy of Long Island and the region,'' Mr. Ascher said on Thursday at a board meeting of the transportation agency.
 The cracks were first identified in 1990 in the lightweight steel deck that supports the roadway on both approaches to the bridge. The 3,217-foot Queens viaduct and the 4,712-foot Bronx viaduct are each longer than the bridge itself, which is 2,910 feet from end to end. 
 Engineers tried to fix the cracks by drilling holes through the steel, distributing the stress that caused the crack around the hole. Even so, cracks continued to appear. 
 ''There is no imminent danger, and these cracks are being carefully monitored,'' said Thomas Bach, the chief engineer at the bridge agency. ''We are analyzing repair methods. The purpose of what we're doing here is to prevent the damage from continuing and getting worse.'' 
 The authority has agreed to allow trucks up to 89,000 pounds -- slightly higher than the weight limit -- on the bridge's two center lanes, the strongest of the six traffic lanes. Under the proposed crackdown, trucks heavier than that may cross the bridge only from 11 p.m. to 5 a.m., and with an escort who will ensure that they are driven slowly, to minimize stress on the bridge. Other traffic would be restricted during such crossings.
 Enforcement of the weight limits would be particularly devastating to companies that move aggregate, the crushed stone used to make asphalt and concrete, according to industry representatives. They said the higher costs of moving the materials would be passed on to contractors and consumers.
 ''You would have to double the number of trucks in the business if you had to operate at that 89,000-pound limit,'' said Francis X. McArdle, managing director of the General Contractors Association of New York. It would be more cost-effective to rebuild the deck ''so it can carry what needs to be carried, as quickly as possible,'' he said.
 Robert F. Carlino, executive director of the Long Island Contractors Association, said that building materials usually cannot be delivered at night because of noise and traffic restrictions.
 Opponents of the weight limit said that the authority had provided no evidence to support its analysis. ''There's no one looking over the engineers' shoulders,'' said John T. Cooney Jr., president of Tilcon New York, a unit of CRH, a big Irish building-materials company. ''They've made this decision in a windowless room.''
 The lawsuit contends that the authority has long accepted the state's so-called divisible-load permits, which allow maximum weights of 120,000 pounds. The authority notes that the permits are not valid in the city. 
 One of the plaintiffs in the suit, Emilio Lamanna, the president of Almar Supplies of Maspeth, Queens, said he was particularly upset by the sudden nature of the decision. ''We're willing to follow the rules,'' he said. ''Give us a time frame so that we can slowly adjust to this.''

 Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Throgs Neck Bridge will be closed to the heaviest trucks, except at night. (Photo by 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); TRUCKING (90%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); LITIGATION (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (62%); AIR POLLUTION (50%) Bridges and Tunnels; Trucks and Trucking; Throgs Neck Bridge (NYC); Weight; Suits and Litigation

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority

PERSON: Sewell Chan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2005



11 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; High and Dry on the Farm; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Lost Crops and Soaring Costs Mark Growing Season 

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

 BODY:
The 2005 growing season is leaving behind a patchwork of parched acres a few towns away from productive ones, with farmers who have access to irrigation systems suffering from increased fuel costs, farmers without water despairing about lost crops, and flighty rains soaking a field here and a field there but always leaving the land thirsty for more.
 The New Jersey Emergency Board of the federal Department of Agriculture voted unanimously yesterday to ask Acting Governor Richard J. Codey to seek a federal disaster declaration, which would allow for emergency loans and debt restructuring for qualifying farmers.
Dry conditions and other problems have also bedeviled farmers in New York and Connecticut.
 The month of August in New Jersey was the third driest August in more than a century, with last month expected to rank among the three hottest Septembers, according to the National Weather Service in Mount Holly. 
 Paul Hlubik, head of the emergency board, said farmers had reported crop losses ranging from 30 to 60 percent, depending on the crop and the area.
 ''They're suffering terribly from the dry weather now,'' he said. ''Somebody turned the heat on and turned the water off.''
 This is not the worst drought he has seen, but both meteorological and economic conditions have been bad, he said. ''It's a very tough year, compounded by low commodity prices, high fuel prices and now no yields because of the weather,'' he said. 
 The season started auspiciously, with decent rainfall in the spring, said Tom Brodhecker, 72, who farms 700 acres in Sussex County. But the summer rainstorms did not provide a uniform soaking, said Mr. Brodhecker, whose fields are far-flung. His second cutting of hay, a crop that he sells locally to others, also yielded less than average, because of hot, dry weather.
 He estimates his farm's fuel costs have risen 25 percent this year. The hay he has to buy from other farmers as part of his business now costs 25 to 30 percent more, he said.
 Mr. Brodhecker was harvesting knee-high corn yesterday. ''It was questionable whether it was even worth chopping for silage, due to the cost of just fuel and your machinery versus what you got out of it,'' he said. ''If we even break even. we'd be doing good.''
 Gary Mount, a 10th-generation farmer in central New Jersey who owns Terhune Orchards, has an irrigation system and estimated he used 50 percent more water than average this year, growing 35 crops on 200 acres in Princeton. His farm stand on Cold Soil Road features pick-your-own raspberries, apple cider slush, a separate section for children to ride toy tractors, and a staff wearing red T-shirts proclaiming ''Apple Corps.'' 
 He was glad to have an irrigation system powered by electricity instead of costly diesel. In 2002, the state's Department of Agriculture found that 2,124 farms out of 9,924 were irrigated. With irrigation, many New Jersey farmers are able to withstand droughts, if power and water remain affordable. ''Every single one of them would tell you they'd rather add water than subtract it,'' Mr. Mount said, noting that wet seasons brought pests and diseases.
 New Jersey farmers, especially those who sell their produce wholesale rather than at produce stands or farmers' markets, have a tough time, Mr. Mount said. ''Everything we put in is more expensive -- land, labor, supplies,'' he said, adding that New Jersey had one of the highest farmland tax rates in the country. ''It makes for a higher cost, but prices are determined on a national level.''
 Ed Gaventa, 44, farms about 200 acres in Logan Township in Gloucester County. His farm lost most of its 20-acre pumpkin harvest because of the heat. He would usually harvest 200 bins, selling at $100 each on the wholesale market, but is ending up with seven bins, which he will try to sell at retail, expecting to make $1,000 at best, or $19,000 less than he had anticipated. ''In our business, we can't set a price,'' he said. ''We're at the mercy of what the market is going to give us.'' 
 Most of Connecticut received an inch and an half less rain than average this growing season, said Erica Fearn, executive director of the state's Farm Bureau. In the New London area, which has been extremely dry, some silage corn has been harvested early because of the weather. 
 The growing season in New York was also very dry, said Peter Gregg, a spokesman for the New York Farm Bureau, a volunteer group. ''Yields were down in a lot of cases because of the lack of rainfall,'' he said, ''but the quality of fruits was extremely good because of all the sunshine.'' Expect very sweet apples this year, he said.
 The weather created other problems, including heat damage from watering hot crops, premature aging of plants and poor melon and squash pollination by bees spending more energy keeping their hives cooled.
 Of course, some aspects of the combination of higher fuel costs and lower rainfall have worked to the farmers' advantage. Corn that is dry when it is harvested requires less drying before it is stored, which saves on the cost of running drying machines. Higher shipping costs may make locally grown produce more competitive with the grocery store variety. 
 Ray Hlubik, Paul's cousin, farms 300 acres in Chesterfield, in northern Burlington County. He said he felt lucky to be able to irrigate his vegetables, but that came at quite a cost. Diesel fuel to power his irrigation system now costs about $2.40 a gallon, he said, adding, ''Irrigation goes through diesel fuel like candy.'' 
 He worries that government payments to farmers may decrease, in the wake of the disastrous hurricanes that hit the Gulf Coast this year. 
 But at 54, he cannot imagine doing any other job. ''There's not a whole lot you can do,'' he said. ''You cope with it as best you can. One thing you can't let it do is aggravate you.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A dry summer helped to prevent corn from pollinating properly at Tom Brodhecker's farm in Newton, N.J. (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Gaventa Farms in Gloucester County, N.J., lost most of a 20-acre pumpkin harvest because of the heat. Its owner now expects to make $1,000 at best from the crop, or $19,000 less than he had anticipated. (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); DROUGHT (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); WEATHER (90%); IRRIGATION (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); CROP & LIVESTOCK ALLOCATIONS (78%); CROP PRODUCTION (78%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); HAY FARMING (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); DISASTER RELIEF (72%); GOVERNORS (71%); CORN MARKETS (70%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (65%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%) Agriculture; Corn; Hay; Pumpkins; Drought; Weather; Irrigation; Agriculture; Energy and Power

PERSON: Tina Kelley

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey; New York State; Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2005



12 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: Income Dropped Unexpectedly And Spending Fell in August 

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Americans' income fell unexpectedly and spending declined more than forecast in August, the government reported yesterday, as the economy registered the effects of Hurricane Katrina and as once-strong auto sales waned.
 A separate report from the University of Michigan showed that consumer confidence fell to its lowest level in almost 13 years last month, indicating that the impact of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita was taking a toll on Americans' perceptions about the economy.
''The higher level of energy prices is certainly affecting the psychology of consumers,'' said Lynn Reaser, chief economist for Bank of America's investment strategies group. ''But the underlying strength of the economy, and the continued increase in the relative strength of the underlying job market should prevent consumer spending from collapsing.'' 
 Personal incomes fell by 0.1 percent in August, to an annual rate of $10.29 trillion, according to the Commerce Department. The drop partly reflects the impact of an estimated $100 billion in uninsured losses to residential and business property from Hurricane Katrina, which pounded the Gulf Coast at the end of August. Analysts had expected incomes to rise 0.3 percent.
 Incomes rose 0.3 percent in July and last showed a decline in January, when they fell 2.6 percent. Wages and salaries, which make up slightly more than half of all personal income, were up 0.1 percent in August, or $9.1 billion.
 Spending slipped 0.5 percent, to $9.13 trillion, its biggest monthly drop in more than three years; the decline followed a rise of 1.2 percent in July. Economists had expected spending to fall 0.2 percent. When adjusted for inflation, real spending fell 1 percent.
 Both the increase in July spending and the drop-off in August were influenced by car and truck sales. Detroit's Big Three automakers sharply cut prices in June and July to clear out 2005 model-year cars, but the discounts appear to have lost much of their sizzle in August.
 Economists were concerned that rising energy prices may further restrain consumer spending later this year. Retail gasoline prices topped $3 a gallon last month, and heating bills are expected to rise significantly this winter because the hurricanes disrupted oil and gas supplies.
 ''The real challenge on the energy front hasn't hit yet because it's not winter,'' said Michael Moran, chief United States economist at Daiwa Securities Americas. ''When people start to get high heating bills, it will be another story.''
 Consumers already appear worried. The Michigan consumer sentiment index fell to 76.9 this month, from 89.1 in August, reaching its lowest level since October 1992. In July, the index was at 96.50. 
 In contrast to the consumer survey, an index measuring the mood of Chicago purchasing managers rebounded in September to 60.5 after falling to 49.2 in August, indicating that businesses were far more upbeat than consumers. 
 An index reading greater than 50 means more manufacturers said business was improving than said it was worsening. A national manufacturing survey is due out Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); HURRICANES (91%); HURRICANE KATRINA (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); WEATHER (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); GASOLINE (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (67%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (67%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (62%) United States Economy; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Rita (Storm); Katrina (Storm); United States Economy; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); Insurance; Income

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%) Commerce Department; University of Michigan

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Louisiana; New Orleans (La); Mississippi; Texas; Gulf of Mexico

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2005



13 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: A Storm Leaves Higher Heating Bills in Its Wake

BYLINE: By Mark A. Stein

 BODY:
HURRICANE RITA wrought perhaps $60 billion in damage to Texas and Louisiana last weekend, according to one estimate, easily enough to make it one of the 10 costliest storms ever. But after the extraordinary destructiveness of Hurricane Katrina less than a month earlier, it seemed almost like a blessing that it wasn't worse. 
Still, Rita raked over a part of the Gulf Coast's energy industry that had largely escaped damage from Katrina, extending and perhaps worsening shortages of gasoline and heating oil. Prices are likely to rise in the months to come, analysts and government forecasters said, and that could cut economic growth. Just days after the storm subsided, surveys showed that public confidence in the economy was flagging.
(RELATIVELY) LUCKY -- Hurricane Rita struck less heavily populated areas of the Gulf Coast with smaller force than Hurricane Katrina, mostly bypassing Houston. It nonetheless managed to do about $35 billion in damage covered by insurance companies and perhaps $25 billion more in flood damage that is either not insured or is covered by government programs.
 It also did less damage to offshore oil rigs, undersea pipelines and onshore refineries than Katrina, but the mere precaution of shutting them down in anticipation of the storm worsened a nationwide gasoline shortage and prevented refiners from building up stocks of home heating oil. It also worsened a shortage of natural gas, sending prices to a record $14.20 per thousand cubic feet on the New York Mercantile Exchange -- three times the $4.70 average price since 2000.
 President Bush called on Americans to conserve gasoline and avoid non-essential driving as retail gasoline prices climbed.
 Consumers and businesses can expect increasingly large heating bills this fall and winter, since natural gas and heating oil are already trading at record highs. The Energy Information Administration estimates that the country will spend 52 percent more on natural gas this winter than it did last winter, and that heating oil prices will rise 31 percent.
MIXED SIGNALS -- As energy prices rose and Southern states began to clean up after the hurricanes, two barometers of the country's outlook -- consumer confidence and new-home sales -- fell sharply in August. Confidence tumbled to its lowest level in more than two years.
 The Conference Board said its consumer confidence index fell to 86.6, from 105.5 in August, its sixth-biggest drop since the index was created in 1967. Home sales fell 9.9 percent, and were at their slowest pace since January. Both are volatile indicators that can swing widely from month to month, analysts said.
 That news, which reflects sentiment after the hurricanes, came about the same time other economic measures indicated that the economy was expanding before the storms. Orders for durable goods -- products like appliances, tools or aircraft that will last more than three years -- rose by 3.3 percent in August. Economists had expected a 0.7 percent rise, after a 5.3 percent decline in July. 
 Additional guidance on the economy's direction may be found in the monthly employment report, the first major report to cover the post-storm period. It is due out on Friday.
TRYING AGAIN -- US Airways emerged from bankruptcy protection for the second time in three years, this time as a merger partner with America West to create the country's biggest low-fare carrier, using the US Airways name. The goal is to match the success of Southwest, the low-fare airline that has remained profitable even as the industry over all has racked up billions in losses over the last five years.
 Aping Southwest will not be easy, because Southwest flies one type of plane, the narrow-body Boeing 737; serves only domestic routes; and has only one major hub. As a first step to simplify and focus its business, US Airways has said it will reduce its fleet by about 12 percent.
 United Airlines wants to be the next airline to come out of court protection, in February. It has spent three years in bankruptcy, which it used to cut wages and benefits, terminate pension plans and reorganize its finances.
LABOR PEACE -- With organized labor in disarray, a strike may seem particularly risky. But 24 days after a machinists' union struck Boeing, idling 18,000 workers and hobbling aircraft production, the two sides reached an agreement that both characterized as reasonable.
 The deal by Boeing and the union, the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, consisted largely of measures not taken. Workers agreed not to seek a raise for three years, and Boeing agreed not to ask employees to pay more for their health plan. Boeing also withdrew a demand to deny postretirement health benefits to newly hired workers, and agreed to pay more into an employee pension plan.
 A new labor federation, including seven unions that split from the A.F.L.-C.I.O. this summer, plans to try to unionize hundreds of thousands of the millions of workers whose jobs cannot be sent overseas or replaced by machines, including janitors, cashiers, nursing home aides and security guards.
PUTIN'S PREROGATIVE -- The Russian government under President Vladimir V. Putin extended its control of that nation's oil industry by directing the state-owned natural gas giant Gazprom to buy the privately owned Sibneft, the country's fifth-largest oil company, for $13 billion.
 The purchase would put most of Russia's energy resources, including about one-third of its oil production, under the direction of the government. Gazprom -- already the world's largest natural gas producer -- would control 116 billion barrels of oil and oil equivalent in natural gas. Only Saudi Arabia, with 263 billion barrels of reserves, and Iran, with 133 billion, have more.
 Gazprom's takeover of Sibneft suggests that President Putin plans to put the energy industry in government hands but inject competition into it by fomenting a rivalry between Gazprom and another huge state-run energy company, Rosneft, analysts said.
GUILTY PLEA -- Samuel Israel III, 46, the chief executive of the Bayou Group hedge fund, and Daniel Marino, 45, the former chief financial officer, emerged from hiding to admit they had lost hundreds of millions of dollars in investors' money despite assuring them over the years that they were reaping substantial gains.
 The men pleaded guilty to investment adviser fraud, mail fraud and conspiracy in Federal District Court in White Plains. Mr. Marino also pleaded guilty to wire fraud. Mr. Israel could be sentenced to as much as 30 years and Mr. Marino, 50 years. Each count also carries a possible fine of $250,000 and possible restitution.
 The men are scheduled to be sentenced on Jan. 9.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Striking machinists at Boeing agreed to a contract this week that preserved health benefits but did not include a raise for three years. (Photo by Ted S. Warner/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (93%); HEATING OIL (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); WEATHER (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); HEATING OIL PRICES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (79%); FLOOD INSURANCE (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); MACHINE TOOLS (76%); INSURANCE (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); NEW HOME SALES (75%); FUEL MARKETS (75%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); COMMODITIES TRADING (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); DURABLE GOODS (74%); HEDGE FUNDS (74%); DIVESTITURES (72%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (71%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (70%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); FACTORY ORDERS (70%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (70%); OIL EXTRACTION (70%); BOND MARKETS (69%); BONDS (64%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (62%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (61%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (60%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Rita (Storm); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Gas (Fuel); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Labor; Heating Oil; Katrina (Storm); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Airlines and Airplanes; Bankruptcies; Labor; Stocks and Bonds; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Hedge Funds; Frauds and Swindling; Ethics; Katrina (Storm); United States Economy; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); Housing ; Sales; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Organized Labor; Strikes; Plea Bargaining

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS & AEROSPACE WORKERS (59%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%) US Airways; Boeing Co; Gazprom; Bayou Group; America West Airlines; Conference Board; International Assn of Machinists and Aerospace Workers; Sibneft

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Mark A Stein; Daniel E Marino; Samuel III Israel

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) SOUTHEAST USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (59%) Gulf of Mexico; Texas; Russia; Louisiana; New Orleans (La); Mississippi

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2005



14 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Shares End the Week and a Volatile Quarter Higher 

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street ended an erratic quarter with a modest advance yesterday as falling oil prices helped ease concerns about weakening consumer spending. The major indexes finished both the week and the quarter higher.
 Stocks fluctuated throughout yesterday's session after news that personal income and spending had declined last month, and that consumer confidence had plunged from August. The numbers raised fears about further decreases this winter amid record energy prices. 
 The market was helped by the fact that crude oil eased as traders took profits following this week's run-up, but worries persisted about supply shortages in the aftermath of the hurricanes. A barrel of light crude dropped 55 cents, to $66.24, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average gained 15.92 points, or 0.15 percent, to 10,568.70, after spending most of the session in negative territory. The broader stock indicators also moved higher. The Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 1.13, or 0.09 percent, to 1,228.81, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 10.47, or 0.49 percent, to 2,151.69. 
 With the third quarter drawing to a close yesterday, investors acted tentatively as they prepared for the coming earnings season, which could indicate where the economy is headed as confidence weakens from rising gas prices and interest rates. 
 Edward Keon, chief investment strategist at Prudential Equity Group, said he remained optimistic despite a spate of profit warnings over the last month. ''The earnings pattern for the rest of this year and next year has actually strengthened a bit, as energy has gone up,'' Mr. Keon said. ''Earnings are going to be a nice support for the market over the next few weeks.''
 Wall Street began the quarter optimistic that the nation could weather higher energy prices, and the S.&P. 500 and the Nasdaq rallied to four-year highs in early August. 
 But the mood soured this month as back-to-back hurricanes affected Gulf Coast petroleum refineries, sending oil above $70 a barrel and retail gasoline well above $3 a gallon. Traders grew fearful of a slowdown in consumer spending, particularly ahead of the critical holiday shopping season.
 The University of Michigan's consumer sentiment index, released yesterday, echoed those concerns, with the September reading sliding to 76.9 from 89.1 in August. That confirmed a drop in confidence reported earlier this week by the Conference Board.
 Also yesterday, the Department of Commerce said consumer spending dropped 0.5 percent in August, compared with a 1.2 percent gain the month before, while income slipped 0.1 percent after growing 0.3 percent in July. Economists had been expecting spending to decline 0.2 percent and income to grow by 0.3 percent.
 In corporate news, Wal-Mart Stores paid $600 million to increase its stake in the Japanese retailer Seiyu to more than 50 percent, making the company a Wal-Mart subsidiary. Wal-Mart, which previously owned 42 percent of Seiyu, has been working with the Japanese company on installing computerized systems, cost cutting and supply-chain management. Wal-Mart rose 28 cents, to $43.82.
 Shares of Boeing gained after its machinists approved a new labor contract and ended a strike that shut its commercial plane assembly plants for almost a month. Boeing's 18,400 machinists walked off the job on Sept. 2 after rejecting a proposed contract that they said ignored several of their demands. Boeing added 67 cents, to $67.95.
 The consumer products maker Procter & Gamble said the Federal Trade Commission would clear its proposed $57 billion acquisition of Gillette provided it sheds several brands. P.&G. plans to sell Gillette's Rembrandt toothpaste and Right Guard, Soft & Dri and Dry Idea deodorant brands next quarter. P.&G. rose $1.32, to $59.46.
 Shares of Micron Technology, a chip maker, rose $1.11, or 9 percent, to close at $13.30, after it reported unexpectedly strong quarterly results.
 Advancing issues outpaced decliners by about 19 to 13 on the New York Stock Exchange, where preliminary consolidated volume of 2.09 billion shares fell behind the 2.21 billion shares traded Thursday.
 The Dow Jones industrials ended the week up 149.11 points, or 1.43 percent. The S.&P. 500 index was up 13.52 points, or 1.11 percent, while the Nasdaq rose 34.85 points, or 1.65 percent, for the week.
 The indexes' September performance reflected the market's anxiety about the hurricanes' impact, with the Dow gaining just 0.83 percent and the S.&P. 500 rising 0.69 percent, while the Nasdaq slipped 0.02 percent.
 And for the third quarter, the Dow gained 2.86 percent, the S.&P. climbed 3.15 percent and the Nasdaq rose 4.61 percent.
 Bonds continued their slide yesterday, with the price of the benchmark 10-year note falling 7/32, to 9913/32, by late in the day. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, climbed to 4.32 percent from 4.29 percent on Thursday. 
 The United States dollar was mixed yesterday against other major currencies in European trading, while gold prices edged lower.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); WEATHER (89%); PROFIT WARNINGS (79%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); FUEL MARKETS (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); HURRICANES (75%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (65%); INTEREST RATES (65%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Finances; Interest Rates; Credit; Government Bonds

COMPANY: SEIYU LTD (60%); WAL-MART STORES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (60%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (60%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (50%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2005



15 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SHORT CUTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: The Peace of Mind of Home Insurance, Unless You Use It

BYLINE: By Alina Tugend. 
E-mail Shortcuts@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THERE is a saying among consumer advocates regarding homeowner's insurance: ''Use it and lose it.'' 
 It is not a phrase that insurance companies are particularly fond of. But it sums up how all too many people feel about their homeowner's insurance: if you decide to make a claim, you are in danger of being dropped.
Take the case of Colin and Gabi Baigel of Mamaroneck, N.Y., who had a policy with a company for 12 years. A few years ago, they filed a claim for a few thousand dollars when a toilet overflowed and caused some damage. 
 Then, last year, during the winter ice storms, they put in another smallish claim -- $3,000 -- for some water leaks under the roof eaves. The next thing they knew, they were getting a call from their insurance broker telling them that their policy was not being renewed because of the two claims.
 ''I was frankly angry,'' Mr. Baigel said. ''I asked the broker, 'Why didn't you tell us not to file the second claim?' And he said, 'It's not our job.'''
 The Baigels finally found new insurance, with difficulty, since their claim history went on a nationwide computer system with access open to all companies.
 Consumer advocates like J.D. Howard, executive director of the Insurance Consumer Advocate Network ( www.ican2000.com) and a former insurance agent and claims adjuster, say such stories have a familiar ring.
 ''This has been a chronic problem regarding homeowner's insurance, but over the past five years, it's gotten worse, and based on consumer inquiries, taking place with long-term policyholders,'' Mr. Howard said.
 There have been so many complaints that lawmakers in some states, like California, have introduced legislation making it more difficult for insurance companies to drop customers upon renewal. 
 A number of factors have combined to create the current atmosphere.
 Hurricane Andrew in 1992 was the beginning of a series of natural and man-made disasters that hit the insurance industry hard.
 ''Hurricane Andrew was the first time we've seen those kind of losses,'' said Loretta Worters, vice president of the Insurance Information Institute (www.iii.org), a trade organization. ''It was the single most expensive loss'' for the insurance industry until Hurricane Katrina, she said.
 Other disasters like the Northridge earthquake in Southern California in 1994 and the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks piled on.
 Before Hurricane Andrew, the industry assumed losses from any hurricane would top out at about $8 billion, Ms. Worters said. In 2004, losses totaled $23 billion just from the four storms that hit Florida, and overall insurance losses totaled a record $27.3 billion for the year.
 The number of people living in vulnerable coastal areas has also escalated over the years, pushing up insurance prices, Ms. Worters said. Over the last two decades, the population in coastal counties -- in Florida, Texas and Virginia, in particular -- grew by 33 million people, or 28 percent.
 ''The homeowner thinks they're paying more and getting less, but a lot of people are living in harm's way,'' she said. 
 Then there was the mold panic, which was a turning point in the insurance industry. It made headlines in 2001 when a jury awarded $32 million (later reduced to $4 million on appeal) to a Texas family -- aptly from Dripping Springs -- that sued its insurance company. The family asserted that the insurance company delayed making payments to repair a plumbing leak, which led to mold infestation. That, in turn, caused respiratory and neurological damage, they said, and made their 22-room house uninhabitable.
 Mold claims started pouring in -- one New Yorker sued for $400 million -- shaking up the insurance industry and, although the Baigels could not have known this, making insurers particularly leery of water damage claims.
 Another major culprit is, of course, the economy. Back in the mid-1990's, ''when interest rates were approximately 5 percent and the equity market was robust, insurance companies were able to increase their financial strength despite generating underwriting losses,'' said Anthony Diodato, vice president at the A.M. Best Company, one of the largest insurance rating and information agencies. 
 But after 2000, when the stock market began its downturn, insurance companies could not rely as much on their investment income and capital gains to offset the losses, and needed to refocus on underwriting profitability, Mr. Diodato said.
 So insurers were, as he said, ''willing to eliminate policies that generated unprofitable results.''
 Consumer advocates say that another factor that led to the ''use it and lose it'' mentality is the greater use of databases that, much like a credit report, list a customer's claims history and how many claims have been made for a property.
 These databases are known as CLUE (Comprehensive Loss Underwriting Exchange) and A-PLUS (Automated Property Loss Underwriting System). Insurance companies use the databases all the time; consumer advocates say homeowners can -- and should -- obtain their reports to make sure their claims record is accurate.
 Simply inquiring about filing a claim can be noted on your record. The Insurance Information Institute notes that ''generally questions about coverage are not recorded in the database'' but that if a policyholder reports damage, even if no payment is made -- for whatever reason -- it will show up in the file.
 To get a copy of a CLUE report, which is the most prevalent type nationally, consumers can go to www.choicetrust.com. Under federal law, consumers can receive one copy of their reports at least once every 12 months; the frequency varies by state. Consumers whose insurance company uses A-PLUS can request a free copy from the carrier.
 The reality is, the nature of insurance is now in flux. The time may have passed when consumers could unthinkingly put in a claim for a few thousand dollars. 
 ''Is insurance changing -- is it really just for catastrophes -- in the way a lot of people's health insurance is changing?'' asked Amy Bach, executive director of United Policyholders, a resource for insurance buyers (www.unitedpolicyholders.org). ''If that's the case, then people should be paying less for it.''
 Nationwide, the average annual homeowner's premium is now $677, up $17 from last year. And it is likely to rise again next year, because of Hurricane Katrina. 
 And though many consumers, like the Baigels, think that filing two minor claims within a few years is nothing, Ms. Worters said insurance companies expect an average of one claim every seven years. ''So those who make more raise a red flag,'' she said. Sometimes that means the company will not renew a policy after a second claim; sometimes it will raise the rate. 
 Those who can afford it should also avoid making any claims under $5,000. It is simply not worth the chance of a rate increase or losing a policy.
 For the longer term, consumers need to look beyond price when buying a policy and find out what they will really get for their money, according to Ms. Bach. Agents serve two masters, she said: the insurance company and the customer. So they should advise consumers if it is unwise to put in a certain claim.
 When shopping for a policy, do not be afraid to quiz the broker intensely.
 ''Give your agent a hypothetical,'' Ms. Bach said. ''O.K., Mr. Agent, if my pipe bursts next winter and my bathroom floods and the damage is $5,000, what will happen to my insurance? Will you jack up my rates or cancel? If they say they can't tell you, that's false. If you don't like their answer, go to another agent.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Colin Baigel in Mamaroneck, N.Y., with his daughter, Michayla, left, and son, Daniel. After Mr. Baigel and his wife, Gabi, filed two home insurance claims, their provider dropped their policy. (Photo by Suzy Allman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (91%); INSURANCE (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); HURRICANES (89%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (85%); CATASTROPHIC LOSSES (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); WEATHER (74%); INSURANCE CLAIMS ADJUSTING (73%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); HURRICANE KATRINA (69%); EARTHQUAKES (69%); TERRORISM (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); LEGISLATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2005



16 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET VALUES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Gold's Running But Is It Worth Chasing After?

BYLINE: By Conrad de Aenlle

 BODY:
LIKE generals fighting the last war, investment advisers often talk up the prospects of assets that have already had big runs. Gold is the latest example, with analysts furnishing arguments for buying it that might have been more helpful before gold began its 80 percent-plus rally to 17-year highs.
 Gold, which languished near $250 an ounce in 2001, touched $476.30 last month, its highest level since the aftermath of the 1987 stock market crash. That breakout drove John Hill, a Citigroup analyst, to issue a report anticipating more to come. 
''We would be buyers of gold and select gold equities at current levels,'' he told his clients. ''We expect gold to work higher and fully expect a test of $500 an ounce in coming months.'' His preferred means of benefiting from such a rise is shares of two of the world's largest gold producers, Newmont Mining of Colorado and Barrick Gold of Toronto.
 Mr. Hill supported his forecast with some fundamental economic logic.
 ''Gold should be well positioned if the U.S. economy slows sharply'' because of the debt and budget and current account deficits that would probably occur, he said, ''or if the Fed attempts to reflate its way past near-term growth impediments.''
 There was enough reflation after the 2000 technology stock collapse to send the Hindenburg into the stratosphere. Gold soared when the Fed slashed interest rates, the dollar sank and investors sought a haven from the stock market and the prospect of inflation.
 ''Gold and gold stocks did exceptionally well against the backdrop of the Fed lowering rates to provide stimulus,'' Joe Wickwire, manager of the Evergreen Precious Metals fund, recalled.
 The economy, the stock market and the dollar recovered, and the Fed began tightening credit. That put the gold rally on pause. ''When everything is supposed to be going well, gold tends to do badly,'' Mr. Wickwire noted.
 Why is it rising again now, including a move of more than 10 percent in September? Sure, oil is expensive and back-to-back hurricanes do not put investors in a rosy mood, but the Fed, the dollar and stocks are holding firm.
 ''There is no single thing that I can think of in terms of news headlines'' to explain the run, said John Hathaway, manager of the Tocqueville Gold fund. ''I suspect that when the damage done by Katrina was fully appreciated, there was some anticipation in the market that the Fed would not raise interest rates, but it did and gold was up strongly.''
 AMONG Mr. Hathaway's favorite stocks are Gold Fields in South Africa and Newmont.
 Mr. Wickwire likes Newcrest Mining, a large, low-cost Australian producer; AngloGold Ashanti in South Africa, which he said had benefited from its low costs, the strong local currency and its acquisition of the Ghanaian miner Ashanti; and Meridian Gold, a small Nevada company with operations in Chile.
 Mr. Hathaway pointed out that ''toward the end of a play, the metal is a better place to be'' than gold stocks but that in his opinion, ''we're still so early in this that shares are probably a better play.''
 It may be later than he thinks. After four years and 80 percent, there are indications that the rally is getting long in the tooth.
 Mike Jalonen, an analyst at Merrill Lynch, recently raised his long-term price estimate for gold to $400 an ounce from $375, but the new target is still far lower than current levels. He noted, too, in a report to investors that gold tends to rally through the summer. But, he wrote, ''in seven of the past eight years, the seasonal rally has peaked out in late September/early October,'' so the calendar may be working against the metal.
 Its own popularity may be a greater impediment to further progress. Robert R. Prechter Jr., president of the investment advisory service Elliott Wave International, pointed to data showing record speculation in gold futures and near record short selling by the mining industry and other commercial interests that have displayed an uncanny knack for timing the market accurately.
 Gold has been coveted through the ages, yet there have been few occasions in modern times when buying and holding it, instead of owning stocks, was a good idea. And those instances occurred only when gold was lurking on the edge of town, not parading down investment's Main Street to public adoration.
 ''Good buying opportunities occur in times of pessimism,'' Mr. Prechter said. ''The best time to buy gold is when few care about it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLD MINING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); FUTURES (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); US DOLLAR (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); WEATHER (67%); HURRICANES (60%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (51%) Gold; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Futures and Options Trading

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI LTD (58%); NEWMONT MINING CORP (56%); NEWCREST MINING LTD (50%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); AU (NYSE) (58%); AGG (ASX) (58%); AGD (LSE) (58%); NEM (NYSE) (56%); NM (TSX) (50%); NCM (ASX) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (58%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (50%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (50%)

PERSON: Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) SOUTH AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2005



17 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1750 words

HEADLINE: In Conversion Of Insurer, Contracts Go To Insiders

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: ALBANY, Sept. 30 

 BODY:
This week, officials announced the takeover of New York's largest health insurer in a deal that will bring the state a huge windfall. All told, the state stands to collect billions for having allowed the insurer, once known as Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield, to become a profit-making company, which is now to be acquired by WellPoint, the nation's largest health insurer.
 The projected total, $4.8 billion, is nearly five times what state officials originally predicted they would net from the conversion, and a much-needed bonanza for the state budget. But over the years the deal has also paid political dividends and, perhaps inevitably, wound up producing contracts for companies with ties to the Pataki administration and the Republican Party.
When Gov. George E. Pataki decided in 2002 to allow Empire, a nonprofit insurer, to go commercial, he directed that much of the state's share of the deal be used to finance raises for hospital and nursing-home workers. That year the state's powerful health-care workers' union endorsed Mr. Pataki for re-election. 
 Empire became a company called WellChoice, and the state was given 95 percent of its new stock to sell over time. The unpaid chairman of the state fund charged with selling that stock is Mallory Factor, a merchant banker appointed by Governor Pataki, who is best known these days as a fund-raiser for Republicans around the nation. 
 With the next big sale scheduled for November, financial firms and law firms were competing for millions of dollars in contracts to help the state sell its shares.
 The takeover by WellPoint makes that sale unnecessary. Over the summer, J.P. Morgan Securities, which had earlier been selected to work on the sale of stock, was awarded a $5 million contract to advise the state on the takeover. J.P. Morgan Securities employs Michael C. Finnegan, who is a former law partner with and former top aide to the governor, as well as one of his closest friends. Mr. Finnegan, administration officials said, worked on the deal, and spoke with them about what role J.P. Morgan would play. 
 No one is suggesting that any of the deals are illegal, or even improper. State officials said that the decision to award the contract to J.P. Morgan, which was approved by State Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi, a Democrat, was a good one, made on the merits. They said the choice of J.P. Morgan was not influenced by the fact that Mr. Finnegan works there. And they said they chose J.P. Morgan to work as an adviser on the takeover because the state needed to act quickly, and Morgan was among the firms that were already knowledgeable about the deal.
 Pataki administration officials said that Mr. Finnegan's opinions on how to move forward on the deal and his knowledge of state government were helpful. They added that the outcome for the state was good, because the state and the fund that holds its stock joined forces to press for a more favorable takeover deal. 
 But a look at the behind-the-scenes machinations surrounding the state's role in the conversion of Empire, and the subsequent sale of its assets, at least shows how some firms seeking to work on the deal sent politically connected employees to make their cases, and how the worlds of finance and politics intersected. It was perhaps unavoidable that such intersections should occur, given a deal of this magnitude -- an unusual foray by state government into the world of stock sales and mergers and acquisitions --during a third-term administration, in which many former top aides to the governor have taken jobs in the private sector. 
 The deal is rooted in the state's decision three years ago to allow Empire, which began as a nonprofit insurer decades ago and received substantial taxpayer support over the years, to become a profit-making company. Empire became WellChoice and gave the state most of its stock to sell; the proceeds were earmarked for health-care programs and raises for health workers. 
 The Public Asset Fund, a little-known, unpaid, five-member board that holds the state's stock and was responsible for awarding contracts to handle the sales, became an object of intense interest to firms around the state. Its chairman, Mr. Factor, is a Republican fund-raiser whom New York magazine recently called ''the A.T.M. for Bush's America.'' This year, when he became chairman of the Free Enterprise Fund, a Washington-based group that promotes conservative economic policies, a news release announced that he had raised more than $5 million in recent years for President Bush and Congressional candidates. 
 Mr. Factor gained prominence in New York political circles as a host of the Monday Meeting, a forum that brings politicians together with conservatives and businesspeople in Manhattan. His partner at the forum, James Higgins, is also a member of Public Asset Fund, appointed by the State Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, a Republican. Both Governor Pataki and Mr. Bruno have addressed the Monday Meeting.
 Mr. Factor's dual role, as a fund-raiser and the head of a state entity with the power to award contracts, has raised some eyebrows in business circles. One businessman provided The New York Times a copy of an e-mail message Mr. Factor sent out in February to raise money for the National Republican Congressional Committee. The message went to a number of potential donors, including an employee of Lehman Brothers, one of the firms that had been seeking an underwriting position in the sale of WellChoice stock.
 ''This is important -- we need to help grow the majority!!!'' the message said.
 Mr. Factor said in an interview that he raises money mostly for national, not state or local, campaigns. He said that his fund-raising activities were unconnected to his role on the Public Asset Fund, and that he sent his appeals out to a list of e-mail addresses that long predated his work for that fund.
 He praised the fund's work on the Empire deal. ''The board just worked so hard on this thing, spent countless hours of their time on this, for the good of the state,'' he said. 
 It is hardly unusual for big financial firms and law firms to hire former public officials. And when the Public Asset Fund met earlier this year, several firms seeking work on the next stock sale sent employees with Republican ties to help make their case. 
 The meeting attracted Rick A. Lazio, the former Long Island congressman who ran against Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton in 2000. Mr. Lazio now works for J.P. Morgan Chase, the parent company of J.P. Morgan Securities, which was selected as an underwriter. John J. Faso, the Republican who ran for state comptroller in 2002, was there. The law firm he now works for, Manatt Phelps & Phillips, was awarded legal work. Frank Mahoney, the brother of one of the governor's top political consultants, Kieran Mahoney, was there, too. He works for Lehman Brothers, which was also selected as an underwriter.
 The fund ended up choosing two financial advisers, Sagent Advisors and the Blackstone Group; a team of underwriters; and two law firms. Independent panels interviewed and rated the firms, and their top choices were approved by the fund. The fund barred firms from serving as both underwriters and financial advisers on the deal. 
 Of course, the takeover of WellChoice by WellPoint means that there will be no November stock sale, and no underwriting. 
 But J.P. Morgan, which the fund had selected as the lead underwriter, was then hired by the State Division of the Budget to offer advice on the takeover. John F. Cape, the state's budget director, said that when he learned that a merger was likely, he spoke to officials at J.P. Morgan, including Mr. Finnegan, and decided that the state needed its own financial adviser on the pending deal. He said that the state selected J.P. Morgan because it was already up to speed on the details from its work as an underwriter.
 When Mr. Finnegan left his post as counsel to the governor in 1997 to work at J.P. Morgan Securities, where he is a managing director, he said that he planned to do no work involving New York State. But state officials said he worked on the WellChoice deal. Adam Castellani, a spokesman for J.P. Morgan, said that Mr. Finnegan was not involved in the firm's pitch to get business from the fund. 
 A former member of the Public Asset Fund, speaking on the condition of anonymity, asked why, if the fund had already selected financial advisers for the deal, the state would need its own. 
 Mr. Cape said that while the Public Asset Fund's advisers were interested in getting the best price for the company in the takeover, the state felt that it needed its own adviser to assess all the possible effects of the proposed merger. He said the state had other concerns besides price, such as how a takeover would affect the state's financial plans and health-care budget, how to minimize the loss of jobs in the state, and the possible effects on the cost and availability of insurance for consumers. 
 And he said the advice offered by J.P. Morgan unquestionably helped the state get a better deal than it would have gotten otherwise. 
 Assemblyman Alexander B. Grannis, a Manhattan Democrat who is chairman of the Assembly's insurance committee, said he did not question the state's need for advice on the deal, or J.P. Morgan's expertise to provide it. But he suggested that it might have been best if the state had allowed more firms to bid for the advising work, given Mr. Finnegan's prominence as a former member of the Pataki administration.
 The contract with J.P. Morgan was approved by Mr. Hevesi, the comptroller. David Neustadt, a spokesman for the comptroller, said: ''Given the importance of the deal, the amount of money involved and that it was being handled by an independent public authority, we think it was prudent and entirely appropriate for D.O.B. to hire an adviser to help protect the state's interests. Given the time frame involved, it was appropriate not to conduct a full competitive bid. There is no question that J.P. Morgan is one among a number of firms highly qualified to provide this kind of advice.''
 The deal is proving a boon to the state. State officials originally predicted that they would net $1 billion on the conversion of Empire. But the WellChoice stock grew in value, and two initial stock sales have already yielded the state $782 million. Now, the takeover by WellPoint will give the state a total of $2 billion in cash and $2 billion in stock.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mallory Factor and his wife, Elizabeth. Mr. Factor, a Republican fund-raiser, oversees the insurer's stock sale. (Photo by Michele Abeles)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); INSURANCE (90%); LOBBYING (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); CONTRACT AWARDS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); DIVESTITURES (76%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (75%); LEGAL SERVICES (74%); POLITICS (74%); MERCHANT BANKING (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); ETHICS (69%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); NURSING HOMES (67%); BONDS (66%); MUTUAL FUNDS (65%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (58%) Medicine and Health; Medicine and Health; Ethics; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Politics and Government ; Stocks and Bonds; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Lobbying and Lobbyists

COMPANY: EMPIRE BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (70%); WELLPOINT INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Blue Cross and Blue Shield; Morgan, J P, Securities Inc; Wellpoint; Wellchoice (Co) ; Public Asset Fund (NYS)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (70%); JPM (LSE) (70%); 8634 (TSE) (70%); WLP (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (70%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (70%)

PERSON: Michael Cooper; George E (Gov) Pataki; Alan G (Comptroller) Hevesi; Mallory Factor; Michael Finnegan

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2005



18 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: A Wolfie In Sheep's Clothing

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Paul Wolfowitz is having fun.
 ''It's fun to have the chance to be a retail politician again,'' he told Andrew Balls of The Financial Times on a recent trip to India. It was an economic odyssey designed to warm up his image by tipping off the press to record his shirt-sleeve visit to a slum and his street dancing with children in Andhra Pradesh.
 When the reporter noted that Mr. Wolfowitz's role as No.2 at the Pentagon must seem distant, he agreed, saying, ''Yes, it does seem like a long time ago.'' 
 A lot has changed for this architect of the Iraq war since he left the scene of the accident. Following the lead of that other woolly-headed war theoretician, Robert McNamara, Wolfie scuttled to the World Bank, where he changed the subject from bollixing up Iraq to fixing up Africa. 
 Unlike the Powell maxim ''If you break it, you own it,'' the Wolfowitz philosophy is ''If you break it, walk away from it.''
 Where on earth are those who egged on the Iraq civil war? The neoconservatives have moved on to debates about China and Iran. Richard Perle has dropped out of sight, except to pop up, as he did at the American Israel Public Affairs Committee's annual meeting in May, to urge a military raid on Iran if it's ''on the verge of a nuclear weapon.''
 The president and his generals are still offering gauzy assessments of our fight against an insurgency that grows ever more vicious, and dishing out loopy justifications for the war.
 Before Mr. Bush was dragged out of Crawford this summer, he was making the case that we had to keep killing in Iraq to honor troops killed there. This week, Gen. Richard Myers offered more circular logic, warning that a U.S. defeat would invite another 9/11. The Bush administration used 9/11 as a pretext for invading Iraq and now says it can't leave for fear of spurring another 9/11. 
 Wolfie and fellow hawks turned Iraq into a harbor for Al Qaeda with an invasion they justified by falsely calling Iraq a harbor for Al Qaeda. General Myers said that America couldn't leave and allow Al Qaeda to dominate Iraq because ''then in my view we would have lost, and the next 9/11 would be right around the corner, absolutely.''
 Here's the weirdest perversion: First Rummy, as President Reagan's Mideast envoy, was photographed with Saddam, supporting him in the war against Iran. Then Rummy and other hawks rushed the U.S. into war against Saddam and ended up turning Iraq over to Shiites intertwined with Iran. And now Richard Perle thinks we might have to bomb Iran. 
 The president spent years saying that Al Qaeda was on the run, and Rummy spent years saying we just had to finish off a few Saddam ''dead enders.'' But four years after Mr. Bush promised to get ''the people who knocked these buildings down,'' they are finally talking about Al Qaeda as a threat again.
 Perhaps they have no choice, now that Al Qaeda has supposedly started its own weekly newscast on the Internet, ''The Voice of the Caliphate,'' with an anchorman wearing a ski mask and an ammunition belt, and props like a Koran and a rifle pointed at the camera. Its top story was joy over Katrina damage.
 Testifying before the Senate Armed Services Committee on Thursday, Gen. John Abizaid called Al Qaeda ''the main threat we face'' in Iraq, citing its 400 suicide bombers deployed worldwide. So, when W. says if we fight them there we won't have to fight them here, that's just nutty.
 Though the Bush gang has maintained that it would be hard for Al Qaeda to operate on the run, General Abizaid noted that the group is ''empowered by modern communications, expertly using the virtual world for planning, recruiting, fund-raising, indoctrination and exploiting the mass media'' to break the U.S. will and try to form a haven in Iraq. 
 Al Qaeda is exploiting tribal tensions intensified by the bungled U.S. occupation. Mr. Wolfowitz's assumption that America could conquer Baghdad and install the Shiites at the expense of the Sunnis -- with bouquets thrown -- in a religious war that has been going on for centuries, was naive and dangerous.
 The rest of us may be glued to the gruesome pileup of bodies in Iraq, but Wolfie has moved on. He told The Financial Times that he still thought the U.S. and the British did ''the right thing'' for ''the right reasons,'' and ''hopefully, it's going to turn out the right way.''
 He said that wherever he travels, from Burkina Faso to Bosnia, Iraq rarely comes up. How fortunate for him.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); TERRORISM (88%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); AL-QAEDA (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); CIVIL WAR (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (74%); IRAQ WAR (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ARMED FORCES (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (54%) Maureen Dowd; Paul Wolfowitz

GEOGRAPHIC: ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA (73%) UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2005



19 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Instead of the Soft Path, Try Hard Cash

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
President Bush has been getting grief for telling people to cut back on driving while he gas-guzzles his way across the country. But he's merely expressing Washington's bipartisan consensus: energy conservation is a wonderful idea -- for other people.
 In the past, Republicans weren't quite as devoted to conservation as Democrats were, especially ones like John Kerry. During last year's campaign he called for massive cutbacks in energy use as he traveled among his five houses on a Gulfstream that was less fuel-efficient per passenger than Air Force One. 
But Republicans shuttling between just two homes have generally at least paid lip service to energy conservation, because they know most voters like it in principle. The problem is that these voters, for some odd reason, cling to the notion that their personal travels are just as essential as politicians'.
 So both parties refuse to consider the best way to save energy: charging more for gasoline. It's taboo to raise the gas tax, or even to raise prices during a shortage. 
 The gas stations that increased prices after Hurricane Katrina were having precisely the effect that Bush wanted when he tried to discourage driving. But he lumped them with street criminals, saying there should be ''zero tolerance of people breaking the law during an emergency such as this, whether it be looting, or price-gouging at the gasoline pump.'' 
 To assuage voters, politicians hide the price tag when they try to impose conservation. They've forced cars and appliances to become more energy-efficient, which makes them more expensive, but no one blames Congress for the higher sticker prices. 
 The rationale for these policies is that consumers will save money in the long run by using less energy -- they're just not savvy enough to realize it when they're shopping for a new car or refrigerator. But even if you doubt consumers' judgment, it doesn't follow that regulators are any more savvy when they dictate what should be sold.
 The efficiency standards for appliances, far from paying for themselves, will cost consumers roughly $50 billion through 2050, according to Ronald Sutherland, an economist at George Mason University. And those costs are borne disproportionately by low-income and middle-income households.
 Besides being costly, conservation rules produce unintended consequences. The fuel-efficiency standards for cars led to that environmentalist nightmare, the S.U.V., which became popular because of a loophole in the rules. 
 Consumers who wanted a big car had to buy one pretending to be a truck because carmakers were forced to downsize their fleets. As cars became lighter, they also became more dangerous, resulting in an additional 2,000 deaths per year, according to the National Research Council. 
 During the last three decades, regulators in California and other states forced utilities to subsidize alternative energy sources and technologies that reduced electricity consumption. That was the energy ''soft path,'' as its advocates described it in rhapsodies like the ones I heard at Robert Redford's place at Sundance in 1989. 
 At Redford's conference, devoted to ''healing the planet,'' utility and coal-company executives listened to lectures from the soft-path advocates explaining why the energy soft path would more than pay for itself. The executives listened politely, but one of them summed up their reaction with the punch line from the old story about a failed dog-food marketing campaign. ''The dogs ain't eatin' it,'' he said.
 The utility executives didn't think these conservation measures made economic sense -- and they turned out to be right, as evidenced by later research and the soaring electricity prices in California to cover the soft-path boondoggles forced on the utilities. Those mistakes haven't deterred today's energy conservationists from coming up with more money-saving schemes for society, but there's usually a good reason the dogs ain't eatin' it already.
 Individuals don't always make the best choices about energy use -- you can make a case that we drive too much because the price of gasoline doesn't reflect all the social costs. But if a new gas tax covered those costs, then we'd have all the incentive we need to conserve energy. While a gas tax may sound politically hopeless, it's worth considering (in another column) ways to induce both parties to go for it.
 A tax would make people figure out on their own how to burn less gasoline. Washington wouldn't need to lecture them on conservation or dictate what kind of cars they can buy. Freed from supervisory duties, some politicians might even think about conserving energy themselves. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); GASOLINE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); FUEL TAX (73%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); HURRICANES (71%); WEATHER (71%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%); TAX INCREASES (67%); HURRICANE KATRINA (66%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (64%); AUTOMAKERS (64%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (64%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JOHN F TIERNEY (73%) John Tierney; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2005



20 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: More Than Ever, the U.S. Spends and the Foreigners Lend 

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
WHO will end up paying for Hurricane Katrina? Or for the war in Iraq? Or for any other spending that Congress chooses to authorize?
 To an extent not seen in previous periods of rising federal deficits, the answer is that it will not be Americans who put up the cash, but foreigners.
Since the end of 2000, as George W. Bush was preparing to take office, federal debt is up by $1.1 trillion. American investors, as a group, have lent not one penny of that. They have, instead, been net sellers of Treasury securities. 
 The latest numbers on just who buys and owns Treasury debt, released in late September, showed that foreign investors and central banks have increased their holdings of Treasuries by $1 trillion since Mr. Bush took office. Another $213 billion was bought by the Federal Reserve.
 That record stands in stark contrast to the deficit-spending president to whom Mr. Bush is often compared -- Ronald Reagan. Reagan still holds the record for largest dollar increase in federal debt, $1.4 trillion. But it took him eight years to accomplish that, in contrast with Mr. Bush's four-and-a-half years.
 During the Reagan years, overseas investors were willing to take up only about a sixth of the new debt. When Reagan took office, foreigners were owed 21 percent of the national debt, excluding the share owed to the Federal Reserve. By the time he left office, that figure was down to 19 percent. It held steady under President George H.W. Bush, but began to rise under President Bill Clinton, when overseas investors bought more Treasuries than were issued. By the time he left office, the percentage was up to 36 percent. Now it is 54 percent.
 As the foreigners signed up to buy, many Americans bailed out. American banks and insurance companies, which collectively owned more than 40 percent of Treasuries when Dwight D. Eisenhower was president, now own less than 8 percent.
 While Mr. Bush seems certain to set a record for biggest dollar increase in debt under one president, by other measures this has not been a particularly profligate administration. Net debt has risen at an annual rate of 6.4 percent under President Bush. That is far higher than the 0.4 percent rate under his predecessor, Bill Clinton, but it is below the rate of all presidents from Gerald R. Ford to George H.W. Bush.
 Mr. Ford, who served for less than two years, was hit by the combined whammy of a recession and soaring deficit spending as oil prices surged. Under him, the national debt rose at a rate of more than 30 percent a year as the government spent money to keep the economy afloat. It was not enough to prevent the deepest recession since the Great Depression.
 Mr. Ford also faced rising interest rates, as investors reacted with fear to the prospects of further inflation and demanded a premium to buy that flood of Treasury securities. Mr. Bush, by contrast, has been blessed by low interest rates, in part because foreign central banks are buying Treasuries to support the dollar, regardless of how low interest rates may be.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Foreign Assistance''Overseas investors and institutions now own more Treasury securities than do Americans, but, despite rising budget deficits, the debt is growing less rapidly under President Bush than most other recent presidents.Percentage of Treasury debt, by ownerDec. 1968U.S. HOUSEHOLDS AND MUTUAL FUNDS: 37%BANKS AND INSURANCE COMPANIES: 39OTHER DOMESTIC: 19FOREIGN: 6Dec. 1988U.S. HOUSEHOLDS AND MUTUAL FUNDS: 27BANKS AND INSURANCE COMPANIES: 19OTHER DOMESTIC: 35FOREIGN: 19June 2005U.S. HOUSEHOLDS AND MUTUAL FUNDS: 18BANKS AND INSURANCE COMPANIES: 7OTHER DOMESTIC: 21FOREIGN: 54Percentage of outstanding Treasury debt owned by foreignersGraph tracks Treasury debt owned by foreigners since 1953.Annual rate of growth in debt:Eisenhower: 0.6%Kennedy: 1.4Johnson: 0.8Nixon: 2.2Ford: 37.9Carter: 10.4Reagan: 14.8G.H.W. Bush: 10.6Clinton: 0.4G.W. Bush: 6.4All debt figures exclude securities owned by the Federal Reserve.(Source by Haver Analytics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEBT (93%); NATIONAL DEBT (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); RECESSION (88%); IRAQ WAR (78%); HURRICANES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); HURRICANE KATRINA (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); INSURANCE (65%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (63%); INTEREST RATES (60%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE H W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2005



21 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: On the Potomac, a Cultural Evolution

BYLINE: By LYNETTE CLEMETSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 30 

 BODY:
In an artistic ''war room'' in the Kennedy Center, anxious staff members were leafing through signs directing artists to ''stage right'' and elsewhere in Chinese. Down the hall, hundreds of packages of instant noodles lined the walls of a rehearsal space, quick comfort food for performers who don't eat granola bars. Below the Eisenhower Stage, workers were constructing makeshift dressing rooms for the 150 performers and stagehands involved in opening night. 
 The mad-dash preparations were finishing flourishes in a four-year journey to ''The Festival of China,'' a monthlong Kennedy Center event that begins on Saturday, China's National Day. (Sheer coincidence, organizers said.) Featuring more than 800 artists and 53 performances, the festival mixes traditional Chinese opera, folk music and acrobatics with modern dance, technology-infused puppetry, contemporary music and fashion. The splashy $5 million extravaganza, the most ambitious and costly international collaboration in the Kennedy Center's 35-season history, is part of a larger push by the center to increase its profile and relevance. ''In terms of what we are trying to do on the international scene, this is the largest manifestation of that goal,'' said Michael M. Kaiser, the president of the Kennedy Center, in an interview days before the opening. 
The festival serves an even grander ambition for China -- to broaden and soften its image before the American public, which often views it as an emerging threat. Though initiated by the Kennedy Center, the cultural invasion of flying acrobats, painted opera singers and lithe dancers provides an opportune counterbalance to the recent focus in Washington on China's military buildup, its bids to buy American companies and its increasing financial clout fueled by a ballooning American trade deficit. 
 ''It's coming at a very useful time for China,'' said Elizabeth C. Economy, director of Asia studies for the Council on Foreign Relations in New York. ''Anything, especially in Washington, that brings acrobats and arts and helps inform people about all the positives China brings to the world helps to provide a much more complete picture of the country.''
 Han Hong, first secretary for cultural affairs at the Chinese Embassy in Washington, said Americans should ''stop scaring themselves'' and enjoy the show. ''We hope the American people will have a chance, through the arts, to see what the Chinese people are doing,'' she said, as she busily made arrangements for the arrival of two official delegations from China. ''To see the direction the country is turning -- toward peace, prosperity and harmony, within our society and with the outside world.''
 Alicia B. Adams, head of the Kennedy Center's international programs and curator of the festival, said the center controlled all artistic elements of the festival. The Chinese government, which contributed roughly $1.7 million in financing, selected some of the nonperformance contributions, like an outdoor sculpture exhibition that includes a rather puzzling bright red dinosaur near the center's main entrance.
 Performances include an adaptation of Zhang Yimou's film ''Raise the Red Lantern'' by the National Ballet of China; a modern dance collaboration by companies from Beijing, Guangdong and Hong Kong; and a presentation by the Beijing People's Art Theater of ''Teahouse,'' Lao She's 1957 play chronicling the fall of the last imperial dynasty to the rise of Communism as experienced by the patrons of a Beijing gathering place. 
 Outsize outdoor performances include one with 100 pianos, another with 250 drums. A fashion exhibition, ''The New China Chic,'' features clothes by ethnic Chinese designers including Vivienne Tam, Derek Lam and Anna Sui. (Mr. Kaiser will wear a suit from the Hong Kong label Blanc De Chine on opening night.)
 The opening gala will conclude with a rising funnel cloud of more than 7,000 pyrotechnic devices launched from a barge on the Potomac River, that should -- organizers' fingers crossed -- swirl into a dramatic 10-minute fireworks display. 
 ''It will not rain, it will not rain,'' Ms. Adams willed aloud, as she surveyed the sweep of outdoor activity space. 
 In a project commissioned by the Kennedy Center, the Chinese-American playwright and director Ping Chong has teamed up with China's Shaanxi Folk Art Theater for a puppet production called ''Cathay: Three Tales of China.'' The work mixes traditional puppetry and multimedia effects to explore, like ''Teahouse,'' pivotal moments in China's history. 
 Unlike ''Teahouse,'' however, the production ends not with the rise of Communism but with China's frenzied rush toward capitalism. The final scene is a conversation between two statues -- Tang dynasty tomb guardians now trapped in a glass showcase in a modern five-star hotel -- listening to tourists quizzically observing an old man in a Mao suit as they head for Pizza Hut. 
 Though the work is not overtly political, Mr. Chong said, he initially worried about interference from China's Ministry of Culture, which has a liaison official in the Shaanxi theater company. ''It could have been a cultural train wreck,'' he said, adding that he ended up very pleased with the collaboration. 
 He said a Chinese culture official did express concern over one line in which a puppet character ranted: ''Corruption, corruption! There's nothing but corruption, from top to bottom!'' Mr. Chong said that while he was unclear just what it was about the line that set off alarms, he was able to appease worries by removing ''from top to bottom'' to make the charge more general. 
 Ms. Adams, who has made nearly a dozen trips to China in the past four years to organize the event, said her only tussle with Chinese counterparts was not over politics, but art. As China's arts companies lose state subsidies and have to depend more on market popularity, large, Disney-like spectaculars have become extremely popular. The Chinese wanted one such Shanghai-based production included in the festival. 
 Ms. Adams said that when she declined, believing the show was more entertainment than art, her Chinese hosts gently prodded her by repeatedly scheduling meetings about the production and sending brochures to her Washington office. ''It went on for months,'' she said. 
 So far, said organizers, there have been few hitches for a project with so many moving parts. Only one of the hundreds of Chinese participants involved was denied a travel visa by the United States. As of Friday, there had been no applications for protest permits in the area surrounding the Kennedy Center from groups opposed to the Chinese government. 
 As performers arrived, rehearsals began for an acrobatic rendering of a ''Swan Lake'' pas de deux in which a dancer performs most of the scene balanced delicately on her partner's shoulders. As Washington readies for the grand cultural showcase in the midst of an uneasy political climate, it is a balancing act all sides can relate to.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Wu Zhengdan and Wei Baohua rehearse for the Kennedy Center's monthlong ''Festival of China.'' (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. B8)
 Far left, terra-cotta warriors are among the art featured at ''The Festival of China'' at the Kennedy Center. Above, a worker sets up an open-air marketplace. Left, bilingual signs for the performers. (Photographs by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. B15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (92%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MUSIC (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); DANCERS (78%); POP & ROCK (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); DANCE (76%); OPERA (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%) Culture; Festival of China

ORGANIZATION: JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (94%) Kennedy Center (Washington, DC)

PERSON: Lynette Clemetson

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (96%); ASIA (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2005



22 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 10-02-05: FREAKONOMICS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Dog-Waste Management

BYLINE: By Stephen J. Dubner and Steven D. Levitt. 
Stephen J. Dubner and Steven D. Levitt are the authors of ''Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything.'' More information can be found at www.freakonomics.com.

 BODY:
The DNA of Dog Dirt
Twenty-five hundred tons. That's how much manure was produced every day by the 200,000 horses that moved people and goods around New York City in the late 19th century. Much of the manure went uncollected, which posed a terrible problem. (This is to say nothing of the horse urine, the deafening clatter of hooves or the carcasses left to rot in the street.) The manure was so widespread and smelly and unsanitary that brownstones were built with their entrances on the second floor so that homeowners might rise above it.
Like so many seemingly overwhelming problems, this one was resolved, quite painlessly, by technology. The electric streetcar and then the automobile led to the disappearance of the horses, and with them went their dung.
 Most of the animal dung produced in today's New York comes from our dogs. (Estimates of the dog population vary widely, but one million is a good guess.) All their poop doesn't just lie there, of course. In 1978, New York enacted its famous (and widely imitated) ''pooper scooper'' law, and the city is plainly cleaner, poop-wise, than it was.
 But with a fine of just $50 for the first offense, the law doesn't provide much financial incentive to pick up after your dog. Nor does it seem to be vigorously enforced. Let's pretend that 99 percent of all dog owners do obey the law. That still leaves 10,000 dogs whose poop is left in public spaces each day. Over the last year, the city ticketed only 471 dog-waste violations, which suggests that the typical offender stands a roughly 1-in-8,000 chance of getting a ticket. So here's a puzzle: why do so many people pick up after their dogs? This would seem to be a case in which social incentives -- the hard glare of a passer-by and the offender's feelings of guilt -- are at least as powerful as financial and legal incentives.
 If social forces get us most of the way there, how do we deal with the occasional miscreant who fails to scoop? After all, a walk through just about any New York neighborhood confirms that compliance with the law is hardly complete. The Parks Department, meanwhile, which conducts regular cleanliness checks of parks and playgrounds, says that dog poop accounts for 20 percent of its ''cleanliness failures.'' Dog poop is plainly far less of a nuisance than horse manure ever was. But if you are, say, a parent who walks two kids to school every day and tries to keep all three of you from experiencing that telltale soft smush of a misstep, it is a nuisance nonetheless.
 With horses, the solution was simply to eliminate them. Might there be a way to get rid of dog poop without getting rid of the dogs? It might help for a moment to think of a dog as if it were a gun. Using laws to eliminate guns has proved extremely difficult. A given gun lasts a very long time, and as with dogs, guns are widely loved. But getting rid of guns should never have been the point of gun control; the point, rather, ought to be getting rid of the misuse of guns -- that is, the use of guns in crimes. Consequently, the most successful policies are those that directly punish misuse, like mandatory prison sentences for any crime involving a gun. In California and elsewhere, such measures have substantially reduced gun crime.
 Similarly, the problem in New York is not so much with dogs per se. So perhaps attending to the real problem -- their poop -- will prompt a solution.
 Here's an idea: DNA sampling. During the licensing procedure, every dog will have to provide a sample of saliva or blood to establish a DNA file. Then, whenever a pile of poop is found on the sidewalk, a sample can be taken to establish the offender's DNA. (Because stomachs and intestinal walls shed so many cells, poop is in fact a robust DNA source; during a murder trial in Indiana in 2002, the defendant was convicted in large part because the dog poop in his sneaker tread linked him to the scene of the crime.) Once the fecal DNA is matched to a given dog's DNA file, the dog's owner will be mailed a ticket. It might cost about $30 million to establish a DNA sample for all the dogs of New York. If people stop violating the law, then New York has spent $30 million for cleaner streets; if not, the $30 million is seed money for a new revenue stream.
 Unfortunately, there's a big drawback to this plan. In order to match a pile of poop with its source, you will need to have every dog's DNA on file -- and in 2003, the most recent year on record, only 102,004 dogs in New York were licensed. Even though a license is legally required, costs a mere $8.50 a year and can be easily obtained by mail, most dog owners ignore the law, and with good reason: last year, only 68 summonses were issued in New York City for unlicensed dogs. So even if the DNA plan were enacted today, most offenders would still go unpunished. In fact, it stands to reason that the typical licensed dog is less likely to offend than the typical unlicensed dog, since the sort of owner who is responsible enough to license his dog is also most likely responsible enough to clean up after it.
 How, then, to get all of New York's dogs licensed? Instead of charging even a nominal fee, the city may want to pay people to license their dogs. And then, instead of treating the licensing law as optional, enforce it for real. Setting up random street checks for dog licenses may offend some New Yorkers, but it certainly dovetails nicely with the Giuliani-era ''broken windows'' approach to low-level crime.
 Before you dismiss the entire dog-DNA idea as idiotic -- which, frankly, we were about to do the moment it popped into our heads -- consider this: it turns out that civic leaders in Vienna and Dresden have recently floated the same idea. (Indeed, one Vienna politician cited Mayor Giuliani as his inspiration.) Closer to home, an eighth-grade girl in Hoboken, N.J., has also proposed the DNA solution. During a meeting last year of the Hoboken City Council, Lauren Mecka, the daughter of a police captain, argued her dog-poop case. ''While adults like yourselves are appalled and disgusted by the sight of the uncollected dog poop that adorns our parks and sidewalks,'' she said, ''it is children like myself and younger who run the greater risk of contact and exposure. We're the ones who ride our bikes, throw our balls and roll our blades on the city's sidewalks. And we're the ones who have our picnics, stage our adventures and carry out our dragon-slaying fantasies on our parks' grassy lawns.''
 The council, Mecka says today, didn't seem to take her proposal seriously. Why? ''They dismissed it, basically, because I was a 12-year-old kid.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Istvan Banyai)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL WASTES (90%); HORSES (90%); DOGS (89%); PETS (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (70%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (68%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



23 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 10-02-05: QUESTIONS FOR WILLIAM F. WELD; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Same Job, New Location

BYLINE: By Deborah Solomon

 BODY:
Q: Why have you, a former governor of Massachusetts, bothered to take up residence in New York City and seek the Republican gubernatorial nomination?
 I think New York is the most beautiful state in the country.
Really? It's not more beautiful than Montana or Arizona. I think it is. I like the Eastern mountains better than the Rockies. I think the heavily wooded Eastern mountains are more beautiful than the bare Western mountains. 
 But when do you see the woods anyhow, since you live and work in Manhattan, where your investment firm is based? I live part of the time in Manhattan, part of the time in the Catskills, part of the time in the Adirondacks and part of the time on Long Island, in Bellport. 
 You have four houses in New York State? Yes. One of the joys of the upcoming campaign will be being able to use the Catskills and Adirondack mountain houses without having to go all the way back to Manhattan. 
 What do you make of your probable opponent for governor, Eliot Spitzer, the current state attorney general famous for his vehement pursuit of white-collar criminals? He has a very high profile, having extracted guilty pleas from a number of people. But taking cases to trial is the acid test for a prosecutor. There have not been a lot of trials. One major case that they took to trial, the Sihpol case, resulted in verdicts of not guilty on most counts.
 I think his goal is to scare guys on Wall Street into behaving, whether or not a trial ensues. And what is your goal? I do have a point of view. In the early 90's, I was chairman of the national Privatization Council, which privatizes hockey rinks, zoos, rental fleets at the airports, stuff that the state had no business being in the business of doing. 
 Why would you want to privatize zoos? What if the new owners tried to maximize profits by allowing visitors to hunt game on the premises? If your argument was followed to its conclusion, you would have no private education. Philosophically, I think the point is that the private sector in general can deliver services more effectively than the public sector.
 But surely I don't have to remind you that the private sector cannot be trusted to act in the interests of society as a whole, which is why government exists. What do you think is the purpose of government? It's to restrain people from injuring one another. That's Thomas Jefferson.
 Do you think the government succeeded in protecting people in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina? I think Katrina shows you that you have to plan for the absolute worst. At the federal level, you have to assume no help. 
 Are you saying our federal government has become totally useless? The economies of scale on a disaster the size of Katrina are such that the federal government is going to have to play a larger role. 
 So I'm not sure where you come down on federal assistance. If you were elected governor, would you ask the Department of Homeland Security to increase aid to New York City? 
 If I get in there, I probably want to have a talk with the feds about that. I am quite close to Mike Chertoff. It should be an easy conversation. 
 He recently upset many New Yorkers by insisting that protecting the subways from terrorism is a much lower priority for the federal government than protecting airplanes.
 Well, that's you talking. I don't know that. 
 I'm still not getting a clear sense of what you care about. I'll tell you one thing I think.
 Virtually any budget in the U.S. could probably stand to be cut by 10 percent or more. People get set in their ways and in their delivery systems, and they become inefficient. 
 It is true that Republicans have traditionally been antispending, but can we trust them in the future? The current administration has pushed us into unprecedented debt. Well, 49 out of 50 states have to have a balanced budget. There is only one that doesn't. And that's Vermont. 
 What does that have to do with the whopping debt incurred by the Bush administration? I am not running for president. I am running for governor. Deborah Solomon


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Platon)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); MOUNTAINS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CELEBRITIES (71%); GUILTY PLEAS (71%); VERDICTS (71%); TROPICAL STORMS (69%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (66%); ACQUITTAL (65%); ICE HOCKEY (64%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (63%); HURRICANE KATRINA (62%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (61%); HURRICANES (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



24 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 5; Travel Desk; DEALS & DISCOUNTS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 344 words

BYLINE: By PAMELA NOEL

 BODY:

'WICKED' IN CHICAGO -- The Hotel Allegro, in Chicago's Theater District, has been offering guests a convenient way to combine a trip to Chicago with a chance to see ''Wicked,'' the Tony award-winning play. The package price of $299 plus 15.4 percent tax combines a rate of $129 (normally $179) for a deluxe king room and the price of two orchestra level seats ($85 each) for Friday night shows through Jan. 13. Only 10 pairs of tickets are available each week. For more details call (312) 325-7211 or see www.allegrochicago.com.

QUEEN FOR A WEEKEND -- The three town houses that make up the luxury hotel 51 Buckingham Gate in London once did duty as guest houses for Queen Victoria. But from Nov. 18 through Dec. 18, a couple who books the Christmas Shopping weekend package can be modern-day guests for $440 a night (normally $598, at $1.84 to the pound), including V.A.T., breakfast and a butler to help with packing. Accommodations are in 12 deluxe junior suites. For details and other packages call (877) 528-2503 or see www.51-buckinghamgate.com.

OFF TO TAHITI -- Always wanted to visit Tahiti? Well you have until Oct. 10 to try reserving Air Tahiti Nui's special fare of $821 round trip (economy) from Kennedy Airport to Papeete, including taxes and fees. (The usual round-trip fare is $1,326.) The 12-hour nonstop flights depart on Monday, Thursday and Saturday. Dates to travel are Oct. 27 to Dec. 12 and Jan. 12 to March 30 and you must stay a minimum of three days. There are at least 50 seats at this fare on each flight, a spokeswoman said, but tickets went on sale Sept. 23. For details call (877) 824-4846 or see www.airtahitinui-usa.com. TRIPS TO EUROPE Travelers can save 20 to 35 percent with air-inclusive, four-night packages to Europe offered by TourCrafters. Among them are ''Hot Deals'' to Paris from New York or Philadelphia on Air France that start at $469 a person, double occupancy, from Nov. 1 to Dec. 15, and $492 from Jan. 3 to March 15. Breakfast and hotel taxes are included; call (800) 482-5995 or see www.tourcrafters.com. PAMELA NOEL

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TOUR PACKAGES (89%); THEATER (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); VALUE ADDED TAX (71%); AIR FARES (69%); AIRLINES (69%); CHRISTMAS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (52%)

TICKER: AF (PAR) (52%); AF (AMS) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) FRENCH POLYNESIA (92%); EUROPE (86%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



25 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; GOING TO; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1768 words

HEADLINE: Fort Lauderdale

BYLINE: By CHARLES PASSY

 BODY:

WHY GO NOW -- Fort Lauderdale is no longer the spring-break party spot it once was -- to the relief of most locals. But it has yet to fully emerge as the chic tropical destination -- a la Miami Beach, about 30 miles to the south -- that the tourist trade envisions. To visit the seaside (and canal lined) South Florida city, which attracted more than nine million tourists last year, is to see it at a curious crossroads in time. There are still traces of the Fort Lauderdale of yesteryear, including a few mom-and-pop motels near the beach and a couple of boisterous bars that appeal to revelers in their 20's. And, of course, there's the beach itself, which benefited greatly from a $26 million face-lift several years ago.
 But the fun-in-the-sun ambience is rapidly giving way to something more luxurious, as evidenced by new high-end hotels and resorts on or near the water. The 124-room Atlantic opened in 2004; the 166-room St. Regis Resort, 333-room Hilton Fort Lauderdale Beach and 346-room W Fort Lauderdale Hotel and Residences are scheduled to open in 2006. Add to the mix the city's growing reputation as a gay destination -- in nearby Wilton Manors, the gay population rivals that of many neighborhoods in New York and San Francisco -- and its prominence as a starting point for cruises, thanks to the increasingly busy Port Everglades. In addition, starting in December, the modest-size Fort Lauderdale Museum of Art will be host to ''Tutankhamen and the Golden Age of the Pharaohs,'' for four months. 

WHERE TO STAY -- The newest kid on the block -- or more specifically, the oceanside strip known rather prosaically as Fort Lauderdale Beach Boulevard -- is the Atlantic, 1 601 North Fort Lauderdale Beach Boulevard, (954) 567-8020, www.luxurycollection.com/atlantic. It's a sleek property with a bit of South Beach flavor. Rooms are studies in muted elegance and come with such amenities as minikitchens and a Bose CD Wave radio. The pool area on the fifth floor fronts the ocean. Even if you don't spend the night, the resort's restaurant, called Trina, offers perhaps the area's best waterfront breakfasts, such as lemon buttermilk pancakes with blueberry compote for $11. Room rates start at about $250.
If you want to be slightly away from the action, a better choice is the Lago Mar Resort and Club, 2 1700 South Ocean Lane, (954) 523-6511, www.lagomar.com, a 45-year-old, family-run property with a relaxed, somewhat upscale feel and 200-plus rooms -- from standard accommodations to a two-bedroom penthouse suite -- and a 600-foot stretch of private beach. Rooms range from $150 to $700 nightly.
 Many of the mom-and-pop motels near the beach have seen better days. But a couple of good options for smaller lodgings remain. On the plush side is the 22-room Pillars at New River Sound, 3 111 North Birch Road, (954) 467-9639, www.pillarshotel.com, which fronts the Intracoastal Waterway and is decorated in a British Colonial theme. Rates are $185 to $500 a night. On the funkier, more economical side is the 31-room Tropi Rock Resort, 4 2900 Belmar Street, (954) 564-0523, www.tropirock.com, where the rooms are decorated in a colorful, Caribbean-flavored style. Rates range from $66 to $178.

WHERE TO EAT -- What would you think if you were told that the hottest new restaurant in Fort Lauderdale is a product of the same company that owns the Olive Garden and Red Lobster chains? But though Seasons 52, 5 at the Galleria Mall, 2428 East Sunrise Boulevard, (954) 537-1052, is the brainchild of Darden Restaurants, it's no mere chain restaurant. It specializes in upscale, health-minded cuisine, with an emphasis on fresh ingredients and natural cooking methods; you'll smell the wood-burning grill when you arrive. No dish has more than 475 calories, but what dishes they are: pizza-style flatbreads for $6.75 to $8.95, cedar plank salmon ($16.50) and glazed turkey and Vidalia onion skewer ($13.95). Servers will let you try a sip of just about anything on the impressive wine list, and the dessert menu of ''Mini Indulgences'' ($1.95) features shot-glass-sized portions of such classics as Key lime pie and red velvet cake.
 If calories are less of an issue, make your way to Las Olas Boulevard, the city's upscale shopping strip, where you'll find several restaurants. Two of the finest -- Johnny V, 6 625 East Las Olas Boulevard, (954) 761-7920, www.johnnyvlasolas.com, and Mark's Las Olas, 7 1032 East Las Olas Boulevard, (954) 463-1000, www.chefmark.com -- are built around New American cuisine, which can have an anything-goes inventiveness. Johnny V (short for its proprietor, Johnny Vinczencz, a 10-year South Florida veteran) serves up such dishes as a corn-crusted yellowtail snapper with a smoked pepper relish and other accompaniments ($27) or a ''Duck, Duck, Duck'' platter of duck prepared three ways ($29). At Mark's Las Olas (Mark is Mark Militello, arguably the dean of South Florida chefs) a similar playfulness holds sway, as evidenced by the deservedly beloved Kit Kat chocolate dessert ($10) or the array of pizzas ($13 to $16) with toppings ranging from mango Scotch bonnet barbecue sauce to crispy pancetta wheels.
 And for simpler, greasy-spoon-style fare, head to a diner lost in time -- Lester's, 8 250 State Road 84, (954) 525-5641, a nearly 40-year-old institution that's famed for its 14-ounce cup of coffee, its breakfast platters (served all day) and, in true diner fashion, its revolving display case of cakes and cream pies. Omelets run from $4.69 to $8.49. 

WHAT TO DO DURING THE DAY -- To best understand Fort Lauderdale's reputation as the ''Venice of America,'' you need to get out on the water. Riverfront Cruises, 9 which departs from the Las Olas Riverfront complex, 300 Southwest First Avenue, (954) 463-3440, www.anticipation.com, offers leisurely hour-and-a-half tours for $14 that take in the sights, from Port Everglades to the mansions along the New River. And speaking of water, the Fort Lauderdale area is home to two halls of fame with distinctly aquatic themes. The Fishing Hall of Fame and Museum, 10 300 Gulf Stream Way, Dania Beach, (954) 922-4212, www.igfa.org, is an amusing outing even for the nonangler; exhibits cover everything from world-record catches to a Catch Gallery where you can try your hand at fishing, via a simulator, without having to bait your hook. Admission is $6. Next to the museum is the huge Bass Pro Shops' Outdoor World, 11 200 Gulf Stream Way (954) 929-7710, www.basspro.com, a haven for anglers, hunters and hikers -- or those who aspire to join their ranks. The International Swimming Hall of Fame museum, 12 1 Hall of Fame Drive, (954) 462-6536, www.ishof.org, is probably the only hall of fame where you can change into your bathing suit afterward -- the museum is adjacent to the Fort Lauderdale Aquatic Complex. Admission is $3.
 And don't forget about King Tut. The Fort Lauderdale Museum of Art, 13 1 East Las Olas Boulevard, (954) 525-5500, www.moafl.org will have the exhibit from Dec. 15 to April 23. Admission is $25 to $30.

WHAT TO DO AT NIGHT -- The city's newest major night-life destination is actually well outside Fort Lauderdale, but still worth a drive. It's the Seminole Hard Rock Hotel and Casino, 14 1 Seminole Way, Hollywood, (954) 327-7625, www.seminolehardrock.com, a complex that incorporates a hotel, casino and night-life district with several clubs. It's Las Vegas with all the bells and whistles. On a more highbrow note, there's the Broward Center for the Performing Arts, 15 201 SW Fifth Avenue, (954) 462-0222 or (954) 522--5334, www.browardcenter.org, Fort Lauderdale's answer to Lincoln Center. It's a two-theater center, with 590- and 2,700-seat halls, that offers a solid range of fare, from classical to ballet to pop. Thanks to new partnerships, the center will be running the nearby Parker Playhouse, where it will feature productions from Miami's Coconut Grove Playhouse.
 You can also head to one of the last vestiges of Fort Lauderdale's college-crowd era -- the Elbo Room, 16 241 South Fort Lauderdale Beach Boulevard, (954) 463-4615, www.elboroom.com, a no-frills beach hangout where the beer is always cold and the music plenty loud -- even at 11 in the morning.

WHERE TO SHOP -- Fort Lauderdale's answer to the Mall of America is Sawgrass Mills, 17 12801 West Sunrise Boulevard, (954) 846-2300, www.sawgrassmills.com, an outlet mall that's so big it has two food courts. But the real attraction is bargain shopping: Several prominent retailers and brands, like Saks Fifth Avenue, Ralph Lauren and Tommy Hilfiger, have outlet shops where outstanding deals can be found. The mall also has an outdoor dining and entertainment complex, with a few good chain restaurants, including Cheesecake Factory and Legal Sea Foods.
 If you prefer to shop on the street, there's always Las Olas, which has retailers galore. The more interesting bets are the independent stores: the Seldom Seen Gallery, 18 817 East Las Olas Boulevard, (954) 764-5590, www.seldomseengallery.com, is a lively emporium with everything from decorated sugar cubes to wind chimes to hand-painted furniture. And Lauderdale Lifestyle, 19 819 East Las Olas Boulevard, (954) 524-5459, www.lauderdalelifestyle.com, is one of the best spots in South Florida for Lilly Pulitzer resort wear. 

YOUR FIRST TIME OR YOUR 10TH -- There was a time when jai-alai, a centuries-old Basque game that resembles handball on steroids, was the spectator sport of choice for South Floridians. That era is long gone, but Dania Jai-Alai, 20 301 East Dania Beach Boulevard in Dania Beach, (954) 920-1511, the nation's second oldest fronton, or jai-alai court, survives -- albeit by a thread, judging from the sparse crowds on a recent Sunday. It's a pity because the game is exciting and fast-paced, and the fact you can bet on it adds to the adrenaline rush.

HOW TO GET THERE -- Several airlines (US Airways, Delta, American and Continental, among them) fly in and out of Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport, about five miles from downtown and seven miles from the beach. From New York, direct round-trip fares run as low as $132, provided tickets are purchased in advance.

GETTING AROUND -- If you're planning on sticking to the beach and downtown area, you may be able to get by on foot or via the city's water bus service ($5 for an all-day pass, $20 for a seven-day pass) and ground bus service ($1 a ride), but otherwise a rental car is essential. Taxis are available, but not easily hailed on the street. For travel to Miami and West Palm Beach, you can also use Tri-Rail, South Florida's commuter rail line.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Things to do by the sea: Sightseeing on the New River and the Fishing Hall of Fame and Museum by day
 the Seminole Hard Rock Hotel and Casino at night. The Museum of Art will be the next stop for the current King Tut exhibit. (Photographs by Scott Wiseman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); RESORTS (89%); BEACHES (77%); CRUISES (77%); GAYS & LESBIANS (74%); RESTAURANTS (74%); TOURISM (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



26 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: Sending Out a Message By Buying Back Shares

BYLINE: By AMY FELDMAN

 BODY:
BUYBACKS are back, and portfolio managers are taking notice. 
 Companies have been repurchasing their own shares at record levels, and the trend shows no sign of letting up. In the first half of this year, share buybacks reached $163 billion, according to Standard & Poor's, up 91 percent from the first six months of 2004. Howard Silverblatt, an equity market analyst at S.&P., estimates that they will surpass $300 billion for the year. That would be well above the $197 billion for all of 2004. 
Companies are splurging on their own shares for a simple reason: they have a lot of cash and need to do something with it. Companies in the S.&P. 500-stock index have cash equal to 7.3 percent of their market value -- slightly off the 7.7 percent peak reached earlier this year, which was the highest level since 1988. 
 That pile of cash accounts for not only the increase in stock buybacks, but also for rising dividend payouts and a higher level of activity in mergers and acquisitions. 
 ''Companies have more cash than they know what to do with,'' Mr. Silverblatt said. ''The number is just huge, especially in an environment where it is cheap to get money. So companies have plenty of money to do buybacks.''
 In general, buybacks are good for investors. After all, they represent a vote of confidence by management in the company's stock. And all things being equal, buybacks increase the earnings for each share by decreasing the number of shares held by investors. 
 David L. Ikenberry, a finance professor at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign who studies corporate buybacks, found that the stock price of companies that announced buybacks tended to outperform those that did not. 
 In an unpublished study of 7,725 announced corporate buybacks from 1980 to 2000, Mr. Ikenberry and three other researchers found that investors who held those stocks for four years earned a return that was 15.6 percentage points higher than that of a similar basket of stocks from companies that might or might not have announced repurchases. The results were consistent with a similar study published in the Journal of Financial Economics in October 1995 by Mr. Ikenberry and two other academics that focused on stock buybacks from 1980 to 1990. The study is at http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract--id=686567.
 ''It is a phenomenon that is fairly robust,'' Mr. Ikenberry said. ''Companies buy back stock for all kinds of reasons. The biggest one is a perception of mispricing. So these stock buybacks are considered signals that management is confident of where the stock prices should be headed.''
 Until legislation in 2003 cut the tax rate on qualified dividends to a maximum of 15 percent, there were tax advantages to share buybacks over dividend payouts. With the tax changes, however, dividend payouts -- which have also been rising -- and share buybacks have become more equal.
 ''A few years ago, we preferred stock buybacks over dividends because there used to be a tax rate difference,'' said Ronald H. Muhlenkamp, manager of the Muhlenkamp Fund, which was up 28 percent a year, on average, in the three years through Thursday. ''Today our preference is simply a matter of how high the stock is priced. If the stock is cheaply priced, we would prefer a buyback.''
 Mr. Muhlenkamp said the question to ask when looking at buybacks was whether the company could get a better return by buying back shares, paying a dividend or expanding its business. ''If they don't have projects that can maintain their return on equity,'' Mr. Muhlenkamp said, then the money should be paid to shareholders in a dividend or by repurchasing shares. 
 But not every buyback announcement is significant. Not all companies that say they will buy back shares actually do. And many buybacks -- particularly among technology companies -- are simply a way of offsetting the dilution that would otherwise accompany the exercise of stock options. ''So many companies are doing buybacks, but they may not all be doing meaningful buybacks in the sense that they are big enough to give the company a reduced share count,'' said David R. Fried, president of Fried Asset Management in Pacific Palisades, Calif., and editor of the online newsletter buybackletter.com.
 That said, more companies are doing meaningful buybacks these days and some in huge quantity. Consider Exxon Mobil, the world's largest energy company. As oil prices have soared, it has accumulated cash, and it has been sharply increasing its share repurchases, up to $5 billion in the third quarter from $3.7 billion in the second quarter. 
 S.&P. data shows that the number of companies that have reduced their outstanding shares by at least 0.5 percent has risen -- to 81 companies in the second quarter from 62 in the first quarter, and the moves have started to affect corporate earnings.
 AND the buyback announcements keep coming, sometimes from companies that have gone through tough times -- like Time Warner and Motorola. ''They've had some problems recently, and they're trying to do some signaling to the market,'' says Timothy Loughran, a finance professor at the University of Notre Dame. He compared current buybacks to the stock repurchases made after the stock market plunge in October 1987. ''It's been a pretty good signal,'' he said. ''And I think it is generally a positive signal for the market as a whole.''
 If you're interested in investing in companies that have had buybacks, Mr. Fried recommends looking at valuations as well as the size of the buyback programs. Among the stocks he likes are AutoZone, the auto parts retailer, trading at 12 times earnings; Intuit, the maker of Quicken software, trading at a multiple of 22; and Cigna, the insurer, at a multiple of 8. ''We look for situations where you've got the buybacks and the valuations,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Manhattan headquarters of Time Warner, which said it would buy back shares. Companies that make such announcements tend to outperform their peers. (Photo by Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg News)Chart: ''Reclaiming Ownership''With substantial cash on hand, companies are spending heavily to buy back their own stock.Graph tracks the aforementioned trend since 2001.(Source by Standard & Poor's)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); TRENDS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); DIVIDENDS (78%); MERGERS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); TAX RELIEF (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



27 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank: SEPTEMBER 26-30; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: A Strong Finale for the Third Quarter

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
The stock market rallied last week, closing the third quarter on an upbeat note, with all three major indexes posting substantial one-week gains.
 Investors managed to shrug off some worrisome data on Friday. The Commerce Department reported that personal income dropped 0.1 percent and consumer spending fell 0.5 percent in August. And the University of Michigan's consumer sentiment survey for August had the biggest monthly decline in 15 years, reflecting the impact of the two big hurricanes, Rita and Katrina. 
The market managed to rise anyway on Friday. For the quarter, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 3.2 percent, the best performance for the third period since 1997.
 Ciena, JDS Uniphase, Paychex and AES had the best weekly performances in the S.& P. 500.
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average gained 149.11 points, or 1.4 percent, to close at 10,568.70. The S.& P. 500 rose 13.52 points, or 1.1 percent, to close at 1,228.81. The Nasdaq composite index climbed 34.85 points, or 1.6 percent, to close at 2,151.69.
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note climbed to 4.32 percent from 4.24 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER

 FRIDAY'S CLOSE $33.89
WEEK'S CHANGE -5.83%
EST. '05 P/E 15.52

Audiovox
NNM: VOXX
The electronics company issued a warning that it would miss its third-quarter revenue outlook. The company said that it now expects to report a loss of 16 cents to 18 cents a share on sales of $123 million.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE $13.98
WEEK'S CHANGE -15.43%
EST. '05 P/E --

WellChoice
NYSE: WC
WellPoint, the nation's largest health insurer, with 28 million members, said that it had agreed to acquire WellChoice, the parent of Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield, for about $6.5 billion in cash and stock.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE $75.90
WEEK'S CHANGE +7.49%
EST. '05 P/E 22.26

Guidant
NYSE: GDT
Criminal investigators at the Food and Drug Administration have become involved in the agency's inquiry into how the company handled problems with its heart devices, said two people contacted by the investigators.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE $68.89
WEEK'S CHANGE -2.71%
EST. '05 P/E 27.80

E*Trade Financial
NYSE: ET
The discount brokerage firm said that it would acquire BrownCo, a division of J. P. Morgan Chase, for $1.6 billion in cash. BrownCo's customers are generally more affluent than E*Trade's.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE $17.60
WEEK'S CHANGE +7.32%
EST. '05 P/E 16.79

First Marblehead
NYSE: FMD
The student loan-services provider said its chairman and chief executive, Daniel M. Meyers, had resigned after saying that he had spent $32,000 of his own money on gifts for a former employee of a client.
 FRIDAY'S CLOSE $25.40
WEEK'S CHANGE -4.69%
EST. '05 P/E 8.46

Paychex
NNM: PAYX
The provider of payroll services said that its first quarter net income increased 31 percent from the year-earlier period. The company also issued a bullish forecast for future earnings.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE $37.09
WEEK'S CHANGE +12.46%
EST. '05 P/E 30.81

(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.IncyteNNM: INCYThe drug company said the federal government had asked it to conduct another trial for its H.I.V. drug Reverset to study the drug's safety for patients who have used other treatments.FRIDAY'S CLOSE $4.70WEEK'S CHANGE -35.17%EST. '05 P/E --TribuneNYSE: TRBShares of the media company fell sharply after it lost a federal tax court ruling which, the company said, could result in a federal tax payment of $1 billion. Tribune is appealing the ruling.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (73%); ELECTRONICS (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (72%); WEATHER (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (64%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (60%); HURRICANE KATRINA (55%); DISCOUNT BROKERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PAYCHEX INC (56%); JDS UNIPHASE CORP (56%); VOXX INTERNATIONAL CORP (54%); WELLPOINT INC (53%); ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (52%); EXACTTARGET INC (51%); E TRADE FINANCIAL CORP (51%); FIRST MARBLEHEAD CORP (50%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

TICKER: PAYX (NASDAQ) (56%); JDU (TSX) (56%); JDSU (NASDAQ) (56%); VOXX (NASDAQ) (54%); WLP (NYSE) (53%); ET (NYSE) (51%); ETFC (NASDAQ) (51%); FMD (NYSE) (50%); JPM (NYSE) (50%); JPM (LSE) (50%); 8634 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS561330 PROFESSIONAL EMPLOYER ORGANIZATIONS (56%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (56%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS423690 OTHER ELECTRONIC PARTS & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (54%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC5065 OTHER ELECTRONIC PARTS & EQUIPMENT (54%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (54%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (54%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (53%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (52%); NAICS541870 ADVERTISING MATERIAL DISTRIBUTION SERVICES (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); NAICS561499 ALL OTHER BUSINESS SUPPORT SERVICES (50%); NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (50%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (50%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (50%); SIC6163 LOAN BROKERS (50%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



28 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: The Problem With Great Expectations 

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a financial writer at U.S. News & World Report. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
TO the array of headwinds blustering at the markets, add one more: lofty expectations.
 Throughout much of this year, equity investors have had to endure a series of challenges, starting with rising interest rates, budding inflationary pressures and high energy prices. More recently, investors have had to gauge the potential fallout of not one but two major hurricanes.
Yet through it all, stocks have managed to climb their wall of worry -- or at least hang on -- because of a big boost from strong corporate earnings. Or, to put it more accurately, they've been able to advance, if ever so slightly, by posting solid profit growth that exceeded modest expectations. 
 At the start of the year, analysts were predicting a conservative gain of 7.6 percent in first-quarter earnings for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, versus the same period a year earlier. As it turned out, S.&P. profits jumped nearly 14 percent in the first three months of the year.
 In April, Wall Street analysts were expecting second-quarter earnings to grow 8.8 percent. Profits grew around 12 percent during the period.
 Yet the luxury of low earnings expectations appears to be a thing of the past -- and that puts equity prices at risk. In recent weeks -- even after Hurricane Katrina struck the Gulf Coast, wreaking havoc on New Orleans and its port -- analysts have been lifting their forecasts for third- and fourth-quarter profits.
 The consensus forecast for third-quarter profit growth now stands at 17.8 percent, up from 15.1 percent at the start of the quarter, according to Thomson Financial. Fourth-quarter estimates have also shot higher -- to 16.5 percent from 12.2 percent in July.
 The upward revisions in S.&P. earnings forecasts come as economists have been going in the opposite direction. Many have been reducing their forecasts for overall economic growth for the second half of this year, in the aftermath of Katrina.
 The rosy earnings outlook worries some people on Wall Street. ''I'm concerned that the numbers may be a bit too optimistic now,'' said Mary Ann C. Bartels, an equity trading strategist at Merrill Lynch. ''We now appear to be in a complete opposite situation from the first and second quarters,'' she said, when expectations were low and the ability to exceed them was good. 
 David Dreman, chairman of Dreman Value Management, an asset management firm in Jersey City, said: ''Honestly, I just don't see earnings rising that fast, partly because of the cost squeeze companies are in due to high energy prices. I don't see where it's coming from.'' 
 Well, a couple of answers come to mind. For one, analysts may simply be reacting to their misjudgments in previous quarters. ''Analysts have a tendency to miss profit trajectories on both sides, and I will tell you that going into the second quarter, analysts had lowered their forecasts only to be completely amazed by the level of actual profit growth,'' said Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank in Chicago. ''So given the fact that there were so many positive surprises last quarter, analysts may be trying to adjust their numbers higher.''
 Of course, a simpler explanation is that S.&P. earnings forecasts are rising because energy sector profits are expected to shoot through the roof. While higher oil and gasoline prices hurt consumers, as well as companies in a variety of industries, especially transportation, they are clearly a boon to energy-related businesses. 
 Indeed, at the start of the year, when a barrel of crude oil was trading in the low $40's, analysts were predicting that earnings among energy companies in the S.&P. would fall 7 percent in the third quarter, versus the period a year earlier. 
 By early July, when oil prices were hovering near $60 a barrel, third-quarter earnings in the energy sector were expected to jump 21 percent. Energy prices spiked in the aftermath of Katrina and as of Friday the consensus estimate had surged to 73 percent, according to Thomson Financial. 
 To be fair, it's not just energy that's growing, said Mike Thompson, director of research at Thomson Financial. ''The reality is, earnings remain strong and the impact of Katrina on S.&P. 500 profits doesn't look, at least initially, to be tremendous,'' he said. Mr. Thompson noted, for example, that if you stripped away the energy sector, earnings for the rest of the S.&P. 500 would still be expected to grow 11 percent in the third quarter -- higher than the historical growth rate. 
 Still, when the energy sector is subtracted, estimated earnings growth for the S.&P. 500 has been falling in recent weeks and months. At the start of January, for example, analysts were predicting that S.&P. 500 earnings, aside from those of the energy sector, would grow 15.3 percent for the third quarter. That forecast fell to 14.3 percent at the start of April, and now stands at 11 percent. By that measure, the profit outlook may not be so rosy after all.
 On top of all that, there are a couple of wild cards for investors to consider. For starters, how many companies will report negative earnings surprises in the third quarter, perhaps because of the devastation and disruptions caused by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita? 
 Even a marginal increase in negative surprises could disappoint the Street and hurt equity prices, money managers and investment strategists say. Ms. Bartels of Merrill Lynch noted that in the second quarter, nearly 70 percent of companies beat consensus estimates for earnings growth. If positive earnings surprises fell back to the historical average of 59 percent, that alone would disappoint the markets, she said.
 THE other unknown is how energy costs are affecting consumers. At the end of the day, consumers are responsible for roughly 60 percent of corporate profits, Mr. Thompson said. And while consumer confidence took a big hit after Katrina, it remains to be seen how consumers will change their spending -- if at all -- in response to the surge in gasoline prices.
 The big test may come later in the year, as winter approaches and households may also have to contend with high heating bills.
 Mr. Thompson is right: corporate profits, like consumers, have been surprisingly resilient. But the problem is that when expectations are this high, the margin for disappointment can be quite small. Yet the fallout of lower-than-expected profit growth can be big.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Despite the tremendous damage caused by Hurricane Katrina, Wall Street analysts have been increasing their forecasts for third- and fourth-quarter profit growth. (Photo by Bill Starling/Mobile Register, via Associated Press)Chart: ''Earnings Slowdown''Corporate earnings have generally been weaker over the last year -- especially if energy-sector profits are excluded.Graph tracks the S.& P. 500 earnings growth (over all and without energy companies) since the third quarter of 2003.(Source by Thomson Financial)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INFLATION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); HURRICANES (76%); WEATHER (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); INTEREST RATES (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: THOMSON FINANCIAL (66%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); DREMAN VALUE MANAGEMENT LP (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) SOUTHEAST USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



29 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Tallying Jobs Erased By Storms

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
AS the toll in lives and dollars from back-to-back hurricanes continues to climb, the first reckoning in terms of jobs will be presented on Friday, when the Bureau of Labor Statistics releases its employment report for September.
 Economists polled by Bloomberg News estimate that 169,000 jobs were lost last month, ending a string of 27 months of gains, including the 169,000 jobs that were added in August. The unemployment rate is predicted to rise to 5.1 percent from 4.9 percent. 
Russ Koesterich, senior portfolio manager at Barclays Global Investors in San Francisco, said the report would differ from the norm in another respect: the number of jobs created or lost is unlikely to matter to the stock market.
 ''It's going to be very skewed by the hurricanes,'' Mr. Koesterich said. ''It's going to be kind of a wild card, and the market's not going to read too much into it.''
 But one number in the report that he will be reading much into is the measure of hourly earnings. 
 ''The key to Federal Reserve policy,'' he said, ''is going to be the extent to which energy prices and some of the other inflation we see in commodities is making its way into wage inflation.'' 
 A month-to-month wage increase of 0.2 percent or less ''is a market-friendly number,'' in his opinion. ''It tells you the Fed may not have to be that aggressive,'' he said. An increase of 0.2 percent is predicted by the economists in the Bloomberg News poll.
 But if wages rose 0.3 or 0.4 percent last month, ''that's where you are going to see some sort of reaction,'' Mr. Koesterich said. ''It means that wages are picking up and that the Fed is going to have more work to do.''

DATA WATCH -- This week will have a bit of everything, beginning Monday with a look at vehicle sales in September. The Bloomberg News poll estimates that number at 16.1 million, which would be 700,000 less than the figure for August, when automakers' ''employee discount'' programs were in full force.
 Factory orders for August, due Tuesday, are forecast to show a gain of 2 percent after a decline of 1.9 percent in July.
 On Wednesday, the Institute of Supply Management will report on the state of the service economy in September. A steep decline, to 60 from 65, is predicted in the Bloomberg News poll. That would mean that the nonmanufacturing economy was still expanding -- any reading above 50 indicates that -- but that the pace was much reduced.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks non-farm payrolls (monthly change) since 2004.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); WEATHER (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HURRICANES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (65%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (60%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); AUTOMAKERS (50%); FACTORY ORDERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (61%); BLOOMBERG LP (58%); BARCLAYS GLOBAL INVESTORS NA (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



30 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Four Futures, All Without the Jetsons

BYLINE: By PAUL B. BROWN

 BODY:
THE old Canadian Pacific hotel chain used to run ads featuring its various properties, each in a fantastic location -- high in the mountains, in the heart of the city or at the water's edge. But while the pictures changed, the message remained the same: ''We were here first, so naturally we took the best locations.'' 
 That is exactly the appeal that books predicting the future have to executives. If they only knew what was about to happen, they could position themselves to grab the best spots, forcing competitors to play catch-up. 
The problem, of course, is that the future rarely unfolds as predicted. Remember all those flying cars, those robots doing housework, and those 24-hour work weeks we were promised we'd be enjoying by now?
 The authors of a number of books now arriving in stores have taken a different tack in predicting the future. When looking at the short term -- say, to the end of the decade -- they make very specific prognostications: there will be a shortage of skilled workers, and there will be a huge opportunity in marketing to the least wealthy of the world.
 For the longer term, the authors aren't as specific. They predict trends and suggest new ways to view an uncertain future.
 Edward E. Gordon, president of the Imperial Consulting Corporation, focuses on the short term, and on only one part of it at that: the job market. His book's title explains clearly where he thinks we are heading: ''The 2010 Meltdown'' (Praeger, $39.95).
 ''By 2010, an unprecedented number of baby boomers will begin retiring in the United States, Europe and Japan,'' he writes. ''The global, bottom-line demographic problem is that too many skilled people are dropping out of the world economy at the same time.''
 That problem is twofold, he says: The generation just after the baby boomers has fewer people -- 10 million fewer in the United States alone. And those people simply don't have the skills needed to fill the void.
 This is not a new insight. Both academics and business leaders have talked about this issue for at least a decade, but the corporate solution, Mr. Gordon argues, has been misguided. ''American business has been in denial about long-term work force development,'' he writes, ''and instead has fixated on short-term profit strategies such as global repositioning, outsourcing and importing temporary workers.''
 Among his solutions is more emphasis on training and education from nongovernmental entities, whether schools, unions, chambers of commerce or corporations.
 The payoff will be well worth the effort, he writes. Accenture Consulting did an exhaustive study to find out the return it got for training employees. ''For every dollar invested in training,'' he writes, ''there was a return of $3.53.''
 Vijay Mahajan, a professor at the University of Texas business school, and Kamini Banga, managing director of Dimensions Consultancy, also focus on the short term -- and on what they say could be the next big battleground: providing goods and services to the 86 percent of the world's population living in countries where the average annual income is less than $10,000.
 Their logic, presented in ''The 86 Percent Solution'' (Wharton School Publishing, $26.99), goes like this: Companies traditionally fight over the most lucrative 14 percent of the world's market; that makes sense because that's where the money is. But if everyone aims at the same market, revenue and earnings are hard to come by.
 More important, the authors say, quick development of poorer markets ''has made these areas the lands of new opportunity.''
 They concede that focusing on these countries, which often have little in the way of infrastructure or history of mass-market consumerism, will require ''different market strategies to realize these opportunities.'' But doing so will solve a main problem for large companies today: sustaining growth.
 When it comes to the longer term, knowing how to evaluate all the incoming information is more important than predicting a trend, say Edie Weiner and Arnold Brown in ''Future Think'' (Prentice Hall, $24.99).
 This is the most entertaining, and potentially most beneficial, of the books now coming to market because the authors spend their entire time trying to teach ways to process data differently. For example, Ms. Weiner, president of the Weiner Edrich Brown consulting firm in New York, and Mr. Brown, the firm's chairman, suggest that you try to view the world as an alien would.
 If you did, you'd ask why clothing stores stack items with the largest sizes at the bottom, making it harder for shorter people to find what they need. And if most people prefer to buy apparel at a store, where they can try on the items, why are dressing rooms so small and inconveniently placed?
 Ms. Weiner and Mr. Brown say that ''seeming contradictions make seeing the future difficult'' -- and that is exactly where Eamonn Kelly, the chief executive of the Global Business Network, focuses his arguments.
 He spends the bulk of his book, ''Powerful Times'' (Wharton School Publishing, $26.99), discussing what he sees as seven ''dynamic tensions'' that will form in coming years. These are basically contradictory trends within the same theme.
 He writes, for example: ''Our world will grow more transparent. Our ability to collect, integrate, interpret and distribute data will increase exponentially.''
 But all of that data means that people will be able to use bits and pieces to build whatever hypotheses they like. As a result, he says, a ''growing abundance of conspiracy theories and falsehoods will travel the world instantaneously'' and ''the very tools of connectivity that will enable so much transparency will also serve to enable more sophisticated means of theft and fraud.''
 Similarly, he writes, ''we will witness further advances in computing, biotechnology and nanotechnology,'' and ''not surprisingly, we will see this 'progress' increasingly challenged by those who fear its ultimate and perhaps unintended consequences.''
 Like Ms. Weiner and Mr. Brown, Mr. Kelly offers a variety of ways that this may play out, but his ultimate goal is to prepare executives to deal with all the uncertainty, not to predict a specific future.
 Suggesting new ways to think about long-term trends, as opposed to trying to predict a specific future, makes sense. But it does make you long for the days of predictions about flying cars. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (87%); BABY BOOMERS (87%); WRITERS (76%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (75%); LABOR FORCE (73%); HOTEL CHAINS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (71%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (71%); OUTSOURCING (71%); WORK WEEK (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); LABOR SHORTAGES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ACCENTURE PLC (54%)

TICKER: ACN (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



31 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 5; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: Wrapped in an Enigma, Hidden In a Film Archive

BYLINE: By PAUL CULLUM

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
IF the filmmaker J.X. Williams didn't exist, someone would have had to invent him. And if someone had, it would have been done in one of the darker corners of contemporary cinema: the world of ''found footage.''
 An exploitation filmmaker with a storied past, Williams is credited as director of the 1965 documentary ''Peep Show'' -- a kind of spiritual vortex of sub rosa Americana surrounding the Kennedy assassination. After supposedly being suppressed for decades, it was recently shown at the Anthology Film Archives in New York, the Film Forum in Los Angeles and a handful of other museum, gallery and festival settings throughout the United States and Europe. (It is expected to be screened at the Lausanne Underground Film Festival in October.) 
Shot in stark black-and-white and augmented with copious archival film, ''Peep Show'' tells a tangled tale of a rigged 1960 election, secret C.I.A. training camps in the Florida outback, sex stings in Mafia hotels and a little-known Mob plot to addict Frank Sinatra to heroin. 
 But film connoisseurs will instantly recognize much of the documentary's ''historical'' source material: Sinatra's struggles with heroin are clearly excerpts from ''The Man With the Golden Arm'' (1955). A New York skyline is an exterior from John Cassavetes's first film ''Shadows'' (1959). Images of Chicago and a voice-over are lifted from an obscure police thriller titled ''City That Never Sleeps'' (1953). And a taxicab blowing up is actually the explosion that breaks the seven-minute tracking shot at the start of Orson Welles's ''Touch of Evil'' (1958).
 Noel Lawrence, who offers his title as curator of the J.X. Williams Archive in San Francisco, has an explanation: ''Williams gets to Copenhagen in 1965, where he became a projectionist at a rep house, and he just started clipping things to make into a film. He just thought, 'I can get away with this.''' 
 An unassuming presence in his mid-30's with an engaging manner and a disarming stream of patter, Mr. Lawrence conducts a live PowerPoint presentation in conjunction with the films (documented at www.jxarchive.org) and serves as a kind of one-man advocate for Williams. According to Mr. Lawrence's spiel, Williams's resume reads as a RKO mail-room flunky, closet Communist, abortive House Un-American Activities Committee witness, Mafia gofer, pioneer of mobbed-up stag loops, ghostwriter of some of the blacklist era's greatest films and incidental avatar of experimental cinema. Williams, as the story goes, has spent the last quarter-century in Zurich in self-imposed exile, leaving Mr. Lawrence to serve as a Robert Maheu figure to his shadowy late-stage Howard Hughes.
 A self-described ''lapsed academic,'' Mr. Lawrence left Stanford in the mid-90's and met Craig Baldwin, host of the Other Cinema (a longstanding experimental film house in the Mission District in San Francisco) and doyen of the Bay Area's postpunk filmmaking scene. Mr. Baldwin is also one of the chief proponents of found-footage filmmaking, a method of assemblage and appropriation that often walks a fine line when it comes to matters of copyright infringement. 
 Along with the marketing analyst Glenn Springer and the archivist Steven Parr, they formed the Other Cinema DVD label, which was the first to release Bill Morrison's landmark assemblage opus ''Decasia.'' As Mr. Lawrence explains it, he stumbled across a stray Williams print on eBay and descended Dante-like into the netherworld of rarefied cinema collectors. 
 Andy Lampert, curator of the Anthology Film Archives, said he had been skeptical about the screening that took place last April with Mr. Lawrence's running commentary. ''I thought it would be a disaster,'' he said in a recent interview, ''because I know Noel, and I thought, 'How could Noel sell anybody anything?' But before my eyes, he was transformed into the world's greatest huckster. He was like a trapeze artist without a net.''
 ''Noel's film sets itself up as evidence,'' Mr. Lamper said, ''but in a completely hypothetical realm, and audiences are now processing it with a knowing wink.'' 
 Still, a show at the Film Forum in Los Angeles in December 2004 met with a decidedly more hostile reception. Several angry questions were launched from the crowd and a spate of angry letters followed from attendees claiming they had been duped, though at least one audience member -- Berenice Reynaud, head of programming at the Roy and Edna Disney Cal Arts Theater, an adjunct of Disney Hall -- rose to defend the film. Ms. Reynaud is somewhat cagey about whether she took the presentation at face value, but she did send out a rallying cry via e-mail the next day to the Film Forum board, of which she is a member, claiming, ''In this day and age, when even the once most subversive artists are selling their signature as auteur to turn a larger profit within the market economy, I find it oh so refreshing that a hoax may (yes, may) have been played on us.''
 No less a film dignitary than Orson Welles, long after his own run-in with unflinching authority, European exile and velvet decline, raised many of these same issues in his last film, ''F for Fake.'' And there really was a J.X. Williams, more or less: Roughly 100 gay sex pulp novels were published under that byline throughout the 50's and 60's, since attributed to authors like Andrew Offutt, John Jakes, George H. Smith and -- accidentally confirmed on a title page -- the famed grade-Z auteur Ed Wood. 
 But might the inclination to dismiss Williams as mere postgraduate high jinks be just one more rush to judgment? Could such a gaping hole exist in the official record?
 ''Absolutely,'' says Dan Streible, founder of the Orphan Film Conference, dedicated to the preservation of educational films, industrials and other film ephemera, now under the auspices of the cinema studies program at New York University. ''N.Y.U. students just last week found a newsreel made at the height of the Spanish Civil War that was thought to have been lost. The Smithsonian recently discovered in its archive a copy of a 1911 western called 'Life on the Border' starring Tom Mix as an Indian chief. As far as lost filmmakers, there's the Sid Laverents case, who worked alone in obscurity and was discovered by archivists, and whose 'Multiple Sidosis' was selected by the National Film Registry of the Library of Congress.''
 ''I hope the truth will come out,'' Mr. Lawrence said. Toward that end, he is working on a documentary on the life and times of J.X. Williams, to be titled ''The Big Footnote,'' as well as restoration of the more than 20 titles attributed to Williams. He plays down copyright issues that arise in such work, saying he plans to screen the films only in museums or festivals. And when pushed on any contradiction in the canon, he defaults to a defense of Williams as perhaps the first postmodernist. 
 ''I think what J.X. was trying to do in certain ways -- and maybe this part was prescient,'' he said, ''was to present a film that was a parody of conspiracy theory. But then, he's not a real open guy.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 9, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the underground film ''Peep Show'' referred imprecisely to the affiliation of a symposium on orphan, or nonmainstream, films whose founder was quoted. While New York University participates in the Orphan Film Conference and is expected to become its host in the future, the March 2006 event will be at the University of South Carolina. The article also misstated the length of the opening tracking shot in Orson Welles's ''Touch of Evil,'' which precedes a shot of a car blowing up that was appropriated for ''Peep Show.'' It is about 3 minutes 20 seconds, not 7 minutes.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Near right, a scene from ''Peep Show'' (1965), written and directed by J.X. Williams. Far right, the poster for ''Peep Show.'' (Photographs courtesey of J.X. Williams Archive)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (90%); FILM HISTORY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); FESTIVALS (74%); HEROIN (71%) Motion Pictures

PERSON: Paul Cullum; Jay X Williams; Noel Lawrence

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



32 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL/Maserati Quattroporte; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1600 words

HEADLINE: Ciao, Bella: An Italian Opera in Four Doors

BYLINE: By TED WEST

DATELINE: Englewood Cliffs, N.J. 

 BODY:
THEY took back my Maserati today. No, worse. They made me drive it to Maserati North America in New Jersey and surrender it. That wasn't easy.
 In no more time than it takes to floss a healthy adult bear, my Maserati and I had become a couple. We shared matters of temperament and taste. We were intrigued by each other's personality, spontaneity, impetuousness -- in computer-dating terms, we had ample cause to form a relationship.
I have a weakness for things Italian, and my Maserati Quattroporte -- all right, it was a test car in my possession for just a week -- was so Italian, it communicated with its hands. 
 In these homogenous automotive times, the ethnic motorcar has become seriously blurred. For German precision and reliability, we buy Japanese; for Japanese thrift at the cost of style, we buy from Detroit; and for Detroit pizazz and over-the-top performance, we go to the Germans. 
 Yet cars from Italy somehow remain defiantly Italian, in all their Verdian grandiosity. My Quattroporte (it means four doors) was proof.
 Why ''my'' Maserati? 
 When we met, it looked me straight in the eye and, in a rich Bolognese accent, said: ''My friend, if we are to get along, you must first learn some things about me. And if you do, I will make you feel stupendo!'' 
 I'd been through this vetting process before. I remember sitting at a table in Perugia long ago trying to coil tagliatelle around my fork -- no loose strands -- without resorting to the silly soup spoon supplied for foreigners. The first time I succeeded, ah, signore, bravo! 
 How does the tagliatelle test apply to a Maserati Quattroporte? 
 Well, consider my experience in learning to use the six-speed DuoSelect transmission. Reflecting Formula One racing-car technology (sort of), it employs nothing so mundane as a shift lever or clutch pedal. Instead, two paddles are situated behind the steering wheel, one on each side. Pull the right paddle and you shift up a gear; pull the left paddle and you shift down. Leave them alone and DuoSelect shifts automatically, like your son's ratty Oldsmobile. 
 The good news: getting used to these paddles is intuitive. But remember I said that the Quattroporte has personality, to wit: operated in full automatic, DuoSelect will effortlessly guide you through the indignities of rush-hour stop and go. But dare to use the shift paddles and presto, you are deep in the complexities of la bella Italia. 
 What does that mean? Here is what it does not mean: If DuoSelect were German, operating a paddle would initiate 200,000 earnest binary calculations, after which the transmission would give you a patronizing nod and do what it was planning to do anyway. But if you flip the paddle on the Maser, it does just what you ask. So ask carefully. 
 On my first few tries, DuoSelect shifted like a bag of broken glass. Upshifting and downshifting to keep pace with the roller-derby of traffic outside the windshield, I got an assortment of surging, bucking shifts -- tuh-thunk, tuh-thunk. This was upsetting, because the Quattroporte has the heart of a lion. Its 4.2-liter V-8 makes 395 horsepower and 326 pound-feet of torque, and the car rages to 60 miles an hour in 5.1 seconds. The government reckons fuel economy at a profligate 16 m.p.g. on the highway and 11 in town, accounting for a gas-guzzler tax of $3,700. And with the front engine set far back in the chassis and the transmission on the rear axle, the car has excellent weight distribution: 48 percent in front and 52 in the rear. The Quattroporte never met a curve it wouldn't romance. 
 Surely, then, such Italianate elegance should shift elegantly, too. It would be easy to say, naw, the thing's no good. Yet having long ago passed the tagliatelle test -- no loose strands! -- I knew that in matters Italian, some technique may be required. And the Maserati people had told me I would find some ''tricks'' driving this car, which sounded gratuitous at the time.
 But after a day or two of tuh-thunk, tuh-thunk, I knew that the DuoSelect was a bit sluggish about matching engine speed with wheel speed as it shifted, accounting for the bucking and surging. I experimented by giving the throttle a crisp blip while downshifting, as you would with a manual gearbox. 
 Hey, smooth!
 I even tried blipping the throttle while upshifting, which is illogical on its face. The engine shouldn't need to speed up when meeting a higher gear. But, hey, this is an Italian car. Sure enough, the shift was glass-smooth, and quick, too. 
 I continued to find finer and finer throttle-blipping subtleties at various engine speeds, and the Maserati came alive -- athletic, agile, ready to dance on the head of a pin. All it asked of me was some touch and a little technique. Shifting became like driving the pedals of a pipe organ. I was playing the DuoSelect as if it were Puccini. 
 As promised, I felt wonderful. My Maserati wasn't a lovely diva with halitosis, but a lady of grace and wit -- and she found me fascinating!
 The Quattroporte's comforts were never in doubt. Designed for captains of industry who may also play polo, such a car decrees that rich is good but handsome is better. Its interior is straightforward, exquisite and blessedly simple. The combined audio and navigation system affirms that at Maserati, the goal is not a 500-page driver's manual but undistracted driving pleasure. You set the climate control with one or two jabs -- revolutionary by the computer-blighted standards of today's luxury cars. And here at last is an Italian air-conditioner that overcomes the ugliest meltdowns of a New York summer.
 Placed between the large, handsome, blue speedometer and tachometer, an information display tabulates gas mileage, average speed, fuel range and such. Steering-wheel controls regulate the stereo and the phone. (If you require a steering-wheel button that fluffs the pillows in your master bedroom or lowers the spinnaker on your sloop, Cadillac is working on it.)
 The steering column tilts and telescopes to your needs, and the girth and grip of the wheel remind you that driving can feel good. Where the gearshift used to be, a tiny T handle grants access to reverse gear. 
 The seats in my Maserati (I'm not giving up without a fight) were black leather with handsome gray piping. And because this is the kind of car meant for the kind of people who are meant for this kind of car (if you see my point), all four seats are power adjustable. 
 This is important. If your Quattroporte is to be chauffeur-driven, while you sit in the loges running the world, the rear seats are downright baronial. Call it the boardroom and be done with it. After adjusting your own seat (to arrive slightly higher than your lawyer's, to your left), you may then push what I call the ejection button. This wizard device slides the right-front seat forward, affording il patrone -- you -- the almost limitless legroom you so richly deserve. The front seats are for salaried staff anyway. Let them bump their knees. 
 For privacy, there is an electric deep-dark rear-window shade. Your lawyer will think that's so cool.
 But this car is about more than sumptuousness: learning to use its DuoSelect is central to grasping its personality. This is above all a driver's car, one with which you must come to an ''accommodation.'' 
 It put me in mind of a time long ago when I was hitchhiking in the Italian Alps, a fool's errand if ever there was one. I'd waited hours for a ride before, finally, a sleek Alfa Romeo Giulietta Sprint coupe stopped. The driver and his teenage son had the front seats, so I rolled up in a ball in the back -- but after the long wait, I wasn't complaining. The driver was a classic northern Italian: tanned, with gray sidewalls, wearing flawless tailored tweed. Audrey Hepburn would've looked him over, twice. 
 He accelerated down the veering and swooping Alpine two-lane at full throttle, tires shrieking through every curve. We were flying. But it wasn't the driver's speed that intrigued me -- it was his skilled, utter calm. The definitive Italian gentleman driver, he knew what he was doing every millimeter of the way. 
 My point? Today, he would drive a Quattroporte DuoSelect -- fast and flawlessly and without a tuh-thunk.
 Great Italian cars aren't for everyone, and not simply because this one costs $106,850. Financials aside, the Quattroporte is out of reach to many on philosophical grounds. A performance car that takes your measure, it expects skills possessed by people who care passionately about driving, and it rewards these skills with more involvement, more pure automotive character, than anything this side of a racecar. 
 But what of its idiosyncrasies, you ask. What of them? The ticks and oddities of great Italian cars endear them to their drivers. DuoSelect's manual mode not only gives you better control over engine speed and wheel speed than fully automatic shifting, you're also invited to practice a satisfying new technique. 
 The Quattroporte competes against six-figure megasedans like the Mercedes-Benz S600 and BMW 760Li. Maserati is selling some 1,000 of the cars annually in the United States, with another 1,000 finding buyers elsewhere in the world. 
 Two new versions of the car arrive for 2006, a more aggressive Sport GT and a more cushy Executive GT. 
 The Quattroporte beckons to those stalwart few who believe a car should have a soul. Such drivers love a car whose individuality is unmistakable. After all, the greatest human personalities are shot through with idiosyncrasies. Why not a great performance car?

INSIDE TRACK: Now that's Italian!


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Maserati Quattroporte is stylish but straightforward, without the fussy computer controls now common in luxury cars. (pg. 1)
 The front engine is set far back, providing excellent weight distribution. (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS CARS (89%); FORMULA ONE RACING (78%) Automobiles; Tests and Testing

ORGANIZATION: Fiat Spa; Ferrari Maserati North America

PERSON: Ted West

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (88%) NORTH AMERICA (90%); UNITED STATES (88%); ITALY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



33 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; NEW YORK BOOKSHELF/NONFICTION; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 576 words

BYLINE: By N.R. Kleinfield. 
N.R. Kleinfield is a reporter for The New York Times. ''His Oldest Friend'' grew out of an article he wrote for The Times.

 BODY:

A WIDOW'S WALK: A Memoir of 9/11
By Marian Fontana
Simon & Schuster
($24, hardcover)
 Theresa and I walk into the Blue Ribbon, an expensive, trendy restaurant on Fifth Avenue in Park Slope. 
 We sit at a banquette in the middle of the room and read the eclectic menu, my eyes instinctively scanning the prices for the least expensive item.
''I'm getting the steak,'' Theresa decides, slamming her menu closed. ''That sounds good. Thirty dollars! Damn.''
 ''Get it.''
 ''It should come with a man for that price,'' I joke.
 ''Stop it! Order whatever you want. We've cried enough for this money.''
 But it feels strange. I never ordered what I wanted, only what Dave and I could afford. ''A dollar a tear,'' I murmur, closing the menu.
 ''You and I are so different,'' she says, and I nod at the odd circumstance of our friendship. ''I've always had money. In my first relationship, all we did was work, and I had everything: a big house, cars, pool. You name it.''
 ''What happened to him?''
 ''Nothing! He was a great guy, don't get me wrong. He was a sweetheart. We're still great friends, but it wasn't enough. I really wasn't happy and then I met Mike and we had so much fun. We laughed, we traveled, played golf. It was great. We didn't need all that stuff 'cause we were having such a good time just living, you know?''
 ''No actually, Dave and I never had money.''

HIS OLDEST FRIEND: The Story of an Unlikely Bond
By Sonny Kleinfield
Times Books
($24, hardcover)
 The Jewish Home & Hospital had a good reputation. It was a sprawling tidy white brick building, actually several buildings united over the years, on Manhattan's Upper West Side, on West 106th Street, between Columbus and Amsterdam Avenues. It stood on one of those numbered streets that also bore an honorific name, in this case Duke Ellington Boulevard. 
 It was a wide street, a residential street, with a steady swish of traffic, food places squatting on the corners. The nursing home's transportation vans were usually parked outside. During the height of the terrorist alerts in the city, when people watched their backs, the ''Jewish'' name was painted over so thehome wouldn't be so inviting a target. 
 The place was inhabited by a great range of residents, the majority of them trapped in some stage of dementia, the rich and the poor, the accomplished and the thwarted, all equalized by age and its heavy toll. Inside, it had an old-fashioned look.
 Certainly the place had its fill of immutable rules and not always accommodating aides, but there were rarely the persistent repugnant odors or the seedy bedragglement evident in the rooms of so many nursing homes.

DIARY OF A DRAG QUEEN
By Daniel Harris
Carroll & Graf
($14.95, paperback)
 Let's take my most recent trick. He was a young man, in a do-rag and impossibly low-slung jeans, around 20 or 21 at the oldest, from the projects down the street, thin as a rail, the kind of thinness that makes you think that one of his mother's many economies was her grocery bill. He showed no shame about living in one of the most notorious public-housing complexes in the city and mentioned it almost as if it were a tony address, a gated community with the amenities of a beautifully landscaped park just across the street and convenient access to downtown shopping. 
 In this regard, he was admirably self-possessed, unlike other men I have met from the complex who, when I asked them where they lived, simply gestured vaguely in that direction.


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (77%); TERRORISM (73%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (66%); DEMENTIA (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



34 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: At CUNY, Giving Workers A Leg Up

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

 BODY:
LOUIS-JEAN WESNER, Neville Williams and Warkah Scott hunched over a small circuit board at the New York City College of Technology in downtown Brooklyn and practiced measuring changes in the voltage and current.
 All three work in the subway system, for New York City Transit. Mr. Wesner, a signal maintenance helper, wants to advance to a morechallenging job. Mr. Williams, acar inspector, and Mr. Scott, who maintains emergency phones and alarms, both hope to meet the new demands of their jobs as trains and signals become increasingly computerized. 
''I want to keep from being obsolete,'' Mr. Williams said one evening last month, adding that his class in circuit analysis is the first step in a program that will also teach him the intricacies of computer systems.
 The three transit employees are among more than 100,000 people attending classes at the City University of New York this year as part of a universe of programs providing job training and work skills improvement. 
 Financed by more than $100 million a year in grants and contracts from government agencies, private businesses, labor unions and foundations, the programs make CUNY a major player in work force development in the city. 
 The students include employees of the agencies and businesses, union members and welfare recipients trying to move into the ranks of the employed.
 Participants in the programs, which usually do not lead toward degrees, make up about a quarter of the 500,000 people registered at the university system's 11 four-year colleges, six community colleges and three graduate and professional schools across the five boroughs. That figure includes about 150,000 students enrolled in traditional adult education courses, which, of course, many use to advance their job skills as well. It also includes the nearly 225,000 students who are in degree-granting programs. 
 THE grant and contract programs address a wide array of needs, including preparing welfare recipients for entry-level jobs and helping employees at places like Verizon Communications and New York City Transit keep up with advancing technology. 
 While such programs have been operated by the individual colleges for years -- the College of Technology, for example, has had a business and industry training center since 1985 -- the scope and reach of the programs have changed in recent years, CUNY's chancellor, Matthew Goldstein, said last week. ''Work force training is now a universitywide priority,'' he said.
 Indeed, the university's central administration has also become increasingly involved in developing and running job-related programs.
 The increased emphasis is reflected in the growth of the grant and contract programs. Their enrollments rose 91 percent, to nearly 110,000, from the 1999-2000 academic year to the 2003-4 year, the latest for which such numbers are available, according to CUNY. 
 Registration in all continuing-education programs -- a category that includes the work force training and adult education offerings -- rose 37 percent over the same period, the university said. 
 A CUNY spokesman, Michael Arena, said, ''The future trend will continue to show that the work force development component of continuing education will keep growing.''
 He cited, among other things, the expected expansion of the two-year-old School of Professional Studies, whose offerings are intended to include programs developed to the specifications of individual employers and industry groups. 
 The school's dean, John Mogulescu, who is also the senior university dean for academic affairs, said the school was in ''serious negotiations with a number of public and private entities that would enable us to provide training for their workers.'' The school is based at CUNY's graduate center in Midtown, but its classes are also held at other CUNY campuses and at non-CUNY sites.
 The school's current programs include a four-course series, developed with the United Federation of Teachers, the local teachers' union, that is intended to prepare teachers to carry out the new systemwide literacy curriculum that the city has introduced in its public schools.
 Aside from the School of Professional Studies, CUNY's central administration also runs programs that include courses on technical and administrative subjects for employees of the city's Human Resources Administration, 6,000 of whom attend annually. 
 Over the years, various CUNY colleges have provided employee training for businesses and private organizations that include the AT&T Corporation, Verizon, Independence Savings Bank, Bear Stearns, J.P. Morgan Chase & Company and Montefiore and Mount Sinai Medical Centers.
 Work force training programs have expanded on campuses across the country in recent years, as more colleges and universities have found them to be revenue producers and a way of contributing to their communities. But the increase at CUNY has been especially sharp, according to a report last year by the Center for an Urban Future, a nonprofit group that examines economic development issues in the city. ''Individual government agencies see CUNY as a significant work force resource, and corporate clients have begun to follow,'' the report said. 
 But it also said the university's full potential as such a resource remained ''largely unrealized.'' Among the reasons, it said, is that the programs ''tend to operate in isolation from one another,'' and that many tenured faculty members think that such programs are not too academically rigorous and rely too much on part-time adjunct faculty.
 Indeed, the head of the union that represents CUNY faculty and staff members said in an interview that while work force programs at the individual colleges were generally based in academic departments, making the programs stronger, programs conceived by CUNY's central administration, like the School of Professional Studies, rely too heavily on adjuncts.
 This leads to ''all kinds of problems involving academic integrity,'' said Barbara Bowen, president of the union, called the Professional Staff Congress.
 Mr. Mogulescu, the CUNY dean, said courses at the School of Professional Studies were taught by regular faculty from the various colleges and from ''people who develop the courses and are experts related to the field.'' He disagreed with the isolation charge, saying, ''I think there's very good coordination.''
 Meanwhile, at the College of Technology, Mr. Wesner, Mr. Williams and Mr. Scott were beginning the first of three courses they would take over three semesters. 
 The courses, which students usually attend twice a week on their own time, are paid for by a fund established by New York City Transit and Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union, said Yelena Melikian, director of the college's business and industry training center. Mr. Wesner, 46, said the program was important to him because being a signal maintenance helper was beneath his potential. 
 ''I take out a switch, I check a contact and sometimes I'm flagging,'' he said of the assignment of looking out for coming trains. 
 Despite having a bachelor's degree in engineering, he has been unable to get an engineering job at New York City Transit in his eight years there, he said, and completing the program in telecommunication technology could enhance his credentials for the career he has not given up on.
 ''My goal is still to be in engineering,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (89%); CIRCUIT BOARDS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



35 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: Midcareer Disabilities Force Workers to Retool 

BYLINE: By TANYA MOHN

 BODY:
MARC LEFFLER was a successful oral surgeon in his mid-30's when he began to experience progressive weakness in his dominant hand, accompanied by wrist and hand pain. The condition worsened with time, and treatment was not effective. When Dr. Leffler realized that his ability to perform surgery would eventually be affected, he knew a career switch was inevitable. He slowly began to phase out his practice while he attended law school part time. 
 Today, Dr. Leffler, now 48 and a resident of Pomona, N.Y., is a trial lawyer focusing on medical and dental malpractice and personal injury.
While no disabilities are easy, adult disabilities that did not exist when career choices were made present special challenges. 
 ''It has the potential to throw life into an upheaval,'' said Steve Nissen, director of employment programs at the Washington area chapter of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, and an employment consultant to the society's national office in New York.
 Unlike Dr. Leffler, many people with late-onset disabilities -- unable to work at the jobs they were trained for -- do not have the resources to plan a career switch. Such transitions often require retraining, difficult to do once the financial responsibilities of family and home come into play.
 Mr. Nissen helped to develop Career Crossroads: Employment and MS, a workshop meant to help people with disabilities stay at their current jobs. It is applicable to anyone with a chronic illness or a disability. 
 The program, carried out in chapters nationwide, covers an array of issues, like handling disclosure to employers, obtaining workplace accommodations and maintaining health insurance during a job change. It provides information about the Americans With Disabilities Act and other legislation. 
 ''The bottom line is, the A.D.A. does not guarantee a job,'' Mr. Nissen said, explaining that the law states that an employee must be able to do the essential functions of the job, with or without the use of a reasonable accommodation. 
 Karen K. Jackson, who was counseled by Mr. Nissen during her career switch and appears in the DVD and video used in the program, was an athletic trainer. She was often the first responder at athletic events, but after she was found to have multiple sclerosis, she was unable to do the job.
 ''If a kid went down on the football field and was not breathing, I couldn't get there quickly enough,'' said Ms. Jackson, who earned a college degree in kinesiology long before her illness was diagnosed. 
 Ms. Jackson, 44, now runs the office of an orthopedic surgeon in Arlington, Va.
 ''She is still able to use that knowledge,'' Mr. Nissen said, transferring ''her years of experience, training and education into a different role.''
 Ms. Jackson said: ''It's not like I lost everything. So we are a little slower, and we look a little funny. You know what? That's O.K. I can still get up and go to work. A lot of people can't do that.'' 
 According to a 2004 National Organization on Disability/Harris Survey of Americans with Disabilities, only 35 percent of working-age disabled people reported being employed, compared with 78 percent of the general population. And most of the unemployed disabled people in the survey indicated that they would like to work. 
 The number of disabled workers peaked during World War II, said Phillip Rumrill, professor of rehabilitation counseling at Kent State University, in Ohio, and director of the Center for Disability Studies there. After the war, the figure waned and has changed little since.
 The Americans With Disabilities Act, passed 15 years ago, has had a profound effect on individual protections, he said. ''But it hasn't had enough of an impact to change labor force rates,'' he said.
 He suggests that workers become knowledgeable about what services are available, recommending the federally mandated state vocational rehabilitation programs, offered in all states, as a starting point.
 In New York, the state offers services including vocational training, career counseling, help in locating financing sources to start a small business, and help securing adaptive equipment, like vehicle modifications, said Rebecca Cort, deputy commissioner for the state Education Department's Office of Vocational and Educational Services for Individuals with Disabilities. Last year, 13,118 people were placed successfully in jobs through the office. 
 ''The commitment and loyalty of disabled employees is extremely high,'' Dr. Cort said, as they often stay longer at jobs than nondisabled workers do. Other experts cite multitasking and flexibility as hallmarks of disabled workers.
 ''There is a huge untapped resource of persons with disabilities who are unemployed,'' said Maria Jacobson, director of vocational services for the International Center for the Disabled in Manhattan. ''We shouldn't take for granted that they can't.'' 
 Paul Goldreyer, 43, of Manhattan, was referred to the center last year after first contacting the state office of Vocational and Educational Services. He was trained and worked as a fine-art restorer at his family's business until he became disabled as a result of liver problems and other conditions brought on by chemical toxins at work. 
 ''Life had come to a standstill,'' Mr. Goldreyer said. ''I felt as if there was no future.'' 
 The center offers diagnostic vocational evaluation and counseling, job training and job-placement services. Mr. Goldreyer's assessments identified attributes from his previous job that were transferable: the ability to stay focused, an excellent memory and experience with precise documentation. He is enrolled in the office technology program, to be trained as a medical office administrative assistant. 
 It requires ''tediousness and meticulousness -- I'm well prepared for that,'' Mr. Goldreyer said with a laugh. 
 His liver problem is in remission, he said. ''Things are looking very, very rosy. I'm really psyched for a new career.''
 Other vocational rehabilitation training programs include building maintenance, food services and direct-care human services industries. All include internships. 
 ''It breaks the ice in going back to work,'' Ms. Jacobson said, and gives the workers a recent reference. 
 Even severely disabled people can transfer their skills and find meaningful work. 
 Marilyn McDowell, a 46-year-old Bronx resident, was a pediatric nurse before a series of strokes and accidents several years ago resulted in spinal injuries. 
 ''I knew I couldn't get back to nursing,'' said Ms. McDowell, who suffers from memory loss and epilepsy, has braces on both legs and uses a wheelchair. ''I don't think it would be in the best interest of my patients.''
 She went through vocational evaluations and counseling at the International Center for the Disabled, and learned about her strengths: the ability to share her experiences and her love of people. She now works as a group facilitator at a domestic violence organization. 
 ''I wanted to give back what I was given,'' said Ms. McDowell, a divorced mother of three. ''I love my job. But there are days I get frustrated. I can cry about it. But it does not mean your life stops.'' 

Getting Back Into the Work Force: Organizations That Can Help
 HERE are some resources for people with disabilities:
 National Multiple Sclerosis Society's Career Crossroads, a workshop to help disabled people stay in the work force; for information go to www.nationalmssociety.org/employment.asp. 
 Job Accommodation Network, a free confidential service of the Labor Department's Office of Disability Employment Policy, provides helpon workplace accommodations, the Americans with Disabilities Act and self-employment options; www.jan.wvu.edu. 
 Vocational Rehabilitation Agencies, a list of federally mandated state vocational rehabilitation programs; www.jan.wvu.edu/cgi-win/TypeQuery.exe?902. 
 International Center for the Disabled, offering work-force evaluation, training and placement services; www.icdrehab.org/index.html.
 The Rehabilitation Research and Training Center on Workplace Supports and Job Retention at Virginia Commonwealth University has resources on disability issues; worksupport.com. TANYA MOHN


GRAPHIC: Photos: NEW FOCUS -- Paul Goldreyer, far left, a student at the International Center for the Disabled in Manhattan, is helped by Daria Benson at the center's office technology training program. Al Hooks, above left, another student enrolled in the program, works with Mr. Goldreyer at a computer station. (Photographs by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DENTISTRY (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); ORTHOPEDICS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (78%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (77%); CHRONIC DISEASES (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); DISABLED WORKERS (75%); KINESIOLOGY (75%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); LAWYERS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (71%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (70%); DISABLED ACCESS (66%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER (59%); NATIONAL MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS SOCIETY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



36 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 2; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: College Still Counts, Though Not as Much

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
IN the bifurcated job market of the last 25 years, a college education became an indispensable credential for a middle-class wage. That is still the case, but the payoff from a bachelor's degree is beginning to falter.
 The turning point was the 2001 recession. Until then, the typical pay of a worker with a bachelor's degree had pulled steadily away from the wages of those with only high school diplomas. Even recessions did not interrupt the climb. Starting in 2001, however, college-educated people stopped gaining ground and even lost some, suggesting that employers increasingly take degrees for granted. 
They have reason to do so. The percentage of college-educated young people has never been higher, and they are jostling for jobs in the fourth year of a recovery whose chief characteristic is a lack of robust hiring. The oversupply of college graduates is likely to disappear in the years ahead, some economists argue, but until then it is an obstacle.
 ''People have become accustomed to thinking that when they get out of college, they will earn 40 percent more than their high school friends who never went to college,'' said David Card, a labor economist at the University of California, Berkeley. ''Now we are chipping away at that wage premium.''
 Actually, it peaked in 2001 at just over 45 percent, and with the premium at more than 40 percent today, a four-year college degree is still a solid investment. Consider the median wage of full-time workers who are at least 25 years old. At the end of last year, it was $986 a week for those with a bachelor's degree or higher, versus $574 for those with only a high school education, according to the most recent calculation from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
 The narrowing in the premium partly reflects a surge in demand for high-school-educated workers in construction and health care, both booming industries in the current recovery. That helps explain why the median weekly pay of the high-school educated is up 3.6 percent since 2000, adjusted for inflation, a rate of increase four times as great as the rise in pay for the college-educated.
 ''There has been enormous demand for low-skilled workers,'' said David H. Autor, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''The reason the college premium has not fallen through the floor is that there has also been a growth in the demand for the college-educated.''
 That growth is not what it was in the late 1990's, a thriving era for high-tech industries and Wall Street investment companies. But after a fallow couple of years, hiring picked up last spring for new graduates with bachelor's degrees, the National Association of Colleges and Employers reported. While the revival is a shadow of what used to be, a college education is still a ticket into the work force. 
 Nearly 76 percent of those with a four-year college education in America hold jobs, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reports, compared with only 60 percent of high school graduates. Those percentages are down only a hair this decade, but among the college-educated a noticeable number with bachelor's degrees are showing up in jobs that seem to require only a high school education.
 The bureau tracks this through a periodic survey of workers age 25 to 44. The most recent survey, completed in 2002, shows, for example, that 17 percent of the nation's office clerks had bachelor's degrees or higher. So did 12 percent of the derrick operators; 19 percent of the theater ushers, lobby attendants and ticket takers; 13 percent of the bank tellers; 14 percent of the typists and word processors; and 37 percent of the flight attendants -- to cite just a few occupations that do not seem to require a college education, although at least 10 percent of the jobholders have one.
 Clearly there are more college graduates than unfilled jobs requiring their credentials. But demand is not the only issue. Other factors also play a role, says Daniel E. Hecker, an economist in the bureau's Office of Occupational Statistics.
 Some college graduates choose the lesser job because it fits their schedule or they prefer less challenging work or they think it is a step to something better. Others have been laid off and cannot get another college-level job. Then, too, some employers have upgraded their education requirements to take advantage of the ample supply of college graduates. 
 ''It could be,'' said Lawrence F. Katz, a Harvard University labor economist, ''that being a flight attendant in business class or first class on an international flight requires a set of language and interpersonal skills that could be quite different than if you are just shoveling drinks in economy class.'' 
 The downward pressure on the wage premium and the healthy supply of college graduates are also encouraging what labor economists describe as a sorting process, one in which employers increasingly rank college graduates. Or, as Mr. Hecker put it, ''Many people with bachelor's degrees did not develop the skills in college that employers are looking for in college graduates.''
 More than in the past, these underperformers are being ranked with high school graduates, while others above them are sorted by school attended, field of study, postgraduate degrees and the like. ''What you are looking for are signals that tell you this person has the most potential,'' said Anthony Carnevale, a senior fellow at the National Center on Education and the Economy. ''So if they went to Harvard or Swarthmore, you use that as a marker of greater potential.'' 
 For the chosen, particularly those with postgraduate degrees, the wage premium continues to rise, but for the huge mass of college graduates, the chipping away is likely to continue until a shortage finally develops. That is not happening yet. Twenty-nine percent of the population age 25 to 29 held bachelor's degrees in 2002, up from 23.2 percent in 1990. 
 But the big jump in the 90's is not likely to repeat itself in this decade, said Susan M. Dynarski, a labor economist at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard. Cost may intervene; if tuitions continue to rise, enrollment is most likely to shrink, and if interest rates go up, as they are now, that will eventually discourage borrowing to attend college.
 Demographics, however, are the biggest factor, Ms. Dynarski said. After the big leap in the 90's, the percentage of 25-to-29-year-olds with bachelor's degrees has risen less than a point since 1999, and that stagnation may continue as blacks and Hispanics, whose share in the work force is rising, replace whites, with their higher contingent of college graduates.
 ''We have these exiting workers who tend to be the most educated,'' she said of the baby boomers, ''and not a similar demographic group replacing them.''


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''A College Degree: Good for the Paycheck''The earnings gap between college graduates and high school graduates has narrowed a bit recently, but it remains substantial. And college graduates are still more likely to have a job.Graph tracks earnings gap and percentage employed for 1975 and 2002, respectively. (Source by Economic Policy Institute)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); STATISTICS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



37 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2436 words

HEADLINE: Reading the Signposts 

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
THE Manhattan real estate market can be a bewildering place, with stratospheric prices and a chorus of warnings about speculation and bursting bubbles. No wonder anxious buyers are gasping for breath. 
 But what is the true state of the market here? Is it fueled by speculation? How much do low interest rates increase buying power? How are people able to afford double-digit price increases? Will thousands of new apartments coming on the market bring a glut that spells the beginning of the end?
Many of the articles about the state of the market nationally fail to account for patterns in the city, where many residences are not real property, but co-ops whose sale is recorded as stock transfers. 
 There are more questions than answers, but what follows is an attempt to look at New York real estate from varying perspectives.
Is Speculation Rampant?
 Market bubbles, whether in stocks or real estate, are typically characterized by an increase in speculation. 
 So is New York rife with people rolling the dice on real estate riches? 
 An analysis of sales going back to the mid-1980's found little evidence that flipping property is common. 
 The study, done at the request of The New York Times by the appraisal firm Miller Samuel, which tracks both co-ops and condos, found that of 4,339 condo sales in Manhattan last year, 5.9 percent involved apartments that had been bought and resold within 18 months. Since 1997, that number has remained relatively constant, ranging from 5.9 to 7.5 percent annually. 
 Flipping, if it goes on at all, is done almost entirely with condos, because co-op boards favor owner occupants and make the resale process too cumbersome. Figures for co-op sales since the mid-1980's show that 1.3 to 4.9 percent of all transactions each year were for apartments that were held for 18 months or less. But assuming that almost none of the co-ops were sold by speculators, those sales were most likely occurring because of situations like job transfers or changes in income -- and the same would apply to many of the quick condo sales. 
 Only a small part of the overall sales, therefore, would be by flippers hoping for quick profits, according to Jonathan J. Miller, president of Miller Samuel. ''The way I characterize the market flip phenomenon in Manhattan is that it's a non-factor,'' Mr. Miller said. ''It's not influencing the way projects are being developed, it's not influencing the way properties are being marketed, it's really incidental to the overall market activity.'' 
 That makes Manhattan very different from markets in South Florida or Las Vegas. A study last month by First American Real Estate Solutions, a provider of real estate data, found that 36 percent of all home sales last year in Miami-Dade County, Florida, and 40 percent of sales in Clark County, Nevada, where Las Vegas is located, were for homes sold in less than two years. By comparison, only 7.1 percent of all apartment transactions in Manhattan were for units that sold twice in 24 months, according to Miller Samuel. Real estate brokers and lawyers say that flipping in Manhattan is simply too costly for much of it to be going on.
 Michael Shvo, a broker who markets new developments, said that taxes, closing costs and broker fees usually mean that a flipper must see at least a 10 percent appreciation before he will begin to profit. 

How Cheap Is Cheap Money?
 It is a truism of the current real estate boom that the surging market across the country is driven by low interest rates that allow people to borrow more money, and to buy bigger apartments and houses. 
 But the link between interest rates and real estate prices hasn't always seemed so direct, especially when evaluated over several decades and considering inflation. It is important to consider inflation when talking about mortgage rates, economists say, because it gives a truer picture of the real value of money over time. Inflation eats away at the value of a loan over time, as well as the real cost of monthly mortgage payments, and that helps determine the overall value of a real estate transaction. 
 The average rate for a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage available in the first half of this year was 5.74 percent, according to Freddie Mac, the government-chartered mortgage reseller. Economists at Freddie Mac calculated an inflation-adjusted interest rate of 3.28 percent for the first six months of 2005. That is well below the average inflation-adjusted long term mortgage rate of 4.42 percent since 1963, but it is far from the lowest during that period. 
 In the mid-1970's, for instance, mortgage rates were in the 8 to 9 percent range, but the inflation-adjusted interest rate in 1976 was just 0.25 percent, according to Freddie Mac. The low real rates, though, did not spark a real estate boom. It was not until the following years, when nominal and inflation-adjusted interest rates began to rise, that housing prices followed suit. 
 From 1980 to 1990, the average mortgage rate was consistently above 10 percent. The co-op and condo market in New York peaked in 1987 and bottomed out in the mid-1990's. During most of that time, inflation-adjusted mortgage rates were falling, but they did not seem to put a brake on falling prices. 
 Markus K. Brunnermeier, an assistant professor of economics at Princeton University, said that people should make decisions on whether to buy or rent a house based on the real interest rate, that is, the mortgage rate minus inflation. Instead, they tend to look only at nominal interest rates.
 Mr. Brunnermeier sees a powerful link between inflation and house price trends. When inflation is high, he says, people often make a basic mistake in their mental accounting when deciding whether it makes more financial sense to rent or buy a home. They tend to ignore the fact that rents will rise steadily with inflation, while, because of the same inflationary effect, the value of their mortgage payment will actually go down in real terms. This makes them think renting is cheaper than it is and tends to draw people away from the housing market, which in turn can help drive down housing prices. 
 When inflation is low, people make the opposite mistake. They fail to understand that, while rents will remain relatively stable, the beneficial effect of inflation on their mortgage payments will be slight. Lured by low nominal interest rates, which track the rise and fall of inflation, people jump into the housing market. 

Are We Getting More?
 Have low rates allowed people to get more home for their money? Or have they simply enabled prices to rise so much that home buyers are barely keeping up? 
 To answer that question, it is helpful to look at the case of a single Manhattan apartment that has changed hands several times in recent years. 
 A 760-square-foot one-bedroom apartment at 317 West 95th Street, a condo building, was chosen from recent records filed with the city. The apartment first came on the market in 1988, when it sold for $160,000. It sold again in 1999 for $161,000, and then three times in quick succession, for $260,000 in 2000, for $325,000 in 2003 and for $560,000 last August. 
 The price of the apartment went up over the years, but at the same time interest rates were trending down. For the sake of comparison, suppose that each buyer made a 20 percent down payment and financed the rest with a 30-year-fixed-rate mortgage at the prevailing rate at the time. At the time of the 1999 sale, the average national mortgage rate was 10.32 percent, according to Freddie Mac, and a hypothetical buyer would have paid $1,153 a month. In 2000, the rate was 8.64 percent and the monthly payment would have been $1,620. When the apartment sold in August, rates stood at 5.8 percent, for a $2,628 monthly bill. 
 Even when inflation is taken into account -- the 1989 payments are the equivalent of $1,896 in today's dollars -- the buyer today has a much lower rate but a heavier debt burden.
 ''You have to take on a lot more debt to buy a house today,'' said Ian Morris, chief economist in the United States for HSBC, who believes real estate is overvalued. ''So even though interest rates are low, your mortgage payments are high.'' 

Is Buying Power Stronger?
 Everyone knows that apartment prices are going up, but what about incomes?
 The answer to that depends on how you slice the data. 
 Data from Miller Samuel shows the median price per square foot for all Manhattan apartments reached a high point in 1987, at $305 a square foot for co-ops and $413 a square foot for condos. What that means is that the median price for a 1,000-square-foot co-op was $305,000 -- half the co-ops sold in Manhattan cost more than that and half cost less. 
 Prices bottomed out by the mid-1990's, losing about 44 percent of their value in real terms, and then they started to rise again. By 2002, prices had passed their 1987 levels, measured in inflation-adjusted dollars and by the first six months of 2005, the median co-op price was up 37 percent from 1987, while the condo price was 35 percent greater. Averaged across the entire period, the cost of a Manhattan apartment has risen at a rate of about 2 percent a year above inflation. 
 So what happened to the median income in Manhattan during the same period? 
 Census data reveals that median household income growth in Manhattan was strong from 1979 to 1989, increasing 35.8 percent above inflation. But in the 1990's, median income -- the point at which half the households earned more and half earned less -- barely rose, going up just 8.5 percent in real terms from 1989 to 1999, or 0.85 percent a year. Since then, a similar rate of growth has been documented by the Census Bureau in its annual American Community Survey, which shows a 4.1 percent inflation-adjusted increase in the median income for Manhattan from 2000 through 2004, or 0.82 percent a year. The median household income last year in Manhattan was $50,731, according to the Census Bureau. 
 In other words, since the last peak in the real estate market, Manhattan apartment prices have grown about one and a half times faster than median household income. 
 Manhattan has the greatest income disparity of any county in the country, and the census data shows that while the household income for the bottom 20 percent rose just 7.9 percent from 1989 to 1999, in real terms, the income of the top 20 percent went up 61.5 percent. 
 Reasoning that it is mainly earners at the top end who can afford to buy an apartment in Manhattan, a group of economists argues that, despite the galloping price increases of recent years, real estate on the island has actually become more affordable. 
 The group, Business360, an economic consulting firm, compared the increase in apartment prices per square foot with increases in personal income for Manhattan. While real estate prices rose and fell and rose again, average personal income in Manhattan, reported by the federal government's Bureau of Economic Analysis, rose at a fairly steady pace, increasing 87 percent in real terms since 1981. The figure is very different from the median because it is an average of all earners, and with Manhattan's great income disparity, it is heavily skewed toward the top. 
 Average income has grown faster than average prices, which since 1981 are up 50 percent for co-ops and 37 percent for condos. Because of that, the study concludes, housing is more affordable for the average Manhattanite than it was in the early 1980's or at the peak of the last real estate boom.
 To show the relationship between rising incomes and prices and falling interest rates, Business360 calculated the number of days it would take for the average household to earn enough money to pay a year's mortgage payments for a 1,000-square-foot condo, at the average mortgage rate and square foot price for each year of the study. In 1987, it took 273 workdays to cover the mortgage, while today, the study concluded, it takes 152 days. The average household income for Manhattan, projected by Woods & Poole Economics, is $185,993. 
 ''People look at the prices -- they're stratospheric -- and they think that that's a bubble,'' said John Marchant, one of the economists who wrote the Business360 study. ''But if they looked at what people are earning in New York, they'd think that's outrageous too.'' 
 Ingrid Gould Ellen, the co-director of the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at New York University School of Law, said: ''It really depends on who your target is when you talk about affordability. For the median earner in Manhattan, those apartments are going to be less affordable, but somebody's buying them.''

Will There Be a Condo Glut?
 New buildings with thousands of units, from luxury condos to below-market rentals, are going up all over New York City in the biggest building boom in years. Last year, the city gave out permits for 25,208 new units, according to the Census Bureau. That puts it firmly ahead of the last boom, in the mid-80's, when permits reached a peak of 20,332 permits in 1985. 
 Yale Robbins, a publisher of real estate directories and surveys, said some 19,000 units, mostly condos, will be completed in Manhattan over the next two years. In addition, he said, developers have plans for as many as 27,000 units in the outer boroughs. ''My feeling is it can be absorbed,'' he said. But, he added, ''With the amount of supply coming on the market I have a hard time understanding how prices can go up much higher.''
 So when does a boom become a glut? 
 ''It's possible but nothing I see in the current data even suggests that we're even close to that kind of scenario,'' said Shaun Donovan, the commissioner of the Department of Housing Preservation and Development. 
 His agency estimates the city has a shortage of at least 135,000 homes, and probably many more. ''If you go back to the 1980's, the city was for many years losing population,'' Mr. Donovan said. ''There was a dramatic decline in population in the 1970's and that's a fundamentally different story than what we're seeing today.'' 
 In contrast, the city population grew by about an estimated 900,000 people since 1990, he said. City officials predict another 200,000 newcomers by the end of the decade. The city is promoting the building of below-market-rate housing, but Mr. Donovan said that new construction at all price levels helps alleviate the pressure on the market. 
 ''In my mind,'' he said, ''the primary thing that's driving the strength of our market, and the negative effects in terms of affordability that comes with that, is our housing shortage.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: TRUE INTEREST RATES -- The economist Markus K. Brunnermeier says people misunderstand the true effect of inflation in deciding whether to rent or buy a house. (Photo by Timothy Ivy for The New York Times)
 RESIDENTIAL BOOM -- This building going up at Broadway and 110th Street is part of a wave of new construction. Last year, the city gave out permits for 25,208 new housing units. (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)(pg. 9)Drawing (Illustration by Ross MacDonald)(pg. 1)Chart: ''Weighing Manhattan Prices''The median price per square foot of Manhattan apartments peaked in the mid-1980's, crashed in the mid-1990's and has since risen to a new high. Mortgage rates are low now, but they were high during the 1980's housing boom.Graph tracks median apartment price per square foot (inflation adjusted and actual) since 1986.Graph tracks long-term fixed mortgage rate since 1965.(Sources by Miller Samuel, Freddie Mac)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); INTEREST RATES (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CORELOGIC INC (50%)

TICKER: CLGX (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (50%); NAICS524127 DIRECT TITLE INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (50%); SIC6361 TITLE INSURANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



38 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; HABITATS/United Nations Plaza; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: A TV Reporter Finds a Home With a TV Past

BYLINE: By JOANNE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
A COAST GUARD cutter streams by, leaving a spray of water in its wake. Just a few waves behind: a tugboat. This is the sort of traffic Vera Gibbons routinely sees from the long stretch of windows in her 19th floor apartment at United Nations Plaza, along with sailboats and the odd kayak or two. 
 ''I grew up on the water,'' said Ms. Gibbons, 38, who moved to Manhattan 10 years ago from Mattapoisett, Mass., and who appears on television for Kiplinger's Personal Finance magazine. 
 The expanses -- east, north and west, and almost floor to ceiling -- are both distracting and inspiring, and are still a fabulous novelty; it has been barely six months since Ms. Gibbons moved from an East 52nd Street co-op whose windows offered nothing but an up close and personal view of the neighbors. But she savors her new apartment's history and vibes as much as its views. 
 The previous owner was Walter Cronkite, who for five years used the 900-square-foot one-bedroom apartment as an office. ''It was good karma,'' she said.
 When Ms. Gibbons, then a writer for Smart Money magazine, bought the 52nd Street one-bedroom in 1998, a few years after moving to the city, the lack of a view was really not a problem. ''I didn't think I needed one,'' she said. ''The apartment had a beautiful layout; it was safe and secure.''
 Ms. Gibbons rethought matters when, just after 9/11, she went from writing consumer pieces and articles about charitable giving to representing Smart Money in television segments about the latest economic forecasts. (Is the employment picture getting rosier? What are the growing segments of the job market? What's the best way to choose an accountant?) 
 The good news about Ms. Gibbons's new slate of responsibilities: she was no longer expected to show up at the office every day. The bad news: she was no longer expected to show up at the office every day. ''I was spending most of my time by myself in my gloomy apartment analyzing data,'' said Ms. Gibbons, who moved to Kiplinger's in 2003. She appears Saturday mornings on MSNBC; Mondays and Thursdays on CNN Headline News; and monthly on CBS's ''Early Show'' and the weekend edition of ''Today.'' 
 ''I began fiddling around on the Internet looking for a new place and became increasingly more serious this year,'' she said. ''This was such a rough winter.'' It was dark, and she was down. 
 Then Ms. Gibbons happened on the Fox Residential Realty Web site, which featured an enticing description of a one-bedroom apartment with lofty vistas. The broker, Joanna Simon, showed her around and noticed her noticing the photos of Mr. Cronkite, the newscaster long described as the most trusted man in America. ''She said, 'I don't know if you know it, but this is Walter Cronkite's apartment,''' Ms. Gibbons recalled.
 There was, Ms. Gibbons remembered, a conference table in the middle of the living room, a work station nestled between two sets of built-in bookcases, a big leather easy chair in one corner and a handsome desk in another. There were ornate brass knobs on the doors (not Ms. Gibbons's taste), ornate moldings painted brown with gold speckles (totally not Ms. Gibbons's taste) and brown tiles paving the kitchen walls (oh dear).
 ''It looked like an office, but I saw how I could turn it around,'' she said. ''I just thought, 'Wouldn't it be fun to have Walter Cronkite's apartment?''' She would not say precisely what she paid, but said it was less than $1 million for what she calls multimillion-dollar views. 
 Few are immune to their charms. ''When the cable guy came,'' Ms. Gibbons recalled, ''he said, 'So where can I put my lounge chair?'''
 In February, soon after Ms. Gibbons put down her deposit, she got a call from the broker. The ever-cordial Mr. Cronkite would be happy to meet her. When was she free? That was easy. ''I'm free,'' Ms. Gibbons remembered answering, ''when he's free.'' 
 A few days later, broker, buyer and seller sat companionably around the conference table in the apartment. ''He was such a nice guy, everything you'd expect him to be,'' Ms. Gibbons recalled. He asked about her job, and he asked her to his nearby apartment to have a drink with his family.
 He also asked Ms. Gibbons to drop by his place in Martha's Vineyard (she did, during a trip home this past August) and wanted to know if she would be interested in any of the pieces in the office. Only the desk, a family heirloom, tempted her, but it was already promised to Mr. Cronkite's son.
 Furniture acquisition is moving at a stately pace, as is the whole process of home improvement. So far, two decorative columns in the entry have been clipped, leaving the bases behind. The ornate moldings were painted white after Ms. Gibbons decided it was too big a production to remove them, and some of the brass door handles have been replaced by sleek chrome. 
 But her yellow and white striped wallpaper has not been put up in the entryway. The flat-screen television that is planned for the spot that held Mr. Cronkite's computer has been ordered but has yet to appear. Ditto the contingent from California Closets. 
 The sofa pillows, the teal draperies, the blue and white floral-covered headboard for the bed and the cream-colored cushions for the window seat are currently represented by fabric swatches. Eventually, the appliances in the galley kitchen -- only morning coffee is prepared there -- will be upgraded, with the Formica replaced by granite.
 But Ms. Gibbons, who has animated the living room with family photos, seems to feel no particular urgency about getting things spruced up. ''It just means more checks to write,'' she said.
 Still, the pressure may soon start to mount. ''My friends in the media want to know when the housewarming party is going to be, and they want to know if Walter is going to come,'' Ms. Gibbons said. ''He's already told me he'll be there.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: AND THAT'S THE WAY IT IS -- Vera Gibbons, who appears on television for Kiplinger's Personal Finance magazine, in her Manhattan apartment, which has fabulous views and a television-related history. It was previously used by Walter Cronkite as his office. (Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (75%); WRITERS (75%); CITY LIFE (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); CHARITIES (66%); NETWORK TELEVISION (66%); EMPLOYMENT (63%); INTERNET & WWW (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



39 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: Embracing the Neighborhood Ambience 

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
CONSTANCE K. NEWSOM takes pride in her prewar row house in Boerum Hill, Brooklyn -- pre-Civil War, that is -- but she is also looking forward to some new neighbors across the street, a row of 14 starkly modern single-family town houses taking shape in cinderblock outlines.
 The town houses on State Street, priced at about $2.6 million, are the leading edge of a series of projects that are to fill in lots that were cleared decades ago in the name of urban renewal, only to become a battleground of urban dreams.
For years, Ms. Newsom and her neighbors on State Street fought off proposals to turn the block into high-rise low-income housing, or a huge court complex. Now they are mostly thrilled with the plans but anxious about how things will finally look. The town houses are part of a larger project: It will eventually include condominium developments, lofts, commercial space, a theater and subsidized housing, much of it for people working in the entertainment industry. 
 The houses, under construction by two developers, Abby Hamlin and Francis Greenburger, were designed to embrace the lightly ornamented Greek Revival brick buildings across the street built in the late 1840's, and the more elaborate Italianate 1870's brownstone down the block, while at the same time remaining decidedly different.
 Averaging just under 18 feet wide, the houses are to include front stoops, iron railings, cast limestone details, and facade lines to echo those of their older neighbors, along with patches of old-fashioned red brick. 
 But the new buildings dropped the ornamentation of their neighbors and added some modern strokes -- swatches or entire facades of more contemporary white and black bricks, and dramatic window layouts, some set off by wide copper panels, that change from house to house. Every facade is different. ''We were looking for a way to respond to the neighborhood, but in a way that was original,'' Ms. Hamlin said. 
 Ms. Hamlin managed the portfolios for several families with large real estate holdings in New York as president of Swig, Weiler & Arnow, before setting up her own development company, Hamlin Ventures. The project is a joint venture of her firm and the much larger Time Equities, a real estate development and management firm headed by Mr. Greenburger.
 The design by Rogers Marvel Architects was one of nine winners of housing design awards to be presented later this month by the American Institute of Architects New York Chapter. (Richard Meier was also a winner this year for his recent glass tower at 165 Charles Street, as was Davis Brody Bond, for Strivers Gardens, a condo project on West 135th Street.)
 Ms. Newsom, who was chairwoman of a subcommittee that reviewed proposals for the site, said that although some neighbors ''wanted Corinthian columns,'' people are ''essentially happy,'' based on the renderings they have seen and the plans reviewed by their architect.
 ''Modern design is the only thing you can do credibly,'' she said. ''But it will be like Avery Fisher Hall, until the bands start to play, we won't know what it sounds like.'' 
 The new town houses are priced somewhat above the prevailing prices for older town houses in the neighborhood, where, brokers say, recent sales have ranged up to about $1.9 million. But unlike older houses, which often require restoration or redesign, the new houses will be completely finished, Ms. Hamlin said, with materials like honed slate, marble and teak, which are offered in the latest Manhattan condo developments, but with far more space, along with a private backyard and a working fireplace.
 And unlike older town houses, which often let in little light through their narrow windows and northern exposures, these will include a 21-foot wall of windows facing the backyards, which are 37 feet deep. 
 Some of the town houses will have a fifth-floor penthouse and gardens, other smaller ones will have front balconies on the fourth floor, framed by a roof cornice line, like a giant picture window. Unlike condos, each house will also have a 900-square-foot cellar.
 Ms. Hamlin said most of the potential buyers -- one house is now in contract -- have been from Manhattan, families with two or three children, seeking more space. The town houses are around the corner from the A line subway and about 20 minutes to Times Square. 
 Jonathan J. Marvel, a principal in Rogers Marvel, said that the opportunity to design a unified block of individual row houses was extraordinary, almost unknown because many of the last blocks of speculative row houses were built in Harlem at the turn of the 20th century.
 ''It is something of our time, and not out of place in the neighborhood,'' he said. ''It is also something playful, that creates a sense of individuality, yet all within the composition as a whole.''
 If the houses sell, the developers plan to build 10 more around the corner of State and Hoyt Street, and other developers might be prompted to follow their lead, especially where the zoning already bars more dense development. 
 Town house developments have been rare for the last century because developers usually want to put up the most housing in the smallest possible space. There have been only a few rows of luxury town houses built, and they have had their troubles.
 In the 1980's, Sheldon Solow built a row of 11 18-foot-wide granite-clad town houses on East 67th Street near Second Avenue in Manhattan, adjacent to a 45-story building he built that used up most of the zoning rights for the site.
 The houses were offered for sale in the mid-1980's for several million dollars each, but amid the real estate recession that followed, they were never sold, and are now offered for rent, with some now divided into two and three apartments. Many row houses built outside Manhattan in recent years have been two- or three-family houses constructed under city programs for buyers with moderate income. 
 But Richard Bearak, the deputy director for planning and development in the Brooklyn borough president's office, said new contextual zoning rules in neighborhoods like Park Slope that limit building sizes could encourage the construction of row houses, because they are smaller. 
 Four and a half years ago, the developers bought the State Street site from New York State for $4.6 million, after being selected in response to a request for proposals. The market value of vacant land in downtown Brooklyn has since soared. Though the developers paid less than $10 a square foot for 500,000 square feet of development rights, after excluding the subsidized project, land in the area has recently been offered for sale for as much as $150 per square foot of development, Ms. Hamlin said. 
 A few years back, Karen Sebiri, a broker for Prudential Douglas Elliman (the new town house project is being marketed by Corcoran), considered buying a row house on this section of State Street, but was scared off by the uncertainty of what might be built next door. Now she said she believes the new project will be ''a big boost for the entire neighborhood.''
 ''When you put something like this in, you are only going to bring up prices in the neighborhood,'' she said. ''Had I known there would be luxury town houses across the street, I would have bought.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: PREWAR ECHO -- A rendering of town houses under construction in Boerum Hill, Brooklyn. Each will be priced at $2.6 million. (Photo by dbox)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (88%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (88%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); FAMILY (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (74%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); AWARDS & PRIZES (62%); JOINT VENTURES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



40 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Medicaid's Code Red

BYLINE: By Louis S. Richman. 
Louis S. Richman is a research associate at the American Institute for Economic Research.

 BODY:
NEW YORK lawmakers are understandably concerned about the runaway cost of Medicaid. With nearly four million people receiving benefits, New York's program is the largest and most costly in the country.
 And the program is rife with fraud and abuse. According to James Mehmet, former investigator for the Health Department's fraud and abuse office in New York City, some 40 percent of all claims in the state are considered questionable, costing taxpayers as much as $18 billion a year. 
Unfortunately, the reform agenda being pushed in Albany focuses mostly on various symptoms of the problem, rather than the problem itself, which is structural. Medicaid is not one program, but 56 different ones operating in the 50 states, Washington and five United States territories. Unlike Medicare, which is entirely a federal program, Medicaid is paid for by both the federal and state governments. 
 Like many other federal initiatives, the program had modest beginnings, with a first-year budget in 1965 of $770 million. This year, it will cost about $330 billion. New York's share of this will be around $45 billion, nearly 14 percent of the total.
 Since states are authorized to supplement federally mandated services and extend eligibility beyond what Washington requires, programs vary greatly, giving states considerable flexibility as they consider ways to fix their ailing programs. New York offers one of the most comprehensive and inclusive programs in the country, spending nearly $10,800 per year per beneficiary. California, by contrast, spends less than half that per beneficiary.
 Through a complicated cost-sharing formula based on a state's average per capita income, federal matching funds cover from about half to more than three-fourths of the states' Medicaid costs. On average, Washington picks up 57 percent of the tab.
 One of Albany's complaints, voiced by Joseph Bruno, the Senate majority leader, and others, is that Washington is shortchanging New York, reimbursing only half of the cost. According to Mr. Bruno, the 50 percent federal share New York receives is lower than that of 37 other states and more than 10 percent below the national average. ''If our United States senators could even get New York up to the 60 percent national average,'' he said, ''we would receive almost $5 billion more.'' 
 Medicaid began as a welfare program, providing basic medical services and hospital care to welfare recipients. Eligibility was restricted to families and households with limited assets and incomes at or below the federal poverty line. Over time, the mission was expanded to cover people with disabilities, elderly nursing-home residents who have exhausted their savings and assets, former welfare recipients and pregnant women, infants and children from households with incomes up to twice the poverty level. No state has been more generous in extending eligibility than New York.
 To fix Medicaid, the program needs to be fundamentally rethought. The only alternatives to such a rethinking involve ending eligibility for thousands of beneficiaries, cutting back on treatments available under the program and demanding more money from Washington at a time when the federal government seeks to provide less. All these options are political nonstarters and would do little to alter the program's structural flaws. 
 Fortunately, states like Colorado, Florida and South Carolina recognize the need to change and have developed a new model that other states could use. Perhaps New York can learn from their experience. 
 Under the new patient-centered approach these states are pursuing, they would no longer pay Medicaid bills directly. Instead, they would give eligible recipients cash grants to purchase health insurance from a range of providers approved by the state through a competitive bidding process not unlike the process used to qualify insurers under the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program. Any part of the cash grant not spent on insurance would be invested in a medical-savings account to cover deductibles and co-payments.
 Such a system would have several advantages. Program participants would be indistinguishable from other insured patients, and therefore doctors, hospitals and clinics would no longer have an incentive to spurn them and would be far less likely to get away with overbilling and other fraudulent charges. Besides, for $20,000 a year -- less than half of what the program now costs the state -- a family of four could purchase a good insurance plan. 
 Because Medicaid beneficiaries would have an incentive to seek the best insurance value for their money, and to work their way into better jobs requiring less assistance, Medicaid's costs could be brought under control. It would be a win-win situation all around.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (86%); FUNDRAISING (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); US WOMEN INFANTS & CHILDREN PROGRAM (77%); FAMILY (77%); POVERTY RATES (76%); HOSPITALS (74%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); MATCHING GIFTS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); CHILDREN (64%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (64%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (60%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (60%); US TERRITORIES (54%) Medicine and Health; Medicaid

PERSON: Louis Richman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (89%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



41 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: Where There's Smoke, There's Still Ire

BYLINE: By DONNA KUTT NAHAS

 BODY:
IN 2003 when state lawmakers debated a bill to eliminate smoking from nearly all workplaces, Jim Haefner predicted that it would ruin his bar business in Lynbrook. 
 Mr. Haefner, who has been serving cocktails and beer at B.K. Sweeney's American Grill for nearly 20 years, said he has never been bothered by a smoke-filled barroom. But now, two years since the ban took effect in July 2003, he says he ''kind of likes'' the smoking ban and relishes going home not smelling like smoke.
But some bar owners are not so happy, saying their profits have decreased under the ban. A group of Suffolk County tavern owners have filed two lawsuits to overturn the measure. 
 Under the law, bar owners who can prove that the ban has caused undue financial hardship can apply to local health departments for a waiver. Yet no one has applied for a waiver in either Nassau or Suffolk County, said Cynthia Brown, spokeswoman for the Nassau Health Department, and Lori Benincasa, director of health education for the Suffolk Department of Health Services. 
 Despite the ban and hundreds of citations for violating the law, smoking continues in some Long Island bars. Many bars in Nassau and Suffolk would go out of business, owners say, if they complied with the law, which is enforced by inspectors from the county health departments who are dispatched if a complaint is received or visit during regular food inspections.
 ''After 10 p.m., if you go almost anywhere on Long Island, most people smoke in bars,'' said Jack McCarthy, the president of the Suffolk County Restaurant and Tavern Association. ''They figure the health inspectors are gone, so they smoke.''
 The initial no-smoking bill, introduced by State Senator Charles J. Fuschillo, Republican of Merrick, and Assemblyman Alexander B. Grannis, Democrat of Manhattan, was intended primarily to protect workers from secondhand smoke.
 A recent study financed by the State Department of Health and reported in the international journal Tobacco Control in August said that the rates of respiratory and related illnesses among bar workers dropped to 38 percent in 2004 from 88 percent in 2002. The department said that 93 percent of the state's 78,000 restaurants, bars and bowling alleys were complying with the law.
 But some restaurants and taverns say that there are economic ramifications and that their profits are eroding because of the smoking ban.
 ''Initially it was quite a blow,'' said Claudia Bruno, the executive director of the Long Island chapter of the New York State Restaurant Association. ''Restaurants were off 10 to 15 percent for the first year. Some have seen their businesses come back, and some are at the same level. But it's the bars that are feeling it.''
 Mr. McCarthy contends that 70 percent of his 250 members say their business is off 20 to 50 percent.
 ''Money is made on cocktails, desserts, cordials and bottles of wine,'' said Mr. McCarthy, who owns McCarthy's Pub in Centereach.
 Yet the State Department of Taxation and Finance said that sales at bars and taverns from September 2003 to August 2004, the most recent period reported, were up nearly 3.5 percent compared with the same period a year earlier. 
 The law says that complying with the ban means that bar and restaurant owners must post no-smoking signs, remove ashtrays and make a reasonable effort to prevent customers from smoking. 
 In the last year in Nassau County, 312 violations were recorded, and in Suffolk, 157 violations were issued from July 2003 through Sept. 21. Violators can be fined up to $1,000 by the local health department for a first offense. 
 Late one night in September at the Posh Ultra Lounge at the Garden City Hotel, two women in their 20's held cocktails in one hand and cigarettes in the other. When asked if they were aware that smoking was prohibited in public places, they shouted above the din, ''You can smoke here.'' At the other side of the bar, a circle of well-dressed women puffed on cigarettes, chatted and giggled as bouncers stood nearby.
 Brian Rosenberg, the hotel's vice president who oversees the lounge, said: ''We are trying to follow the law as best we can. We have over 5,000 square feet. We say, 'Put it out,' and they walk to another area of the nightclub and light up again.''
 From August 2004 to August 2005, 248 complaints about illegal smoking were reported to the Nassau Health Department, Ms. Brown said. In Suffolk, 602 complaints were logged over a two-year period beginning in July 2003, Ms. Benincasa said.
 Many bar and restaurant owners who do comply with the ban complain that the law's instructions on enforcement are vague. 
 ''You cannot make a bar or restaurant owner a police officer,'' said John R. Ryerson, who owns McGuire's Restaurant and Comedy Club in Bohemia. ''Am I a police officer? If I am, then deputize me and give me a badge.''
 Opponents contend that the ban also harms the industry that markets electronic games and jukeboxes to bars. Danny Frank, the executive director of the Amusement and Music Owners of New York, a trade group, says that because customers cannot smoke in bars, they spend less time drinking and less time shooting pool or playing electronic shuffleboard.
 ''Look at what they've done to our industry, and the hardships they have imposed,'' he said. ''They are not getting to the heart of the problem. They don't hit the target but shoot an arrow in the woods and hurt someone else who really shouldn't be a victim.''
 Some taverns in Suffolk are fighting the legislation in court. Last October three bar owners filed a lawsuit in State Supreme Court challenging the Suffolk health department's ruling that they had violated the ban when they continued to serve alcoholic drinks to customers who refused to stop smoking. The judge, Paul J. Baisley Jr., agreed with the bar owners and said the department's ruling was ''arbitrary and capricious.'' 
 In April, Suffolk County appealed the decision to the Appellate Division in Brooklyn. The court is expected to rule in three to six months, after it hears oral arguments. 
 The same Suffolk taverns filed a second lawsuit against the health department in June in an effort to strike down the law. William C. Goggins, the lawyer for the bar owners, said the ban was written in ''such a manner as to permit or encourage arbitrary enforcement.'' 
 Opponents say that even if the ban is not overturned, they will fight to amend the law and shift the burden of guilt from the bar owner to the smoker. 
 Senator John J. Flanagan, Republican of East Northport, said he agreed with opponents that the law was not being enforced evenly, and he said a bill he introduced in June would cite ''both violators'' of the law: the bar owner and the smoker. 
 The bill did not come to a vote in the Senate, but Mr. Flanagan said he would refer it to the Health Committee again in January. 
 Brian X. Foley, a member of the Suffolk County Legislature who wrote the county's version of the law, said the push for an amendment was an attempt to undercut the measure. 
 ''The Suffolk Bar and Tavern Association is opposed to any kind of legislation that will protect lives,'' said Mr. Foley, a Patchogue Democrat who is running for Brookhaven town supervisor. ''Every worker in a restaurant, corporate tower in Manhattan or corner tavern has a right to a safe, healthy workplace.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rich Wolff and Kristin Zurlo step out for a smoke at B.K. Sweeney's American Grill in Lynbrook. (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (91%); SMOKING BANS (91%); SMOKING (90%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (90%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LITIGATION (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); RESTAURANT INSPECTION & LICENSING (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); FOOD INSPECTION (65%); BOWLING CENTERS (50%) Smoking and Tobacco; Bars; Law and Legislation; Suits and Litigation; Smoking and Tobacco

PERSON: Cynthia Brown; Lori Benincasa; Donna Kutt Nahas

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Suffolk County (NY); Long Island (NY); New York State; Nassau County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



42 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Medicaid's Code Red

BYLINE: By Louis S. Richman. 
Louis S. Richman is a research associate at the American Institute for Economic Research.

 BODY:
NEW YORK lawmakers are understandably concerned about the runaway cost of Medicaid. With nearly four million people receiving benefits, New York's program is the largest and most costly in the country.
 And the program is rife with fraud and abuse. According to James Mehmet, former investigator for the Health Department's fraud and abuse office in New York City, some 40 percent of all claims in the state are considered questionable, costing taxpayers as much as $18 billion a year. 
Unfortunately, the reform agenda being pushed in Albany focuses mostly on various symptoms of the problem, rather than the problem itself, which is structural. Medicaid is not one program, but 56 different ones operating in the 50 states, Washington and five United States territories. Unlike Medicare, which is entirely a federal program, Medicaid is paid for by both the federal and state governments. 
 Like many other federal initiatives, the program had modest beginnings, with a first-year budget in 1965 of $770 million. This year, it will cost about $330 billion. New York's share of this will be around $45 billion, nearly 14 percent of the total.
 Since states are authorized to supplement federally mandated services and extend eligibility beyond what Washington requires, programs vary greatly, giving states considerable flexibility as they consider ways to fix their ailing programs. New York offers one of the most comprehensive and inclusive programs in the country, spending nearly $10,800 per year per beneficiary. California, by contrast, spends less than half that per beneficiary.
 Through a complicated cost-sharing formula based on a state's average per capita income, federal matching funds cover from about half to more than three-fourths of the states' Medicaid costs. On average, Washington picks up 57 percent of the tab.
 One of Albany's complaints, voiced by Joseph Bruno, the Senate majority leader, and others, is that Washington is shortchanging New York, reimbursing only half of the cost. According to Mr. Bruno, the 50 percent federal share New York receives is lower than that of 37 other states and more than 10 percent below the national average. ''If our United States senators could even get New York up to the 60 percent national average,'' he said, ''we would receive almost $5 billion more.'' 
 Medicaid began as a welfare program, providing basic medical services and hospital care to welfare recipients. Eligibility was restricted to families and households with limited assets and incomes at or below the federal poverty line. Over time, the mission was expanded to cover people with disabilities, elderly nursing-home residents who have exhausted their savings and assets, former welfare recipients and pregnant women, infants and children from households with incomes up to twice the poverty level. No state has been more generous in extending eligibility than New York.
 To fix Medicaid, the program needs to be fundamentally rethought. The only alternatives to such a rethinking involve ending eligibility for thousands of beneficiaries, cutting back on treatments available under the program and demanding more money from Washington at a time when the federal government seeks to provide less. All these options are political nonstarters and would do little to alter the program's structural flaws. 
 Fortunately, states like Colorado, Florida and South Carolina recognize the need to change and have developed a new model that other states could use. Perhaps New York can learn from their experience. 
 Under the new patient-centered approach these states are pursuing, they would no longer pay Medicaid bills directly. Instead, they would give eligible recipients cash grants to purchase health insurance from a range of providers approved by the state through a competitive bidding process not unlike the process used to qualify insurers under the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program. Any part of the cash grant not spent on insurance would be invested in a medical-savings account to cover deductibles and co-payments.
 Such a system would have several advantages. Program participants would be indistinguishable from other insured patients, and therefore doctors, hospitals and clinics would no longer have an incentive to spurn them and would be far less likely to get away with overbilling and other fraudulent charges. Besides, for $20,000 a year -- less than half of what the program now costs the state -- a family of four could purchase a good insurance plan. 
 Because Medicaid beneficiaries would have an incentive to seek the best insurance value for their money, and to work their way into better jobs requiring less assistance, Medicaid's costs could be brought under control. It would be a win-win situation all around.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (86%); FUNDRAISING (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); US WOMEN INFANTS & CHILDREN PROGRAM (77%); FAMILY (77%); POVERTY RATES (76%); HOSPITALS (74%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); MATCHING GIFTS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); CHILDREN (64%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (64%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (60%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (60%); US TERRITORIES (54%) Medicine and Health; Medicaid

PERSON: Louis S Richman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (89%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



43 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Putting Charity Through the 'What's in It for Me?' Test

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
WE must be really good people. By the end of last week, American charities had raised more than $1.4 billion to help survivors of Hurricane Katrina, according to The Chronicle of Philanthropy. The Red Cross said that it alone had received more than $1 billion in pledges and donations. 
 But are we really as selfless as all that? Is our willingness to deprive ourselves to give money to an anonymous refugee simply driven by a disinterested desire to do good? Biologists, psychologists and economists who have studied such acts of goodness say there is more to altruistic behavior than meets the eye. 
For one, altruism isn't an exclusively human trait. Vampire bats are pretty altruistic, too, regurgitating blood for members of the group that haven't eaten. Sterile worker bees, which are incapable of conscious thought, let alone moral behavior, are about as altruistic as a living creature can be: they give their lives so their queen may reproduce.
 And the altruistic impulse in humans is frequently absent in the face of need, which seems inconsistent with selfless goodness. Why does the generosity sparked by events like Katrina fail to appear when it comes to helping the 700,000 African children who die from diarrhea every year for lack of clean water? 
 Kathleen D. McCarthy, director of the Center on Philanthropy and Civil Society at the City University of New York, argued that Americans' response to Katrina had much to do with what she calls the ''but for the grace of God factor.'' The devastation hit so close to home that they could imagine their own living rooms under water. It's harder for them to put themselves in the place of a dying African child.
 The impulse toward goodness, in fact, varies according to circumstance. In an experiment by economists at the University of Chicago, the University of Maryland, the University of Nevada at Reno and East Carolina University, residents of Pitt County, N. C., were asked to contribute to a center to study natural-hazard mitigation, as a response to the devastation caused by Hurricanes Dennis and Floyd in eastern North Carolina.
 Economists found, unsurprisingly, that people were much more likely to contribute when their donations entered them into a lottery in which they could win several hundred dollars. But they also found that contributions of white men rose by a similar rate when beautiful white women were asking for money. 
 In most altruistic acts, there is something in it for the giver. ''At one level, altruism has a selfish component to it,'' said the economist Gary Becker, a pioneer in the analysis of altruistic giving. 
 People get several things from acting altruistically. There's the enlightened self-interest: the needy may feel they are more likely to receive help when they themselves are in trouble. Then there's the inner glow that comes from acting according to one's ideals: be it giving to needy children or to church on Sunday. Having a good deed made known also has its glory, as well as avoiding the stigma of not contributing when everyone else in the congregation, alumni association or social club has. 
 These factors help explain why typically fewer than 1 percent of contributors to a given cause are anonymous, researchers say, or why people love to lug their stuff around in tote bags with the logo of their public radio station. Corporations virtually never give without trumpeting the act in a news release. 
 The selfishness may just be part of our wiring. Biologists were long stumped by altruism in animals because it didn't seem to make evolutionary sense. Creatures like the altruistic vampire bat, it was theorized, would eventually be wiped out of the gene pool because forgoing consumption to aid a fellow in need would reduce their own chance of survival and reproduction. This would leave only selfish bats. 
 But biologists have found that this only appears to be a paradox. They observed that altruistic animals tend to be more helpful with their own family or clan, which have a higher chance of sharing these altruistic genes. Researchers also found that altruistic animals engage in tit-for-tat strategies: generous to those who are generous back, but withholding from the selfish. 
 And, of course, the altruists are usually accompanied by those who prey on them. For example, as Americans reached for their pocketbooks to help hurricane victims, scam artists started phony Web sites to take their money. The thieves were behaving like the cuckoo, which leaves its eggs in the nests of other birds. When the cuckoo chick hatches, it throws the other eggs and chicks out of the nest, and the host parent -- hard-wired to care for chicks -- unknowingly raises the intruder.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 9, 2005

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about motivations of people who donate money included a garbled sentence. It should have read: ''There's the enlightened self-interest: donors give in the belief that if they run into trouble, they will be more likely to receive help.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Retail Donors -- Jarrid Horn, 10, of York, Pa., helped in the hurricane relief effort. (Photo by Bill Kalina/The York Dispatch, via Associated Press)
 Celebrities like Cindy Crawford have made it attractive to assist the victims of Hurricane Katrina. (Photo by Marsaili McGrath/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); CHARITIES (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); ANIMALS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WEATHER (73%); REFUGEES (72%); BIOLOGY (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (65%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Philanthropy; Katrina (Storm); Altruism

PERSON: Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%); YORK, PA, USA (54%); RENO, NV, USA (53%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



44 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: My Brother's Keeper

BYLINE: By Bobbie Ann Mason. 
Bobbie Ann Mason is writer in residence at the University of Kentucky and the author, most recently, of ''An Atomic Romance: A Novel.''

DATELINE: Mayfield, Ky. 

 BODY:

Personal Accounts
 Numbers don't lie, but they can tell different stories. America's 4.9 percent unemployment rate in August was near historic lows, for example, but last year wages for the average American worker (adjusted for inflation) fell for the first time in a decade. Gross domestic product grew by 3.3 percent last quarter -- the 15th quarterly increase in a row -- but median household income remains below what it was in 1999. Corporate profits grew by 6.9 percent in the second quarter, but bankruptcy filings were also 12 percent higher than in the same period last year, when household debt reached a record high. And so on. 
 But how, in this era of killer hurricanes and housing bubbles, are Americans actually doing? To get a more human answer to that question, the Op-Ed page asked writers in different parts of the country to provide snapshots of their local economies over the next year. Here are their initial dispatches.
 ON the Monday after Hurricane Katrina, cars lined up on Broadway, a busy street here in my hometown. Rumors of $4-a-gallon gas sent people straight to my brother's store, Don Mason's Gas-N-Go. 
 ''I sold 5,000 gallons at $2.46, twice as much in six hours as I did on the best day I'd ever had,'' Don told me. ''But the next day was the worst -- I had no gas.''
 Don sells generic gas, and he has had trouble getting it. ''Being unbranded hurts,'' he says. Unbranded usually sells for a bit less than the big names like Shell and BP, but the gas comes from the same place. ''The only difference is their additives,'' he says. 
 When the refineries shut down for Hurricane Rita, allocations to the big brands got priority, Don says. He pays up to 30 cents a gallon more than his competitors do. This week he was selling gas for $2.79 -- it cost him $2.71 -- and the name-brand stations in town were selling for 10 cents less. 
 ''I can't compete if this keeps up,'' he told me. 
 All his life Don wanted to own his own business. After working for Coca-Cola for many years, he finally managed, in 2002, at age 45, to buy a small gas station, a quaint little building that he stocked with snacks from Sam's Club. Business took off, enabling him to build a larger store and quit Coca-Cola. He and his wife, who teaches third grade, had built a new home. Their two sons are grown -- one newly wed and living nearby, the other a student at the local Baptist Bible college. Don's dream of being his own boss was complete. 
 You pump your gas outside, but you have to pay inside so that you can buy stuff and make small talk. The profits aren't in the gas. They're in the junk snacks, light bulbs, cake mix, motor oil, sausage biscuits, Spicy Tater Babies. Don arrives before 6 a.m. to create breakfast for people on the go. On the wall above his milk cooler is a mural of a Holstein cow and a sign from our father's old dairy -- Mason's Dairy Grade A Buttermilk.
 Don's not afraid to risk losing business. When the town considered legalizing alcohol, he slapped a ''Vote No'' sign on his window. And he won't sell lottery tickets. ''They're a tax on poor people,'' he explains. 
 Now the hurricanes have churned and spun many people's dreams. Don is disturbed by the difference between the prices he and his competitors pay.
 ''Last week I ordered a load and got a good price, $2.31 -- good till 6 p.m., but they didn't deliver until 11 p.m., and the price had shot up to $2.65. I'd been selling for $2.59 all day. They jacked up the price because Hurricane Rita was coming, but Rita was still on the other side of the Florida Keys,'' he told me.
 He called the distributor in Paducah, Ky., and the headquarters in Denver but got the runaround. Nobody would discuss the price. ''They can't justify it,'' Don said. 
 In his struggle, he got lucky for a couple of days. He got one load of gas out of Louisville for 21 cents cheaper than he could get it from nearby Paducah, and he got a load of branded gas by mistake -- 40 cents cheaper than unbranded. 
 ''It'll straighten out in a couple of weeks and go back to normal,'' he said. ''Before Rita, prices were going down and I was doing pretty good.'' But the local economy is in a whirl, with a big employer moving out.
 Don said, ''Bush keeps hollering about how good we're doing, but we're not doing any good. I'm not setting the woods on fire, but I'm making it. If people think you're doing good they'll stop by. If you get a new truck, park it out front, and people will think you're doing good. Image is everything.''
 He laughed. ''People want to see you do good. I've lived here all my life. People know me.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustrations by George Bates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); WEATHER (90%); GAS STATIONS (87%); PERSONAL DEBT (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); WRITERS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); HURRICANE KATRINA (69%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (68%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Garages and Service Stations; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Rita (Storm)

COMPANY: SAM'S CLUB (61%); COCA-COLA CO (51%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%)

PERSON: Bobbie Ann Mason; Don Mason

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Mayfield (Ky)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



45 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: City of the Big Gaps

BYLINE: By Luis Alberto Urrea. 
Luis Alberto Urrea, the author of ''The Devil's Highway,'' is a professor of English at the University of Illinois-Chicago.

DATELINE: Naperville, Ill. 

 BODY:

Personal Accounts
Numbers don't lie, but they can tell different stories. America's 4.9 percent unemployment rate in August was near historic lows, for example, but last year wages for the average American worker (adjusted for inflation) fell for the first time in a decade. Gross domestic product grew by 3.3 percent last quarter -- the 15th quarterly increase in a row -- but median household income remains below what it was in 1999. Corporate profits grew by 6.9 percent in the second quarter, but bankruptcy filings were also 12 percent higher than in the same period last year, when household debt reached a record high. And so on.
 But how, in this era of killer hurricanes and housing bubbles, are Americans actually doing? To get a more human answer to that question, the Op-Ed page asked writers in different parts of the country to provide snapshots of their local economies over the next year. Here are their initial dispatches.
 HURRICANE KATRINA blew a young African-American football star to the Chicago suburb where I live.
 It's not just a White Christmas here in Naperville -- it's white all year round. The parking lot of Naperville North High School is liberally larded with BMW's and pop-top sports cars. But A. J. Liddell's race has not affected the city's welcome to him and his family -- the suburbs, too, want to help. That A. J. is a formidable football player has, perhaps, jacked up the enthusiasm. One fundraiser brought in more than $14,000 for his family.
 But few of the hundreds, if not thousands, of poor evacuees now staring at Chicago's formidable towers are likely to enjoy the good fortunes of A. J. Liddell. And that's the larger story of the local economy: that in this era of outsourcing, housing bubbles and budget deficit pay-downs, the traditional Chicago gap between haves and have-nots has eroded into a chasm. 
 We are the city, you will recall, where just over a decade ago more than 700 people died in a heat wave. Read: poor people. Read: poor old people of color. This year, when a potentially deadly repeat was forecast, the news media started to run panicky stories about how to cool yourself down if you didn't have air-conditioning. Think residents of the Cabrini-Green public housing complex sitting in tubs of cold water for eight hours.
 And now, with the cost of gas and heating oil on the rise, there is real worry that a classic Chicago cold snap could cause another tragedy among this same group. Gas prices in the Chicago area have risen this summer by double the usual percentage rate.
 But it's the malaise in the schools that reflects the sharpening of the class struggle during the Bush era.
 The majority of the evacuee children being absorbed here are not going to Naperville North, but to places like the 21 Chicago public schools that have failed to meet state testing standards for six years, putting them in danger of being shut down under the Bush administration's No Child Left Behind law. That's 12 elementary and nine high schools in some of the neediest sections of this city. While the city frantically tries to restructure seven of these schools, it is also paying a consultant $1.5 million to figure out what to do with the other 14. If one of the elements of disaster is financial crisis, imagine the effect of over a million more dollars bleeding out -- before the needs of the new students are met.
 Even in the affluent western suburbs, certain school districts have eliminated mandatory physical education in high school because there is no money for it. Perhaps there should have been another law called ''no child left on his/her behind.''
 This summer, the gap in pupil spending between the haves and the have-nots in Illinois widened substantially, with the top-spending district spending a whopping $19,361 more per student than the lowest-spending districts in the state. That's $4,000 higher than last year and the biggest reported gap in 10 years. You begin to see how education is the canary in this fiscal coal mine. If you can't afford gym, if you can't afford special ed, if you can't afford lunches or books, how will you afford such innovative items as bilingual teachers, or texts, or English as a Second Language classes, or language labs? Housing, counseling, heating oil?
 The City That Works, as we like to call ourselves, does work. The American Dream, I can assure you, works. I come from a dirt street in Tijuana, after all. The eternal problem we must address, not just as a city, but as a nation, is equitable access. How do we make the dream available to as many Americans as possible?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); WEATHER (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (74%); HURRICANE KATRINA (74%); WRITERS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); FUNDRAISING (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (67%); SPORTS (67%); CHRISTMAS (66%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (65%); OIL & GAS PRICES (62%); HEATING OIL PRICES (60%); GASOLINE PRICES (60%); HEATING OIL (50%); SPORTS CARS (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Children and Youth; Education and Schools; Tests and Testing

PERSON: Luis Alberto Urrea; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%) Chicago (Ill); Illinois

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



46 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Revenge of the Cornhuskers

BYLINE: By Richard Dooling. 
Richard Dooling is a screenwriter and the author, most recently, of ''Bet Your Life.''

DATELINE: Omaha 

 BODY:

Personal Accounts
 Numbers don't lie, but they can tell different stories. America's 4.9 percent unemployment rate in August was near historic lows, for example, but last year wages for the average American worker (adjusted for inflation) fell for the first time in a decade. Gross domestic product grew by 3.3 percent last quarter -- the 15th quarterly increase in a row -- but median household income remains below what it was in 1999. Corporate profits grew by 6.9 percent in the second quarter, but bankruptcy filings were also 12 percent higher than in the same period last year, when household debt reached a record high. And so on. 
 But how, in this era of killer hurricanes and housing bubbles, are Americans actually doing? To get a more human answer to that question, the Op-Ed page asked writers in different parts of the country to provide snapshots of their local economies over the next year. Here are their initial dispatches.
 IF new construction is the cardinal symptom of municipal economic health, Omaha has to be in the pink of vigor: $2 billion in new construction in the last five years in a city of fewer than half a million souls. This includes an arena and convention center, a revitalized riverfront with a campus built by the Gallup Corporation, skyscrapers from the First National Bank and Union Pacific, and a $90 million performing arts center opening this month.
 My friend and neighbor, Curtis Christensen (also the city's public finance lawyer), tells me that Omaha pays its bills on time and that's one reason why Moody's and Standard & Poor's give our municipal bonds their top ratings. Even during the Great Depression, pay as you go was the law of the land in Nebraska: in 1932, construction of the Capitol in Lincoln came in under budget (at $9.8 million) and was paid for before it was completed. If we were a country, Go-Big-Red-State Nebraskans would invade Iraq, but only if we had the money to pay for it.
 Our bond rating, says Mr. Christensen, is but one puzzle piece; others are the public and political will to build, and, yes, generous contributions from private wealth. In these parts, private means not just nonpublic, but quiet and invisible. Just as most of the water in Nebraska runs underground in the nation's largest aquifer (the Ogallala Aquifer), most of the money in town is hidden in the accounts of investors, who follow the example of the town's alpha money man, Warren Buffett, and don't flaunt it. Mr. Buffett, who weighs in at $44 billion according to the latest list from Forbes, lives in a modest house in midtown. I don't know where the other two billionaires in town live -- Joe Ricketts of Ameritrade and Walter Scott Jr. of the construction company Peter Kiewit Sons' -- probably in very nice houses that mere dot-com millionaires would deem totally inadequate.
 Omaha also has hundreds of ''original investors.'' They or their parents ''gave a young fella named Warren Buffett a few thousand dollars back in the 70's.'' Now the few thousand dollars are worth 40 kajillion, and the ''original investors'' live down the street, in fiscal anonymity. If they feel the need to throw money around, they do it out of town, and wash their hands afterwards.
 Even our lemons often become lemonade. In 1986, Ken Lay purchased the Omaha-based Northern Natural Gas and, as part of the deal, promised to headquarter his new company here. Months later he merrily broke his promise and took what was to become Enron to Houston, and the rest is infamy. Bruce Rohde, former chief executive of Omaha's ConAgra, was in the news this summer saying what most in town believe: namely, that the Enron debacle could never have happened here, because of the city's business ethics and what can only be called its moral rectitude in fiscal matters.
 The vibrant economy has so far failed to draw crowds. You can still drive anywhere you want in 20 minutes. Many citizens privately resent the perennial attempts of the Convention and Visitors Bureau to attract more tourists with catchy slogans and marketing campaigns; if we wanted to stand in line or sit in traffic, we could spend a weekend in New York, Chicago or Los Angeles.
 Yes, the several dozen insurance companies headquartered here will have to foot their share of this year's hurricane losses. Mr. Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway estimates that it may pay 3 percent to 5 percent of Hurricane Katrina's total insurance bill, or up to $3 billion. Sounds like a lot, but with $40 billion in cash reserves, the original investors appear calm in the storm's wake.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); WEATHER (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); BONDS (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (79%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); HURRICANES (74%); WRITERS (73%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (72%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (72%); HOUSING BUBBLE (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (63%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (50%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Insurance; Katrina (Storm); Rita (Storm)

COMPANY: UNION PACIFIC CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Berkshire Hathaway Inc

TICKER: UNP (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (54%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (54%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (51%) Richard Dooling

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (92%) NEBRASKA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) Omaha (Neb)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



47 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Rocky Mountain Dry

BYLINE: By Pam Houston. 
Pam Houston is the author, most recently, of ''Sight Hound.''

DATELINE: Creede, Colo. 

 BODY:

Personal Accounts
 Numbers don't lie, but they can tell different stories. America's 4.9 percent unemployment rate in August was near historic lows, for example, but last year wages for the average American worker (adjusted for inflation) fell for the first time in a decade. Gross domestic product grew by 3.3 percent last quarter -- the 15th quarterly increase in a row -- but median household income remains below what it was in 1999. Corporate profits grew by 6.9 percent in the second quarter, but bankruptcy filings were also 12 percent higher than in the same period last year, when household debt reached a record high. And so on. 
 But how, in this era of killer hurricanes and housing bubbles, are Americans actually doing? To get a more human answer to that question, the Op-Ed page asked writers in different parts of the country to provide snapshots of their local economies over the next year. Here are their initial dispatches.
 HEW HALLOCK, the editor of The Valley Courier in Alamosa, Colo., comes from a long line of cattlemen who have grazed their stock near Springfield, out on the state's eastern plains. After two years of drought that forced some ranchers to send their cattle to Oklahoma and others to simply sell out, 2005 has been a good year: plenty of rain and high beef prices have allowed for at least temporary sighs of relief.
 But increased gas prices are already affecting where Hew's family can afford to run their cattle and how they market them. ''We can't sustain the current rate of growth in the San Luis Valley and still provide the water people need, and it is agriculture that will pay the price for overuse,'' he told me. ''A hundred and fifty years ago our ancestors came out to Colorado and found a new way to live, and I suppose that is what we'll have to do.''
 Seven thousand feet above sea level, Colorado's San Luis Valley is one of the largest high-desert valleys in the world. Enclosed by the Sangre de Cristo mountains to the east and the San Juans to the west, the valley is home to a community of ranchers and farmers working to preserve a lifestyle threatened by diminishing water tables and rising land and fuel costs.
 A little farther down valley, Colin and Karen Henderson own and operate El Sagrado Farm outside La Jara. On their 300 acres they grow grains, oats, barley, wheat, alfalfa and 20 kinds of certified organic vegetables. ''We are an old-fashioned diversified farm,'' Colin said. ''We are focused on sustainability, on taking care of the land.'' El Sagrado is off the grid, relying on solar, wind, bio-diesel (made from used cooking oil) and horsepower (in the form of two giant Belgians). For 17 weeks each summer the Hendersons feed 43 families as part of a community-supported agriculture farm-share program. 
 ''Farmers have always had to use their ingenuity to survive, maybe now it is just a little bit worse,'' he told me. ''We don't want to be separate in our self-sufficiency, we want to be integral; that is the true definition of community.'' 
 About 200 miles northwest of La Jara, near Montrose, Bob Hasse is raising yaks. ''It is impossible for a ranching family to survive without debt from generation to generation in commodity farming, without borrowing from the future on their land,'' Bob told me. He believes that if ranching is to survive in Colorado it will be with high-end exotics: elk, bison, American Kobe beef and (in his opinion) the far superior yak. He sells yak hides for clothing and furniture, yak skulls to local artists, and yak meat (as low in fat as elk and bison, but higher in omega-3's) to the health-conscious crowd. 
 Bob secured his own financial future by working for years in the business world, but he is concerned for his children and grandchildren: ''To get started in life without help is harder and harder. Even though we are making some money now, I can't afford to hire my kids at a rate of pay they would be interested in; hopefully in the next few years that will be possible.''
 I met Banjo Joe at a fruit stand on the side of the road in Palisade. He said it was a beautiful year for peaches; mostly, he thought, because of prayer. Joe's boss, Peter Forte of Forte Farms, had a dream that there were bees crawling all over him, and after that, Joe said, they knew it would be a bumper crop. 
 Banjo Joe, whose real name is Dan, has been picking peaches in the Grand Valley (nestled between the Book Cliffs and the Grand Mesa, the largest flat-top mountain in the world) since 1972. He identifies himself as the if-it's-broke-then-fix-it guy. Joe doesn't spend too much time thinking about his future or financial security. 
 ''Customers are blessings,'' he said, ''and I try not to let finances blind my eyes. I love peaches. I even wrote a song about them. If we freeze out early in the year I have to prune people's yards all winter just to live. Being a farmer is like going to Vegas. You either win or you have a lot of time to play the banjo.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); DROUGHT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (86%); PERSONAL DEBT (79%); FOOD PRICES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); WEATHER (74%); WRITERS (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (72%); HOUSING BUBBLE (72%); GRAIN FARMING (71%); BEEF (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (71%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (69%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); MISC GRAIN FARMING (68%); BIOFUELS (63%); DESERTS (50%) Livestock; Weather; Drought; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Cattle

PERSON: Pam Houston

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (94%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Colorado; San Luis Valley (Colo)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



48 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
DIBNER, DAVID

 BODY:
 DIBNER--David. On Wednesday, September 28, 2005, David Dibner, accomplished businessman, philanthropist and civic leader, died unexpectedly at his home in Wilton, CT. Mr. Dibner, who was Chairman of the Dibner Fund, a family foundation, and former Chairman of the Burndy Corporation, was 78 years old. Mr. Dibner had a long and distinguished career. After serving in the navy in WWII, he trained as an engineer at Columbia University and continued with post-graduate studies at the London School of Economics. In 1968 he attended the Advanced Management Program at Harvard University. In his more than 30-year career at the Burndy Corporation, a leading multinational manufacturer of electrical and electronic connectors and tools, he rose from engineer to chairman of the board. Mr. Dibner was also an exceptional and committed civic leader. In Wilton, the community where he and his wife, Frances Kessler Dibner, resided for 53 years, he spearheaded and chaired the building of the Wilton High School, as well being chair and an active board member of the Norwalk Hospital. His involvement extended to business, academic and philanthropic sectors: he was a founding member of the American Business Conference and an active trustee of Polytechnic University in Brooklyn. He also served on the boards of Columbia University School of Engineering, the American Technion Society and was a member of the Committee for the Humanities at MIT. In addition, he was a fellow of the Aspen Institute and a member of the Council on Foundations. 
In 1989, following the death of his father, Bern Dibner, Mr. Dibner assumed responsibility for the Dibner Fund, a family philanthropy, and the Burndy Library, one of the world's outstanding collections of rare books, manuscripts, incunabula and objects in the field of the history of science and technology. Together with his wife Frances and with support of the Dibner Fund, Mr. Dibner established the Dibner Institute for the History of Science and Technology, a center for advanced study located along with the Burndy Library on the campus of MIT. In addition to the Fund's deep commitment to scholarship in the field of history of science and technology, Mr. Dibner oversaw the Fund's national and international grantmaking in science education, humanitarian aid, the environment, peaceful coexistence, Jewish heritage and culture, and local community organizations. Mr. Dibner was an avid gardener and landscaper. His hobbies included woodworking, sculpting, sailing, hiking, and travel. He deeply loved the American west for its history, art, indigenous culture and landscape. Above all else he was a loving and devoted husband to his wife of 55 years. He was a proud and loving father to his sons and daughters-in law: Brent and Relly (Wolfson) Dibner, Daniel and Victoria (Clark) Dibner, and Mark and Rachel(Zax) Dibner. He was an adored and loved by his grandchildren, Gil, Tal, Carmel, Aurora, Avalon, Bern, Sage and Skye. A memorial service will be held in the near future. In lieu of flowers, the family asks that donations be made in Mr. Dibner's memory to the Norwalk Hospital Foundation, the Wilton Volunteer Ambulance Corps or a charity of personal choice. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOUNDATIONS (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); ENGINEERING (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); CHARITIES (90%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); WORLD WAR II (71%); LIBRARIES (69%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (69%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (63%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (63%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (62%); JEWS & JUDAISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BURNDY CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); AMERICAN BUSINESS CONFERENCE (55%); AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR TECHNION-ISRAEL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%); ASPEN INSTITUTE (54%); COUNCIL ON FOUNDATIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



49 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: October 2, 2005

 BODY:


		Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	1	2	131	THE DA VINCI CODE, by Dan Brown. (Doubleday, $24.95; special illustrated edition, $35.) A murder at the Louvre leads to a trail of clues found in the work of Leonardo and to the discovery of a secret society.		 	 	 	2	3	14	THE HISTORIAN, by Elizabeth Kostova. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) A young woman's quest to learn the truth about her father's life and her mother's death involves research into Vlad the Impaler and Dracula. 		 	 	 	3	1	3	POLAR SHIFT, by Clive Cussler with Paul Kemprecos. (Putnam, $26.95.) Kurt Austin must contend with the leader of an antiglobalization group who possesses technology that has the potential to destroy all of humanity.		 	 	 	4		1	THUD!, by Terry Pratchett. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) As the anniversary of the battle of Koom Valley approaches, tensions between trolls and dwarfs mount. Part of the Discworld series.		 	 	 	5	4	4	POINT BLANK, by Catherine Coulter. (Putnam, $25.95.) Dillon Savich and Lacey Sherlock -- F.B.I. agents as well as husband and wife -- pursue a violent couple.		 	 	 	6	8	3	THE WIDOW OF THE SOUTH, by Robert Hicks. (Warner, $24.95.) After the Battle of Franklin in 1864, a Tennessee woman turns over her plantation to Confederate troops for use as a hospital -- and also as a cemetery.		 	 	 	7		1	ON BEAUTY, by Zadie Smith. (Penguin Press, $25.95.) Personal and cultural battles between two academic families.		 	 	 	8	7	5	CHILL FACTOR, by Sandra Brown. (Simon & Schuster, $25.95.) A successful magazine editor is trapped in her remote cabin with a man believed to be a serial killer.		 	 	 	9	9	3	SLOW BURN, by Julie Garwood. (Ballantine, $25.95.) Terrible mishaps befall a successful businesswoman in Charleston, S.C.		 	 	 	10	6	2	LIPSTICK JUNGLE, by Candace Bushnell. (Hyperion, $24.95.) Three women struggle to balance their high-powered jobs and their messy home lives.		 	 	 	11	5	2	HIGH DRUID OF SHANNARA: Straken, by Terry Brooks. (Del Rey/Ballantine, $26.95.) Accompanied by a dwarf and an elven princess, Pen Ohmsford must save his aunt from exile; the final volume of a fantasy trilogy.		 	 	 	12		1	SHALIMAR THE CLOWN, by Salman Rushdie. (Random House, $25.95.) A former American ambassador to India is murdered by his Kashmiri Muslim driver.		 	 	 	13	10	4	WITHOUT MERCY, by Jack Higgins. (Putnam, $25.95.) An American intelligence agent and his British counterpart swear vengeance against an international terror ring that has killed one of their number.		 	 	 	14	11	10	LIFEGUARD, by James Patterson and Andrew Gross. (Little, Brown, $26.95.) Things go awry when a lifeguard at a Florida resort agrees to take part in a heist.		 	 	 	15	14	24	THE MERMAID CHAIR, by Sue Monk Kidd. (Viking, $24.95.) On Egret Island, off the coast of South Carolina, a married woman is strongly attracted to a monk.		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	1	1	24	 THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50.) A columnist for The New York Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy and presents an overview of globalization trends.		 	 	 	2	2	17	1776, by David McCullough. (Simon & Schuster, $32.) An account of America's founding year by the Pulitzer Prize-winning author, focusing on the inexperienced George Washington and heroic citizen soldiers. 		 	 	 	3	3	23	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $25.95.) A maverick scholar applies economic thinking to everything from sumo wrestlers who cheat to legalized abortion and the falling crime rate.		 	 	 	4	4	36	BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) The author of ''The Tipping Point'' explores the importance of hunch and instinct to the workings of the mind.		 	 	 	5		1	A MAN WITHOUT A COUNTRY, by Kurt Vonnegut. (Seven Stories, $23.95.) Autobiographical essays and observations from the author of ''Slaughterhouse-Five.''		 	 	 	6	5	11	100 PEOPLE WHO ARE SCREWING UP AMERICA, by Bernard Goldberg. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) The author of ''Bias'' takes aim at ''Hollywood blowhards,'' ''America bashers,'' rappers and others.		 	 	 	7	6	8	NEW RULES, by Bill Maher. (Rodale, $24.95.) The comedian and host of ''Real Time With Bill Maher'' takes on everyone from President Bush to Bob Dylan.		 	 	 	8	7	7	THE FAIRTAX BOOK, by Neal Boortz and John Linder. (ReganBooks/HarperCollins, $24.95.) A radio talk show host and a United States congressman call for the abolishment of the federal income tax and the I.R.S.		 	 	 	9	8	2	BAIT AND SWITCH, by Barbara Ehrenreich. (Metropolitan/Holt, $24.) The author of ''Nickel and Dimed'' explores the world of white-collar job hunting.		 	 	 	10	13	2	THE TENDER BAR, by J. R. Moehringer. (Hyperion, $23.95.) A memoir of a fatherless boy for whom the regulars at a Long Island saloon become family.		 	 	 	11		1	WHERE GOD WAS BORN, by Bruce Feiler. (Morrow, $26.95.) The author of ''Walking the Bible'' travels 10,000 miles through the heart of the Middle East.		 	 	 	12		1	THE SHAME OF THE NATION, by Jonathan Kozol. (Crown, $25.) A look at the steady, insidious resegregation of America's schools.		 	 	 	13	11	12	CONFESSIONS OF A VIDEO VIXEN, by Karrine Steffans. (Amistad/HarperCollins, $24.95.) A tell-all by an actress who has appeared in many hip-hop videos.		 	 	 	14	9	27	ON BULL, by Harry G. Frankfurt. (Princeton University, $9.95.) A philosopher attempts a theoretical understanding of a ''vast and amorphous'' phenomenon.		 	 	 	15	10	2	THE GAME, by Neil Strauss. (ReganBooks/HarperCollins, $29.95.) Two years among pickup artists.		 	 	 	16*		1	MOTHER ANGELICA, by Raymond Arroyo. (Doubleday, $23.95.) A biography of the nun who founded the Eternal Word Television Network.		 	 	 	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Sept. 17, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MURDER (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); HISTORY (76%); WOMEN (76%); FAMILY (75%); FANTASY LITERATURE (73%); HOMICIDE (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (66%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

PERSON: DAN BROWN (89%); JAMES PATTERSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); KASHMIR (79%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (51%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2005



50 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; INDUSTRY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Katrina Rachets Up Local Sugar Production

BYLINE: By JEFF GROSSMAN

 BODY:
ANTHONY SINAPI didn't pay particular attention to a recent bill for sugar until asked to compare it with past ones. The price had jumped $7 per 100-pound bag, and his bakery in Hartsdale, Sinapi's, can go through two tons of it a month.
 ''Thank God you brought that to my attention,'' he said when asked about the invoice. ''I manufacture Italian ices, too. Thank God the season's over, or else I would have been hitting skyrocket prices here.'' 
Mr. Sinapi is feeling the pinch of a nationwide sugar shortage. Supplies were already scant over the summer because the federal government, which controls production levels across the country, underestimated demand for the year. Then prices took another hit when American Sugar Refining Inc., the Yonkers-based manufacturer of Domino Sugar, lost one of its largest processing plants in Hurricane Katrina. 
 ''We're not going to be able to replace all that productive capacity,'' said Donald Brainard, the company's vice president for human resources. The damaged refinery, in Chalmette, La., can turn out 900,000 tons a year. It will be brought back to that level in phases, but it remains unclear how long the repairs will take. 
 To make up for the shortfall in the meantime, production has been stepped up in Yonkers, in Baltimore, and at a plant in Crockett, Calif., that American Sugar Refining bought in August. The refining company is owned in turn by Florida Crystals Corporation, which has headquarters in West Palm Beach, and by a cooperative of Florida sugar-cane growers. ''We will be able to replace, by increasing operations at our other locations, a percentage of the Chalmette output,'' Mr. Brainard said. ''It's anybody's guess -- 20 percent, 25 percent, 30 percent -- it's certainly not going to be anywhere near the full productive output of Chalmette.'' 
 Locally, work schedules have been increased, even though the plant was already in use around the clock. Mr. Brainard estimates that the Yonkers plant can bolster production levels by 10 to 15 percent.
 Paul Rusignulo, 44, a packaging specialist who until recently lived in Louisiana, is one of a few key employees who have been temporarily relocated to Westchester. ''I'm sure I'll be doing a lot of the same work, plus whatever else I can get my hands on,'' he said. ''I like to live and learn.'' 
 All Chalmette employees, relocated or not, are being paid salary and benefits, and the company is providing emergency housing in a barge tied up alongside the refinery in Chalmette. When Mr. Rusignulo returns to Louisiana, he says, he plans to live in a trailer at the Chalmette refinery until his house in St. Bernard Parish can be demolished and rebuilt.
 Despite the pressures created by the extra workload, said Fred Gaffney, who has worked at the Domino plant since 1982, the change has been a boon for Yonkers union workers, who represent about 60 to 70 percent of the work force at the plant. 
 Mr. Gaffney, who represents the local sugar division of the International Longshoremen's Association, explained that the 205 unionized workers at the refinery went on strike from December till June. About 65 of them were laid off after the strike, he said, and their unemployment benefits expired in the last week of August. But since the hurricane, almost all of those who had not found jobs elsewhere have been rehired temporarily.
 ''I just hope the company comes around and thinks that we need to keep them here, and open up some more jobs,'' he said.
 But though Katrina has helped workers at the refinery, retailers like Bea Ebinger, owner of Bea's Cakes in Armonk, are fearing even higher prices. Ms. Ebinger says she bought enough sugar in August to carry her through several weeks, because September is traditionally a busy month. 
 ''It's like gasoline,'' she said, ''but gasoline you can only hold so much. Sugar you can. Now that it's a nice, dry, cool time of year, you can hold it in a cool dry place.'' 
 Her strategy for future purchases: ''If the price is reasonable, I'll just buy a lot more to get me through a couple of months instead of just one month.'' But she acknowledged that even a slight change in the price could have a big impact on her business. ''Whether it's butter or eggs or sugar or flour, things that you're using in large volume, it can really change your bottom line quite significantly by a few pennies on a pound, because you're using so many pounds of it,'' she said.
 The United States Department of Agriculture establishes in advance the amount of sugar each processor can sell in a year, said Ron Sterk, an assistant editor for Milling and Baking News, a Kansas City-based trade magazine. The production year runs from October through the end of September. The department's low forecast of demand this year, he said, led to national shortages despite several increases to the quota. The hurricane, which also damaged a refinery owned by the Imperial Sugar Company, only added insult to injury. 
 As for passing on the increases to the customer, Ms. Ebinger said she would wait to see where prices leveled off before she thought about that. ''There are people who are already getting burned at the gas pump,'' she said. ''Here in town, our local businesses are really trying to help the customers shop locally and save gas. I'm keeping my prices the same. I'll absorb that bit to maintain my customers.'' 
 Mr. Sinapi feels differently.
 ''Especially with the gas going up, and I do a lot of wholesale, it makes sense to raise a little bit of everything,'' he said. ''Everybody's got to take a hit. I can't take it on my own.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: American Sugar Refining, the manufacturer of Domino Sugar, has stepped up production at its Yonkers site after Hurricane Katrina damaged its plant in Chalmette, La. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUGAR MFG (91%); SUGAR FARMING (89%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); BAKERIES (77%); HURRICANES (73%); HURRICANE KATRINA (73%); PLANT CAPACITY (73%); TROPICAL STORMS (73%); WEATHER (73%); RELOCATIONS (69%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (69%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (68%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (64%) Sugar; Production; Refineries; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm) ; Sugar; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: AMERICAN SUGAR REFINING INC (83%); FLORIDA CRYSTALS CORP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: American Sugar Refining Inc; Florida Crystals Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS311314 CANE SUGAR MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2062 CANE SUGAR REFINING (83%); NAICS111930 SUGARCANE FARMING (66%)

PERSON: Jeff Grossman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Yonkers (NY); Chalmette (La); Louisiana; New Orleans (La); Mississippi ; Gulf of Mexico

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



51 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 10-02-05; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 2219 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg's City

BYLINE: By James Traub. 
James Traub writes often for the magazine about New York City politics.

 BODY:
On a brilliant Sunday afternoon last month, Mayor Michael Bloomberg came to Lenox Avenue in Harlem to march in the annual African-American Day Parade. As he and his supporters prepared to step out into the street, a phalanx of marchers led by Fernando Ferrer, Bloomberg's Democratic challenger in the coming mayoral election, appeared behind him. Ferrer was flanked by leading black figures, including the Rev. Al Sharpton, gadfly and provocateur. Suddenly the rivets began to pop on the mayor's smoothly machined schedule. The parade organizer bizarrely, but very insistently, demanded that Bloomberg march alongside his own challenger. The mayor, flushed, said, ''I'm here to march with my friends.'' Harlem is not friendly territory for a white Republican officeholder. Was there a racial subtext? It wasn't clear. The crowd grew denser and more turbulent, squeezing Bloomberg and his entourage to the edge of the street. ''Run, Freddy, run!'' came the cry from behind. The mayor, throttled, sidelined, stood with his arms crossed for five, six, seven minutes and said. . .nothing. He said absolutely nothing, and the incident, the nonincident, melted away. 
New Yorkers tend to recall their recent political history as a series of epic confrontations, most of them with a strong racial component. In 1986, whites in the Howard Beach neighborhood in Queens chased and beat three black men, one of whom fled into the path of an oncoming car, was struck and died; in 1991, the Crown Heights area of Brooklyn spun out of control after a black child was killed by a car driven by a Hasidic man; in 1999, police officers shot and killed Amadou Diallo, an immigrant from Guinea who made the mistake of reaching into his pocket. It would not be correct to say that there have been no such incidents since Michael Bloomberg became mayor four years ago, but it is true that none have been raised to iconic status. This mayor has achieved something that few of his predecessors would even have strived for: he is the master of the nonevent.
 Perhaps it's not surprising that a politics of anticlimax emerged from the smoking ruins of 9/11, which took place the morning of the primary elections in 2001. The zero-sum squabbling that constituted the bass line of city politics suddenly seemed inane and self-serving. Fernando Ferrer, then pursuing the Democratic nomination, toned down the racially loaded rhetoric of ''the other New York.'' And Bloomberg, a billionaire entrepreneur who until that moment had conducted an inept campaign for the Republican line, suddenly seemed appealing precisely because he stood so far outside the city's political culture. Bloomberg offered himself as a technocrat, a management consultant for an eight-million-employee corporation with terrible short-term prospects. At the time, he said to me, ''I'm not arguing that my background makes me suitable to win; I'm arguing that my background makes me suitable to govern.''
 And yet 9/11 also seemed to have transformed the meaning of ''govern'' in a way particularly unsuitable to Bloomberg. In the two months between the terrorist attacks and the election, Rudolph W. Giuliani, the incumbent, ruled over the city the way Churchill had over England in the early days of World War II. Giuliani's emotional bond with New Yorkers, his air of indomitable command, offered brittle citizens a saving sense of reassurance. Neither in Bloomberg, a cool rationalist who seemed to live inside a cushioned corporate bubble, nor in his opponent, Mark Green, who defeated Ferrer in a runoff amid ugly, business-as-usual accusations of racial foul play, did that inner flame of authority seem to burn bright. In an article headlined ''No-Fun City,'' I approvingly quoted an urban scholar to the effect that New York needed a ''Colin Powell figure.''
 Obviously, it did not get one. The new mayor had the aversion to large public gestures of a man who had previously been accountable only to bankers, lawyers and accountants. He was rhetorically disabled. Bloomberg wasn't even a New Yorker; his Boston accent rendered ''last'' as ''lahst'' and ''half'' as ''hoff.'' He had neither the ethnic authenticity of a Giuliani or an Ed Koch nor the aristocratic grace of a John Lindsay. He was a businessman in a city whose elites held the species in very low regard. And he seemed to have only the haziest idea of how to translate business principles into the act of governing. During a campaign news conference, I heard him make the odd argument that New York was losing teachers in record numbers because ''when you walk down the street and someone says, 'Who do you work for?' and you say, 'the New York Police Department' or 'the Board of Education,' people, unfortunately, don't say, 'Hey, you're doing a fantastic job.' '' That, he said, is the mayor's job.
 But it turned out that New York's case of post-traumatic stress syndrome was very short-lived. Citizens didn't want a daddy, and they didn't want Churchill; they wanted someone to fix the schools and keep the streets safe and the subways running, just the way they always did. Bloomberg was elected because he seemed more likely than his opponent to continue Giuliani's policies, as he promised he would. At the same time, his nonpartisan, managerial approach to governing offered a kind of antidote to his predecessor. Even many people who welcomed the Giuliani blunderbuss had come to find his tenure exhausting. Determined to yank big-government liberalism up by its roots, Giuliani had staged nonstop confrontations with school officials, city watchdogs, policy advocates, reporters and, of course, minority leaders. The confrontations may have been indispensable to his achievements, but they had also rubbed the city raw long before 9/11.
 As mayor, Bloomberg has confronted when he had to, describing the Board of Education, which he wished to abolish, as ''a rinky-dink candy store,'' but has otherwise practiced the arts of enlistment and inspiration. Mark Green now says of the mayor, ''I've always thought his greatest asset is that he's a non-Giuliani.'' This is a bit too dismissive; you don't build a multibillion-dollar enterprise just by handing out lollipops. But the contrast with Giuliani is unmistakable. When Bloomberg calls on reporters, he addresses them as ''Sir'' or ''Madam,'' which, while a bit starchy, is quite a change from his often belittling predecessor. And City Hall no longer feels like a moated fortress, as it once did. When I called Diana Fortuna, the president of the Citizens Budget Commission, to ask about Bloomberg's record, the first thing she said was, ''We talk to his commissioners all the time.'' Giuliani so despised the organization that he once tried to strong-arm businessmen into avoiding its annual dinner.
 These are good times in New York. The real estate boom has left renovated factory buildings and brasseries in its wake and kept the city's coffers at least temporarily filled. Tourists, delighted by the safe streets, are coming in record numbers. New immigrants are finding jobs, albeit low-paid ones, and revitalizing marginal neighborhoods. Downtown Brooklyn is becoming a major nexus of business and culture. New York University and Columbia are flourishing. Unemployment has dropped to 5.1 percent from 6.8 percent over the last year. 
 But the good fortune doesn't feel as solidly founded as it did in the late 90's. Nothing does, of course; the terrorists put an end to skylarking optimism. But even New Yorkers who don't worry about the apocalypse know that you can't build an economy on real estate prices. The city's economic base is getting narrower as factories close and jobs in finance move elsewhere. What happens when the bubble bursts?
 It is, of course, a positive sign in itself that New Yorkers worry about the future rather than the present. The volatile compound of race, crime and public order, which has given a thermonuclear dimension to city politics for much of the last 40 years, is largely absent today. This is arguably Bloomberg's greatest achievement. Besides doing his best to co-opt potential troublemakers like the Rev. Al Sharpton, Bloomberg also had the good sense to appoint a very talented police commissioner, Ray Kelly, and then to leave him alone. By embracing, and improving on, the crime-fighting strategies he inherited from the Giuliani years, Kelly has reduced New York's crime rate, already far below that of other major cities, another 20 percent. And he has done so without the paramilitary style that alienated so many of the minority citizens who were themselves the chief beneficiaries of the improvements in public safety.
 Bloomberg also succeeded where his predecessor failed by persuading state legislators to grant him full control over the city's vast and refractory school system. Bloomberg has said again and again that he wants to be held ''accountable'' for the schools. And now that fourth-grade test scores have risen, he can lay claim not only to political courage but also to wise policy. Eighth-grade scores, however, remain abysmal. Moreover, Joel Klein, the mayor's education chief, imposed on the schools a progressive ''child centered'' reading curriculum, which according to a group of highly regarded reading specialists, ''puts beginning readers at risk of failure.'' (A more traditional program was later added in a small number of schools.)
 One peculiarity of Bloomberg's time in office is that he has suffered much more trenchant criticism from the right than from the left (though this is a problem any New York Republican would be happy to live with). In ''The Prince of the City,'' an admiring biography of Giuliani, the historian Fred Siegel describes Bloomberg as a ''liberal paternalist'' who has surrendered, inch by inch, the hard-won gains of the Giuliani era. The argument seems hyperbolic, for Bloomberg has faithfully pursued his predecessor's policies on such core issues as crime and welfare. Nevertheless, Bloomberg was a Democrat, and a member in good standing of the city's liberal elite, until he switched parties in order to win the 2001 nomination. And many of his instincts did not change with his party affiliation. Giuliani faced a towering deficit when he took office, and he chopped it down to size by shrinking the size of government, enraging traditional liberals and public-employee unions. Confronted with the same problem, Bloomberg borrowed funds and pushed through an 18.5 percent increase in the property tax. His supporters describe this as an act of courage, since the mayor was sticking it to middle-class homeowners who have been lightly taxed as a matter of political prudence; conservatives argue that Bloomberg was piling more dead weight on the city's already crushing tax burden. Bloomberg has described New York as a ''luxury good'' for which businesses and citizens are willing to pay a premium, a view that the city's fiscal watchdogs consider dangerously nonchalant. The city's finances may deteriorate soon: a $4.5 billion deficit is projected for the 2006 fiscal year. Bloomberg has yet to explain how he will whittle down that sum without resorting to new taxes.
 Neither, however, has his Democratic opponent. Fernando Ferrer has argued that the deficit can be substantially reduced by targeting waste, fraud and abuse -- a claim that gives financial experts pause. Though Ferrer has not quite revived the rhetoric of ''the other New York,'' he describes Bloomberg as a complacent mogul who pursued the West Side football stadium megaproject to benefit a ''wealthy developer friend'' while ordinary New Yorkers endure unemployment, poor schools and inadequate health care. Ferrer has proposed levying a special $1 billion annual tax on stock transfers for four years to raise money for the schools, a new effort to secure health insurance for half a million uninsured New Yorkers and an $8.5 billion multiyear program to build and renovate 167,000 units of housing, 30 percent of it for low- and moderate-income families. These proposals have obvious appeal in a city where so many citizens are poor and dependent on the state; at the same time, they form the kind of staggeringly ambitious agenda that gives credence to Siegel's argument that Giuliani's small-government gospel has left little trace on the city's political culture.
 And what of Bloombergism? Is there a political future in managerial competence -- or at least in a default-liberal type of managerial competence? In 2003, Bloomberg had to abandon a quixotic and solitary effort to make city elections into nonpartisan contests; New York's palate, habituated to the sugar rush of sniping and billingsgate, may be too jaded for the nutritious but flavorless brand of technocratic politics he represents. Save it for Phoenix, Gothamites might say. Or perhaps not: in a country where ideological division perpetually teeters on the brink of theological warfare, New Yorkers may come to cherish the paradoxical idea that they, of all people, have learned to practice the politics of the nonevent.

 Do you approve or disapprove of the way Michael Bloomberg is handling his job as mayor? The chart shows the Mayor's approval rating is just below (65-64%) where it was on 2/6/02. Source: The Quinnipiac University Poll. (CHART BY 5W INFOGRAPHIC)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bloomberg's Democratic opponent describes the mayor as complacent. (Photographs by Platon for the New York Times)Chart: ''REVERSAL OF FORTUNES''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARADES & MARCHES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MAYORS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); MEN (71%); SHOOTINGS (64%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%); AL SHARPTON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



52 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: Emergency Spending As a Way of Life

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
IF brevity is eloquence, President Bush and Congress set a new standard of brilliance after Hurricane Katrina.
 In approving Mr. Bush's request for $51.8 billion in emergency assistance, Congress passed a three-page law with fewer than 700 words.
 Here are the details: $1.4 billion would go to the military, $400 million would go to the Army Corps of Engineers and $50 billion would go for anything else tied to what was described only as ''disaster relief.'' 
 Even in the United States, $50 billion is a lot of money to allocate with just two words. But many lawmakers now assume that the final federal bill for Katrina will shoot well past $100 billion, and that would come on top of comparable emergency spending for the continuing war in Iraq.
 The problem facing Mr. Bush and the Republican-controlled Congress is not the cost of Katrina itself. The problem is that, even before Katrina, Congress and the White House had lost their grip on the budget.
 In the last few years, huge chunks of the federal budget have been channeled through emergency supplemental bills. Part of that money was for natural disasters, but a much bigger part of it was for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and counterterrorism efforts from Uzbekistan to Africa. The budget is also packed with fiscal time bombs -- Medicare prescription benefits, tax cuts and health care costs for veterans -- that are set to explode in the next few years. 
 The good news is that the budget deficit declined in the 2005 fiscal year, which ended Sept. 30, to about $330 billion from $412 billion in the previous year. Tax revenue rose 15 percent, partly because of a big increase in corporate profits and partly because a major tax break for business expired last year.
 The bad news is that overall outlays keep climbing briskly, propelled by Medicare, Medicaid, farm subsidies, normal military spending and spending on the war.
 In theory, emergency spending bills are for one-time, unforeseeable calamities. In practice, Mr. Bush has financed the entire war in Iraq, as well as the war in Afghanistan, with emergency supplemental requests that totaled $248 billion over the last three years. With no sign yet of a troop reduction in Iraq, the costs are likely to exceed $80 billion in 2006.
 Emergency spending on natural disasters has shot up as well. Though no one would have budgeted for a calamity like Katrina, many budget experts have long called for a ''rainy day fund'' to cover at least some of the calamities that will occur.
 ''We don't know exactly what's going to happen, but we know something is going to happen,'' said Representative Jeb Hensarling, a Texas Republican. ''These are natural disasters, but they shouldn't be unanticipated.''
 Mr. Hensarling is one of a small group of House Republicans who have pushed their own party leaders, mostly without success, to adopt tougher controls on the budget. 
 Mr. Hensarling and other fiscal conservatives recently proposed offsetting the costs of Katrina with spending cuts. To save $30 billion, they called for a one-year postponement of the Medicare prescription drug program, which is to take full effect next year. They also called for rescinding $25 billion in lawmakers' pet projects contained in a $286 billion transportation bill passed this summer.
 But Republican leaders rejected those ideas. Mr. Bush, who declared that rebuilding the Gulf Coast would ''cost whatever it costs,'' has recycled proposals to kill about 150 programs. But those measures would save only about $9 billion.
 ''There just is no vision for limited government,'' said Representative Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican. ''We are on track to set a very dangerous precedent that it's the federal government's role to make everyone whole after a natural disaster.''
 Mr. Flake was among the very few lawmakers who voted against the transportation bill, complaining that it was loaded with 6,500 projects that were specifically demanded by individual members of Congress.
 ''We've had very little support from the leadership on budget rules,'' Mr. Flake continued. ''We've even given away the rhetoric. We've replaced the 'Freedom to Farm' bill with the 'Farm Security Act.''' The first one cut price supports. The second one increased them.
 Mr. Bush has done little to slow the spending. He has yet to veto a single bill, including the transportation bill, which will cost $30 billion more than he initially demanded. 
 The Bluedog Coalition, a group of conservative House Democrats, called last week for a bipartisan meeting to discuss a post-Katrina budget.
 ''The response to the disaster has just been to open up the wallet and dump it out,'' said Representative Dennis Cardoza, Democrat of California and leader of the Bluedogs. 
 But Democrats insist that sacrifice has to come from tax increases as well as spending cuts. They have called for a return to ''Paygo'' rules, which existed in the 1990's and required Congress to pay for new programs and tax cuts with savings in other areas.
 Most Republicans, including the self-styled fiscal conservatives, object to any such restrictions on tax cuts. Republicans hope to extend tax cuts worth $70 billion over the next five years, even as they cut programs like Medicaid, farm subsidies and welfare payments by $35 billion.
 Permanently extending all of Mr. Bush's tax cuts from 2001 and 2003, a top Republican goal, would cost about $1.4 trillion over the next 10 years, plus interest.
 On top of that is the cost of fixing the alternative minimum tax, which was intended to prevent rich people from taking too much advantage of tax deductions. Because the alternative tax is not adjusted for inflation, it ensnares millions of additional families every year. 
 Mr. Bush had said he would deal with the problem this year through a sweeping overhaul of the tax code. But tax reform has been delayed until at least next year, and many Republican lawmakers simply want to abolish the alternative minimum tax without making up for lost revenue.
 That would cost about $30 billion just for next year and as much as $1 trillion over the next 10 years, according to estimates by the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation.
 Even in the United States, that's a lot of money.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The National Guard delivered supplies Friday to Jasper, Tex., which was recovering from hurricane damage. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)Chart: ''Another Way to Pay''In the last five years, Congress has gone outside the normal budget process to pay for disaster relief as well as the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and counterterrorism programs.Graph tracks supplemental budgetary spending (military and non-military) since 2001.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MEDICARE (88%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); HURRICANES (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); ARMIES (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (65%); COUNTERTERRORISM (65%); TERRORISM (65%); MEDICAID (55%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (57%)

PERSON: JEB HENSARLING (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); UZBEKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



53 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: If It Looks and Feels Like a Drought, Is It?

BYLINE: By APRIL RABKIN

 BODY:
FEDERAL meteorologists have sent mixed signals as to whether the state had a drought this summer. Some areas had plenty of rain, others almost none. But Ledyard Lewis, a farmer in North Stonington, doesn't need an official ruling. He knows a drought when he feels one.
 ''You pick it up in your hand and it's just like sawdust,'' Mr. Lewis said about his corn crop. ''If this isn't a drought, I don't know what is. We went July 8 to September with no rain.''
His corn has been hit hard. The stalks have grown to a height of only 8 feet, down from a high of 12 feet, and, worse, the ears are puny. 
 Storms in the middle of last month came too late for farms in the central and eastern parts of the state. Conditions there are so bad, with rainfall just a fraction of normal, that agriculture officials in the state are planning an emergency meeting later this month to discuss the dry conditions and gather damage estimates. 
 It would then be up to Gov. M. Jodi Rell to ask the head of the United States Department of Agriculture to declare a drought disaster in the state. Such a designation would qualify farmers for federal aid, much of it in low-interest loans. Governor Rell said last month that the state would look into the dry conditions.
 ''It may seem odd to be announcing this on the first rainy day we have had in weeks, but drought conditions are a real possibility,'' Mrs. Rell said in a statement. ''The extended lack of rainfall over the past few weeks and the long-term forecast for below average rainfall has me concerned.''
 While the State Department of Agriculture said it could not estimate how much money the dry conditions have cost farmers, the farmers themselves have a good idea. Mr. Lewis wouldn't give a dollar figure, but said his income would be down 25 percent. Peter Charter, a farmer in Ellington, estimated his damages at $4,000 to $5,000. Clark Woodmansee, a farmer in Preston, estimated his crop loss at $15,000. And Ned Ellis of Hebron said he had lost between $10,000 to $20,000.
 The drought particularly hurt dairy farmers by coinciding with the thirstiest months for corn, from tasseling through ear development. Tasseling is when the strings for pollination grow at the top of the stalk. The development of the ears follows and continues until the harvest.
 Farmers use the corn to feed their cows. They chop the stalks and ears into what is called silage. Much of this year's silage will be stored and used as feed later this year and into next summer. Many farmers will buy grain from out of state and use surpluses from previous years to get through the shortage. 
 Mr. Ellis said his farm produced 17 to 18 tons of corn silage per acre this year, down from the usual 22 tons. He said the stalks grew to a decent height because rainfall was normal until July. Then the rain stopped, the stalks withered and the ears did not fill out. They have smaller diameters and many are half the normal length.
 Mr. Woodmansee said he just harvested his worst crop ever.
 ''We didn't get much second or third crop of hay,'' he said. ''Everything's just dried up.''
 The drought has also made it more difficult to get water to livestock, especially dairy cows, while they are in pasture because many wells and ponds have run dry. Mr. Lewis was hauling water in his pickup truck to 100 beef cows -- 300 gallons a trip, three trips a day. Mr. Ellis's dairy cows have been searching for water at their usual watering holes, some of which have become muddy because of the lack of rain. Several cows became stuck in the mud in August and one died. 
 ''I've never seen it this bad,'' Mr. Ellis said. ''The fertilizer fellow wasn't even recommending people put it on. For a fertilizer dealer not to recommend it, that tells you how dry it is.''
 Mansfield, in Windham County, for example, saw only 0.34 inches, compared to the average of 3.9 inches in August, said Joyce Meader, a dairy and livestock teacher with the Cooperative Extension System of the University of Connecticut. In July, it received 1.18 inches, versus the average 3.8 inches.
 In contrast, one of the wetter counties was Litchfield. It received 2.81 inches in July, compared to the average 4.9 inches, but 4.38 inches in August (average 4.74 inches), according to Janet Fisher at the Northeast Regional Climate Center at Cornell University. All of Connecticut, she said, received 4.21 inches in July and 1.92 inches in August, compared to averages of 4.19 and 4.39 inches. 
 Despite the experiences of farmers, meteorologists in most cases have not called the dry conditions a drought. Online maps of the United States Drought Monitor, which tracks drought conditions, showed that there was a drought in Connecticut for just one week in mid-September; the rest of the summer was just ''abnormally dry.''
 But Nicole Belk, a hydrologist at the National Weather Service in Taunton, Mass., said that Connecticut is indeed suffering from a drought.
 ''A large part of Connecticut is in meteorological and agricultural drought,'' she said.
 She added that in the next few months, closer-to-normal precipitation is likely to relieve the drought.
 William Simpson, a weather forecaster at the service in Taunton, said rainfall deficits may get lost in the averages. 
 ''Numbers can lie,'' Mr. Simpson said. ''We could get five inches in one day and it could all flow off, whereas a few inches spread out over weeks will percolate more.''
 John Breakell, state executive director of the Farm Service Agency of the federal agriculture department, has another explanation for the confusion about whether it is a drought.
 ''They weren't big wide storms,'' Mr. Breakell said. ''They were little cells.
 ''A tremendous downpour might dump an inch one place and not at all up the road. That's one reason why they had such a different effect across the state.''
 In New London, Marsha Jette, the county executive director with the Farm Service Agency, said lots of farmers reported cows dying in the heat.
 ''Milk production was way down,'' she said, and ''vegetables were cooking on the vine.''
 Nancy Welsh, the executive director with the Farm Service Agency for Middlesex and New Haven counties, said crop damage was exacerbated by heavy rainstorms in June that brought in diseases. ''It caused the crop to just die, no matter what they sprayed,'' she said. ''Then we went into dry conditions, so stuff they replanted just shriveled up and died.''
 For most dairy farmers, Ms. Meader said, ''It's not going to be easy.'' To make matters worse, economists predicted that the price of milk will fall, she said.
 The state has less than 200 dairy farms, with an average herd size of 113 cows. Dairy is the largest agricultural business here in terms of land use. Nursery and garden supply, the largest business in terms of income, felt the drought's impact less, Ms. Meader said.
 Many farmers also count on selling their surpluses for income. 
 Mr. Charter in Ellington said his hay yield is 30 to 40 percent less than normal. 
 ''We usually sell the surplus hay, and this year there's no surplus to sell,'' he said. 
 He said he hoped the federal government would declare his county a disaster area and send aid. But farm aid takes many months, he said.
 Two weeks ago, the fields got an inch and a half of rain, he said.
 ''But the season's over,'' he said. ''It is what it is.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: ''I've never seen it this bad,'' Ned Ellis, a Hebron farmer, said of the dry conditions. His corn silage crop is down 4 to 5 tons per acre. (Photo by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 The cows at Ned Ellis's dairy farm feeding on corn silage. Rain in mid-September came too late to help this year's crops. (Photo by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DROUGHT (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); METEOROLOGY (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); CORN FARMING (78%); DAIRY FARMING (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (55%)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



54 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE BACK PAGE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Abortion Might Outgrow Its Need for Roe v. Wade

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND

 BODY:
WITH the confirmation last week of John G. Roberts Jr. as chief justice of the United States, eyes turned to President Bush's next judicial nominee, who, on a closely divided court, may determine the fate of Roe v. Wade, the 1973 decision that recognized a woman's right to an abortion. But such speculation overlooks a paradox in the abortion wars: while combatants focus on the law, technology is already changing the future of abortion, with or without the Supreme Court. 
 Even if the court restricts or eliminates the right to an abortion, the often-raised specter of a return to back-alley abortions is not likely to be realized, said Dr. Beverly Winikoff, president of Gynuity Health Services, a nonprofit group that supports access to abortion. ''The conditions that existed before 1973 were much different than what they are in 2005,'' she said. ''We have better antibiotics now and better surgical treatments.'' 
But no change is bigger than the advent of an inexpensive drug called misoprostol, which the federal Food and Drug Administration approved for treatment of ulcers in 1988, but which has been used in millions of self-administered abortions worldwide. If the Supreme Court overturns Roe v. Wade, freeing states to ban abortion, this common prescription drug, often known by the brand name Cytotec, could emerge as a cheap, relatively safe alternative to the practices that proliferated before Roe. 
 ''We won't go back to the days of coat hangers and knitting needles,'' said Dr. Jerry Edwards, an abortion provider in Little Rock, Ark. ''Rich women will fly to California; poor women will use Cytotec.'' 
 Because it was never intended for use in abortions, it has not been widely tested for safety and effectiveness.
 In 2000, researchers at three obstetrics and gynecology clinics in New York noted that low-income immigrant women were already using misoprostol as an alternative to going to an abortion clinic, because it was easier and less expensive. They got the pills from doctors, pharmacies, relatives and from contacts in other countries. 
 The drug causes the uterus to contract and, if the contractions are strong enough, to expel the embryo or fetus. In the United States, misoprostol is typically used off label with the abortion drug RU-486 in non-surgical abortions and in some surgical abortions. A spokeswoman for Pfizer, which sells misoprostol under the name Cytotec, said the company does not comment on off-label use. Last year, Americans filled 365,000 prescriptions of misoprostol for ulcers, according to IMS Health, a pharmaceutical consulting firm. 
 A dose sufficient to cause an abortion costs less than $2, said Dr. John K. Jain, an associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the University of Southern California, who has performed limited clinical trials of abortions using misoprostol alone. He said he found that it was effective 80 to 90 percent of the time, if administered by a doctor. This is slightly lower than its effectiveness in combination with RU-486. 
 Misoprostol is usually used in the first trimester, but under clinical conditions, Dr. Jain and other researchers say it has been used safely and effectively in the second trimester. Women taking it on their own risk greater rates of failure and higher side effects, including nausea, vomiting, diarrhea and fever and chills. 
 Carrie Gordon Earll, a senior analyst of bioethics at Focus on the Family, which supports a reversal of Roe v. Wade, said the existence of new technologies like misoprostol should have no bearing on the law. 
 ''The law operates as a teacher in a moral sense,'' regardless of people's opportunity to break it, she said. ''Even if you have some people who get a drug off the black market and sell it to women, that doesn't mean we don't have a policy to discourage abortion.''
 In Brazil, where abortion is banned except in rare circumstances, misoprostol is the method of choice for up to 90 percent of all abortions, said Alessandra Chacham, a professor of sociology at the University of the State of Minas Gerais, who studies reproductive health in Brazil. In the late 1980's and early 1990's, she said, pregnant women started to spread the word, because the drug's label warned that it could cause miscarriages. Compared with illegal abortions using other methods, the rate of infection with misoprostol was 12 times lower, researchers have found. But researchers at the University of Rio de Janeiro reported that they also found that among babies born with certain birth defects, a high percentage of the mothers used misoprostol. When the government in response restricted access to misoprostol, drug smugglers created an illegal black market, Ms. Chacham said. 
 But American women may not be as receptive, said Norma McCorvey, who in 1973 was known as Jane Roe, the woman who brought the case that legalized abortion, but who has since argued for the reversal of the court's decision. 
 ''When women start using these self-induced drugs, and start seeing body parts in their potty, they're going to go bananas,'' Miss McCorvey said. ''And it's going to be horrible.''
 Dr. Jain said researchers still need to learn more about what happens when the drug doesn't work. Currently, if women fail to terminate a pregnancy using RU-486 and misoprostol, they still have a surgical abortion. But if abortion were illegal, many of these women might carry to term. ''Data suggest it causes birth defects, including facial paralysis and limb defects,'' Dr. Jain said. ''It's hard to quantify, but yes, there probably is a risk.''
 And widespread use of misoprostol could have another unintended consequence, said Mitchell Creinin, director of family planning at the University of Pittsburgh, who has run clinical trials on the drug. In Brazil, if women have problems with the drug, they go to the hospital to be treated for miscarriage. If women in the United States start using misoprostol for abortions, Dr. Creinin said, ''someone going through a miscarriage is going to be looked at suspiciously, like, 'Did you do something?''' 
 Dr. Creinin added that ''compared to when abortion was illegal before Roe, misoprostol is still safer.'' But as with any illegal drug, there is a period of elevated risk before users discover the proper dosages and protocols. If abortion became illegal, he said, ''If I were a woman, I'd rather go to Brazil than Mississippi, because at least there they've learned how to do it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Misoprostol, or Cytotec, an ulcer drug that also induces abortions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (95%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (89%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (89%); OFF LABEL DRUG USE (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); APPROVALS (73%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); DRUG SAFETY (72%); CLINICAL TRIALS (72%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (72%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (72%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); US FDA APPROVALS (69%); PRODUCT LABELING (67%); ANTIBIOTICS (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); NEWS BRIEFS (65%); PHARMACIES (65%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Abortion; Misoprostol (Drug); Ulcers; Cytotec (Drug)

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (56%); IMS HEALTH INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (82%) Food and Drug Administration; Supreme Court (US)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (56%); PFEB (BRU) (56%); PFE (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%) John Leland

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



55 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION: G.O.P. BLUES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: Just a Really Bad Stretch? 

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
IN 1927, Secretary of Commerce Herbert Hoover engineered such a spectacular government response to the Great Mississippi River Flood that he propelled himself to the presidency a year later on a platform of compassionate competence. His failure to face the disaster of the Great Depression with comparable finesse led to 20 years in the presidential wilderness for his Republican Party.
 Democrats can only dream that Republicans might suffer a similar epochal setback, based on President Bush's bad few months, sagging leadership scores and fitful first response to Hurricane Katrina. The latest polls actually show his approval rating bouncing back. But Mr. Bush, who was first elected as a compassionate conservative, whose presidency found purpose in his response to the Sept. 11 attacks and who won re-election on his strength as a wartime leader, has suffered all the same, on terms he himself set.
Successful Republicans from Fiorello H. LaGuardia to Rudolph W. Giuliani, from Dwight D. Eisenhower to Mr. Bush and his father, have long sold themselves on a combination of incorruptibility and good management. Mr. Bush likes to note that he is the first president with an M.B.A. degree, and he pledged to run a C.E.O.-style administration. So his early stumbles on Katrina have redounded with particular force. And they are being magnified by a flurry of unrelated allegations against Republican leaders in Congress. 
 ''The problem is once you set yourself up as competent, it's a very fragile reed,'' said Richard Norton Smith, executive director of the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum in Illinois and a biographer of Hoover and another Republican, Gov. Thomas E. Dewey of New York. ''Obviously, Hoover's was disproved and Dewey never got the chance. And Jimmy Carter, too, the ferociously competent engineer that he was, came to grief. The law of unintended consequences, far more than the Constitution, is what governs the modern presidency.''
 Tectonic shifts in American politics take time -- often a long time. It took two decades of New Deal, Fair Deal, World War II and the dawn of the cold war for the Democrats to be vulnerable to Republican cries of ''Twenty years of treason!'' It took another 50 years for the party of the working man to be caricatured as the party of the windsurfer, with Roosevelt Democrats becoming Reagan ones along the way. It took more than a century for the Republicans to morph from the party of Lincoln into the party of the ''Southern strategy'' and states' rights. 
 The punditry and poll readings of any bad week, month or even year are an unreliable guide to the long-term fortunes of politicians and movements with the residual strengths -- personal, financial and institutional -- that Mr. Bush and the Republicans possess. In 1983, some prominent party voices were predicting doom for Ronald Reagan in the face of recession and high unemployment, only to see him re-elected in a landslide the following year.
 But even the invincible Mr. Reagan, never a stickler for details, was nearly undone by the Iran-contra scandal in his second term, rebounding after a thorough housecleaning and his history-making embrace of Mikhail Gorbachev. 
 Today, Mr. Bush is ensnared in a daunting war in Iraq, and by high gas prices and economic unease at home. And he is being challenged by some in his own party on the reconstruction costs of Katrina.
 Mr. Bush's troubles are amplified by those of his counterparts on Capitol Hill. The Republicans took control of Congress 11 years ago in part on the argument that Democrats had become sloppy and self-dealing after 40 years of majority rule, but they are now facing the same accusations. Indeed, last year, allies of Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the House majority leader -- anticipating the campaign-finance indictment that forced him to step aside last week -- changed the rules requiring leaders to relinquish their posts while fighting criminal charges, before a public outcry made them reverse field.
 Forget Lord Acton's dictum about absolute power corrupting absolutely, said Steven F. Hayward, a scholar at the conservative American Enterprise Institute. The current situation, he said, ''reminds you of that old Who lyric: 'Meet the new boss, same as the old boss.''' 
 But Mr. Hayward added that the philosophical divide between the two major parties remains real, and he speculated that the Republicans' troubles could mean a revival of the phenomenon that found its voice in 1992 with Ross Perot -- though perhaps this time from inside the party with a maverick like Senator John McCain. 
 ''There's a strain of opinion that's conservative but not ideological or partisan, that finds deficit spending and the sort of out-of-control growth of government to be a deeply troubling issue,'' he said. ''With divided government, both parties had their fingers on that, but now the Republicans control everything.'' 
 Still, the mere assertion of the House Democratic leader, Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, that the Republicans were ''crumbling'' seemed unlikely to make it true. On the contrary, they and the White House are girding for a fight, and redistricting has further reduced the number of competitive House seats, cementing the Republicans' electoral advantage in the way their financial edge has held since Nixon. 
 Meantime, Congressional Democrats lack the galvanizing ideas that have driven Republicans for a decade, and they remain divided, as shown by Senate Democrats' dead-even split last week over the nomination of John G. Roberts Jr. to be chief justice.
 Former Senator Warren B. Rudman, a New Hampshire Republican and onetime chairman of the ethics committee, said he believed his party's troubles were transitory. He expressed confidence that an inquiry into the sale of stock from a family-founded company by the blind trust of the Senate majority leader, Bill Frist of Tennessee, would come to naught.
 ''We don't know how any of these things will turn out,'' Mr. Rudman said. ''I don't think the party has suffered any permanent damage, but that's not to say it couldn't.''
 The National Review Online editorialized after Katrina that the administration could only redeem its missteps with a performance ''more in keeping with the G.O.P.'s image as the 'daddy party,' the party of competence that can be trusted in times of crisis.'' Mr. Bush may have begun doing that with his swift response to Hurricane Rita.
 Paul C. Light, an expert on the federal bureaucracy at New York University, said that Republicans have enjoyed a historical edge in public opinion polls on questions of which party was best able to manage the government. Although the Democrats closed the gap in the boom times of the Clinton administration, Mr. Bush opened a wide advantage again after Sept. 11, 2001, before sputtering this summer. 
 Richard P. Nathan, co-director of the Rockefeller Institute of Government at the State University of New York at Albany and a veteran of the Nixon administration, noted that as far back as the Eisenhower era, the Republicans have presented themselves as ''the party that knows how to get the right business leaders, and manage smart, and make the government smart.''
 ''It's much easier to achieve your objectives administratively than battling them out in the Congress,'' Mr. Nathan said, ''but what you've got to do is appoint really smart, competent, savvy people who share your values. What I think is demonstrated now is not that that's a wrong idea, but it was executed all wrong by just having hack people.'' 
 ''Management is a dull business,'' he added, ''but once people have a sense that you don't have a fig of a notion about how to do it, that can be hurtful.''

 could and didn't, it's not their fault, it's not their fault.''

''You cannot read a newspaper without the gloating and the happiness with which the mainstream press is reporting the president's approval numbers."
 (Bill Marsh/The New York Times)

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: ''Blame Game''When failures made the disaster in New Orleans worse, everybody found fault with somebody. And the fingers haven't stopped pointing. Last week, Michael Brown, the former head of FEMA, had his turn in a Congressional hearing. Here is a sampling of notables and their views.MICHAEL BROWN, FEMA, FEDERAL AGENCIES''It's the responsibility of faith-based organizations, of churches and charities and others to help those people.''GEORGE W. BUSH''To the extent that the federal government didn't fully do its job right, I take responsibility.''RUSH LIMBAUGH''The anthem of the self-loathers. ... You can never blame victims. You can never blame the poor. ... Even those who didn't get out of New Orleans, it's not their fault. Even those that

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HURRICANES (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WEATHER (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); RIVERS (73%); COLD WAR (66%); WRITERS (64%); LIBRARIES (50%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%) United States Politics and Government; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (84%) Congress (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RUDY GIULIANI (57%); JIMMY CARTER (57%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (54%) Todd S Purdum; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (73%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



56 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1665 words

HEADLINE: For Corzine, Senate Record Shows Loyalty To the Left

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

DATELINE: TRENTON, Sept. 30 

 BODY:
Shortly after taking office in 2001, Senator Jon S. Corzine ruffled a few political feathers when he suggested that the ''timid progressivism'' of the centrist Democratic Leadership Council, which helped send Bill Clinton to the White House, had contributed to ''paralysis on fundamental concerns such as health care, gun safety, the environment and educational opportunity.''
 ''If we begin to negotiate from the middle,'' he wrote in an article in The Nation, ''the end result inevitably takes us to the right of where I believe our nation should be.''
Now, as Mr. Corzine, a candidate for governor of New Jersey, approaches what could be his final months in the United States Senate, perhaps the most remarkable part about his five-year tenure in Washington is how faithful he has been to the liberal principles he espoused in that article.
 He has pushed for universal health care and stringent gun laws. He was one of only 23 senators to vote against the use of force in Iraq, one of 34 opposed to the ban against what critics call partial-birth abortion and one of 22 who voted to reject Judge John G. Roberts Jr. as chief justice of the Supreme Court. He has also clashed with the Bush administration on tax cuts, trade and Social Security. 
 With a ranking from The National Journal as the sixth most liberal Senator in 2004, Mr. Corzine embodies a kind of nouveau New Deal belief that a government driven by populism but not averse to capitalism can still help the vulnerable and the voiceless. 
 To Republicans, his tax-and-spend reflexes make him an irrelevant extremist who lacks the fiscal discipline needed to be an effective governor. They also joke that Mr. Corzine has accomplished little, other than getting resolutions approved honoring the Nets and the Devils.
 ''I'm being somewhat facetious,'' said Douglas R. Forrester, Mr. Corzine's opponent, during a news conference this summer. ''Can Senator Corzine do anything? I don't know.''
 In terms of personal style, at least, members of both parties generally agree that Mr. Corzine is amiable and diligent. He has also reached across the political divide, on occasion, to work with conservative Republicans.
 Whether his experience in Washington proves to be relevant in Trenton remains to be seen. He would move from being a junior member of the minority party to become the top executive in a strongly Democratic state, in charge of the most powerful governor's office in the country.
 ''When you're a member of the minority, you can't get anything accomplished, so you become a firebrand, you make bold statements, you become morally outraged,'' said Ross K. Baker, a political science professor at Rutgers University. ''But that's a luxury you don't have as governor, because property taxes is not something that lends itself to ideological argument.'' 
 Mr. Corzine is a member of the Senate committees on banking, intelligence, energy and budget. Not surprisingly, Mr. Corzine, a former co-chairman of Goldman Sachs, the Wall Street investment banking and securities firm, has focused heavily on corporate ethics and consumer protection.
 When the Enron scandal exploded, Mr. Corzine was one of the few senators who grasped the intricacies of what happened. So he helped draft legislation that eventually led to the Sarbanes-Oxley package of corporate reforms.
 ''It's got the name of the two chairmen, but Corzine had a lot to do with that legislation,'' said Sen. Paul S. Sarbanes, Democrat of Maryland. ''He's very smart, he's very knowledgeable, and he's been a very strong defender of consumers and investors and making sure that business does things properly and ethically.''
 In 2003, he worked with Senator Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana, on the Wage Tax Cut Act, which would have reduced payroll taxes for a year to stimulate the economy. But like many bills sponsored by members of a minority party, Mr. Corzine's bill went nowhere.
 Mr. Corzine has been on the same wavelength as President Bush on measures to help end the marriage penalty and expand the child tax credit. But over all, he has agreed with Mr. Bush only half the time in the last two years, making him one of the president's leading dissenters, according to Jennifer Duffy, an analyst for The Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan newsletter.
 Republicans like to trumpet the number 133 -- as in, the 133 votes that they say Mr. Corzine cast in favor of higher taxes. They also point to a recent study by the conservative National Taxpayers Union that found that Mr. Corzine proposed $441 billion in new spending in the Congressional session of 2003 and 2004, more than any other senator during the same period.
 ''He's just one of these rich guys who like to raise taxes on other people, because taxes don't mean that much to him,'' said Grover G. Norquist, president of the conservative advocacy group Americans for Tax Reform.
 And not just rich, Mr. Norquist added, but predictable. ''Corzine is a lazy liberal,'' he said. ''As far as I can tell, he's voted party line and path of least resistance, so you don't know what he thinks.''
 But Mr. Corzine's scorecard with the National Taxpayers Union, based on votes to cut spending, loosen regulations and oppose higher taxes, is actually better than those of most Democrats. In 2004, only six of the Senate's 45 Democrats received higher scores than Mr. Corzine's 19 percent mark -- meaning that Mr. Corzine was considered a little less hostile to a conservative tax philosophy than the average Democrat.
 The 133-vote figure is a bit misleading, too, because some votes were on procedural measures, and others were actually votes for Democratic proposals to cut taxes that were smaller than Republican proposals. Mr. Corzine, meanwhile, counters that he has voted 70 times for tax cuts, primarily geared toward the middle-class.
 On the issue of homeland security, Republicans criticize Mr. Corzine for being one of only 16 Senators to vote against ending a Democratic filibuster over the creation of the Department of Homeland Security, largely because of objections from organized labor to relaxed civil service rules. 
 Democrats, though, note that as part of the airline bailout package after the Sept. 11 terror attacks, Mr. Corzine worked with former Sen. Peter G. Fitzgerald, Republican of Illinois, to give the government the right to obtain an equity interest in commercial airlines in exchange for loan guarantees. So far, the government has acquired a portfolio worth $116 million in airline stock as a result, according to Brookly McLaughlin, a spokeswoman for the Department of Treasury's Air Transportation Stabilization Board. 
 After 9/11, Mr. Corzine was one of the earliest proponents of legislation to strengthen security around chemical plants. In addition, he helped change some of the criteria used in awarding the $7 billion federal Victim Compensation Fund to 9/11 families.
 ''He was a very, very substantive guy, and I was enormously impressed with him,'' said Kenneth R. Feinberg, a Washington lawyer who was tapped by Mr. Bush to be the fund's special master. ''Whereas most of our elected officials did not want to become lightning rods by being present at meetings, Senator Corzine walked right into the lion's den and stood with the families in urging me to increase the awards.''
 Mr. Corzine took on a high-profile role as the head of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee in the 2004 elections. But the Republicans gained four seats, solidifying their control of the Senate and defeating Sen. Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the former majority leader. Still, Ms. Duffy of The Cook Political Report said that Mr. Corzine had been dealt a bad Election Day hand, with the losses occurring in states that voted strongly for Mr. Bush.
 Yet Mr. Corzine has not shied away from his ideological adversaries. He recently co-sponsored legislation with Senator Rick Santorum, Republican of Pennsylvania, to set up children's savings accounts by providing newborns $500, and another $500 for low-income families.
 With Senator Sam Brownback, Republican of Kansas, he shepherded legislation earlier this year through the Senate to place sanctions against those deemed responsible for the genocide in Darfur. And though that bill has not yet passed the House, the two Senators helped pass legislation that secured tens of millions of additional dollars for African Union peacekeepers.
 Mr. Corzine's own money, however, has been more problematic.
 He faces two complaints before the Senate Ethics Committee, both filed by two New Jersey lawyers and political activists. 
 One claims that Mr. Corzine violated Congressional financial disclosure rules by neglecting to report that he had given a $470,000 mortgage to the head of a major state employees union, who also happened to be his girlfriend, and later forgave the loan.
 The other centers around a vote that Mr. Corzine cast in March 2004 on a complex tax treaty between the United States and Japan. That treaty featured a tax break for a small group of investors -- Mr. Corzine being one -- who had invested in foundering banks backed by the Japanese government. Mr. Corzine said that he was unaware of the financial implications of his vote, but he appears to have saved about $5 million.
 Mr. Corzine has denied any impropriety in either of those cases.
 For all of the scrutiny of his Senate record, many political analysts say that a Governor Corzine may be less predictable than a Senator Corzine, because of the political differences between small-bore Trenton and big-picture Washington.
 ''New Jersey is a state where parochial interests can put a lot of pressure on local officials, no matter how much vision they have,'' said Jeff Tittel, director of the New Jersey chapter of the Sierra Club, who said he worried that Mr. Corzine's ''stellar environmental record'' might be compromised by local realities. ''That's going to be the internal and personal struggle for Corzine as governor.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 11, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Oct. 2 about Jon S. Corzine's record in the United States Senate referred imprecisely to the benefits he received as an investor in foundering banks backed by the Japanese government, a financial dealing that is the subject of an ethics complaint against him. Mr. Corzine and his fellow investors earned $5 million as a result of their investment, according to records, but he said he received no tax breaks on top of that.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey and Barbara Boxer of California spoke last March against the president's plan to revamp Social Security. (Photo by Jamie Rose for The New York Times)(pg. 39)Chart: ''Jon Corzine's Senate Record''Here are some of Senator Jon S. Corzine's votes in the Senate, and ratings on major issues by several advocacy groups.VotesFORImporting prescription drugs from CanadaExtending assault weapons ban for 10 yearsIncreasing tax deductions for college tuitionAGAINSTBan on late-term abortionsDrilling in the Arctic National Wildlife RefugeCentral American Free Trade AgreementRatingsLABOR: 100% -- by the AFL-CIOENVIRONMENT: 88% -- by the League of Conservation VotersEDUCATION : 85% -- by the National Education AssociationCIVIL LIBERTIES: 62% -- by the American Civil Liberties UnionBUSINESS: 47% -- by the United States Chamber of CommerceFREE TRADE: 42% -- by the CATO Institute(Sources by National Journal
 OnTheIssues.org)(pg. 39)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TAX LAW (72%); HEALTH CARE LAW (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); GUN CONTROL (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (61%); ABORTION (52%) Elections; Governors (US); Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: CATO INSTITUTE (59%) Senate (US)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (94%); BILL CLINTON (88%); BARBARA BOXER (58%); JOHN ROBERTS (50%) David Chen; Jon S (Sen) Corzine

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%); ARCTIC (79%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



57 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 68

LENGTH: 7973 words

HEADLINE: The Buckley Effect

BYLINE: By Sam Tanenhaus. 
Sam Tanenhaus, the editor of The New York Times Book Review, is writing a biography of William F. Buckley Jr.

 BODY:
Forty years after it was decided, the mayoral race of 1965 remains one of the most memorable elections in New York history. It was also one of the strangest, thanks in large part to the candidacy of William F. Buckley Jr. It was odd enough that Buckley, author, magazine editor, columnist, debater and gadfly -- with no experience in practical politics -- should have sought this most thankless of jobs. Odder still that his campaign style invited comparisons with Oscar Wilde, Evelyn Waugh, Noel Coward and Mort Sahl. But oddest of all was that he was taken seriously -- seriously enough to confound opponents, observers and analysts and throw the election up for grabs. Although it wasn't clear at the time, Buckley's bid for office was an important chapter in one of the crucial events in modern political history, the transformation of the consensus politics of the peak cold-war years of the 1950's and early 60's, its agenda set by liberals, into the more polarized politics of our era, ruled by conservatives. 
Today, when the right is synonymous with the Republican Party and the party itself synonymous with ideological unity and organizational punctilio, it is easy to forget that the ascendancy of ''movement conservatism'' came only after a brutal intraparty conflict, waged over the course of decades, in which (to borrow each faction's vocabulary for the other) ''leftists'' and ''me too'' Republican elders tried to fend off a mounting insurgency of ''extremists'' and ''crackpots.'' 
 The most articulate voice of that insurgency was Bill Buckley, the founding editor (in 1955, at age 29) of National Review, the New Right's flagship journal of ideas, opinion and advocacy. With its mix of authoritarian anti-Communism, free-market libertarianism and staunch opposition to civil rights legislation, National Review sowed the ideological seeds that blossomed in the 1964 presidential candidacy of Barry Goldwater, who had wrested the nomination from the G.O.P. establishment's standard-bearer, Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York. It was the movement's first great triumph, but it ended in disaster. Goldwater suffered one of the most lopsided defeats of all time, leaving Republicans more divided than ever. Moderates were convinced that the party's salvation lay in a move to the center, while conservatives believed Goldwater's defeat was merely a setback on the road to eventual victory. 
 It was in this context that Buckley made his own improbable leap into elective politics. He entered the mayoral race with no sure sense of who would take him seriously. Most of Goldwater's votes had come from the Deep South and other areas that shared conservatism's longstanding enmity toward big East Coast cities. Beyond that, leaders of the right had historically defined themselves as defenders of Main Street values and heartland allegiances. How could a New York candidate stay true to those ideals and at the same time plausibly address the city's bewilderingly complex problems and its patchwork voter base? To campaign in New York as an authentic conservative required, to some extent, redefining what modern conservatism meant -- or what it might mean. At the very least, it required tuning Goldwater's message to a distinctly urban key. Buckley was confident that there were conservatives in New York. And he would be proved right. He was also confident he knew who they were. There he turned out, like so many others, to be wrong. 
 From the beginning, his 1965 campaign felt like an experiment, an improvisation. ''It was late in May, and the idea came to me very suddenly,'' Buckley, who will be 80 in November, recalled recently in an e-mail message following up a lunch conversation we had about the race. The incumbent, Robert F. Wagner Jr., a Democrat, looked unlikely to seek re-election after three exhausting and frustrating terms capped by spiraling deficits, a race riot (in the summer of 1964) and a water shortage so severe it would result in the city's being declared a national disaster area for the first time in its history. In his syndicated column, On the Right, Buckley offered some thoughts on the election and the task facing its winner. 
 ''You and I are not in fact running for mayor,'' he wrote. ''But suppose we were? What might we -- assuming, like Cincinnatus, that we were to put down our plowshares and come to the aid of the City -- suggest?'' He proceeded to list shorthand solutions to 10 urgent problems, including crime (either lock up teenage felons or make their parents legally responsible for them), drugs (legalize them for adults), welfare (cut off everyone but invalids and mothers ''looking after children 14 years or younger'') and schools (no more busing to achieve racial integration). The column was reprinted in National Review, with a front-cover teaser that read ''Buckley for Mayor,'' intended as a joke and, for the most part, received as one.
 But it was taken seriously by at least two readers: Kieran O'Doherty and J. Daniel Mahoney, brothers-in-law and co-founders of the statewide Conservative Party of New York, a three-year-old organization with only 8,700 members. Veterans of the 1964 Goldwater crusade, the pair wanted not to weaken the New York State G.O.P. as much as to steer it toward a firmer alignment with a conservative base already established in the Midwest and Sun Belt. The Conservative Party of New York sometimes endorsed Republican candidates, but more often O'Doherty and Mahoney fielded their own slates headed by little-known loyalists. The point was not to win elections. It was to advance what Buckley, a member of the Conservative Party's brain trust, called ''the root premises of the Republican philosophy of government'': anti-union, pro-business, prostates rights, pro-individualism. 
 In 1965, Buckley and his allies felt that case needed to be made more strongly than ever. L.B.J., at the peak of his strength, was turning the Beltway into what conservatives saw as a hatchery of enormous giveaways, his Great Society programs all rubber-stamped by a compliant Congress dominated by Democrats, with Republicans vying to outdo them. In the spring and summer, Congress approved two massive federal outlays: for a new program, Medicare (which included a 7 percent increase in Social Security cash benefits), and also a $1.3 billion school-aid bill. Liberals in both parties exulted in this display of consensus. But to conservatives it appeared that the two-party system was in danger.
 And nowhere was that more evident than in New York, where the mayoral campaign had yielded up an attractive new candidate, the liberal Republican John V. Lindsay, a popular Manhattan congressman who had decided to shift his ambitions from Washington to City Hall. Lindsay stood high on the conservatives' list of heretics. His voting record in Congress had earned him an 85 percent rating from the Americans for Democratic Action, which put him to the left of many Democrats. He had been among those who turned their backs on Goldwater even after Goldwater won the nomination. As a mayoral candidate, Lindsay was omitting the word Republican from much of his campaign literature and was assiduously courting the Liberal Party, whose endorsements, normally given to Democrats, had often tipped the balance in close elections.
 Buckley was further distressed that Lindsay's heterodoxy was being endorsed by Republican satraps, including Rockefeller, who reportedly dangled a $500,000 personal campaign loan, and Senator Jacob K. Javits, who would soon become co-chairman of Lindsay's campaign. The bandwagon also included Ray Bliss, the newly installed chairman of the Republican National Committee, and Richard M. Nixon, who was figuring the factional calculus as he positioned himself for the 1968 presidential election. Eventually Dwight D. Eisenhower, the last Republican president, would announce his support, too.
 The reason was electability, so often the first concern of a struggling party looking to climb back into contention. Lindsay had major vote-getting power. At age 43, 6-foot-4, athletic, Kennedy-handsome, educated at St. Paul's, where he rowed, and then Yale, he had represented Manhattan's East Side ''Silk Stocking'' district since 1959. His advocacy of progressive causes had won him many admirers. More appealing still were his eye-opening re-election margins. Even in 1964, when Republicans nationwide had absorbed a drubbing, Lindsay had retained his seat with a remarkable 71.5 percent of the vote. Now ''The District's Pride -- The Nation's Hope,'' as his campaign literature called him, stood poised to cure the party of lingering Goldwaterism. ''He was being fawned on as a meteoric presence in civilized Republican politics,'' Buckley, speaking of Lindsay, told me not long ago. ''There was talk of him as a presidential candidate.''
 Lindsay's entry into the race was a national event. He announced his candidacy in all five boroughs in a single day, sounding the call to reverse New York's ''decline and fall'' in tones of mingled idealism and pragmatism. Borrowing a page from Fiorello La Guardia, the last Republican elected mayor, he proclaimed himself a ''fusion'' candidate who could unite a broad spectrum of voters, Democrats and Republicans, sick of machine politics, of cronyism and waste, of clubhouse accommodations, of mediocre self-interest.
 Buckley, determined to stop or at least expose Lindsay, began looking for a candidate to run on the Conservative line. He knew it might lead to a Democratic victory, but he saw that as a far better outcome than for liberal Republicanism to be revalidated as a serious force in American politics. When he couldn't find a credible candidate who was interested in running, the task fell to Buckley himself. ''I helped found this party,'' Buckley would soon explain to the journalist Theodore H. White, who covered the campaign for Life magazine. ''This is my jury duty.'' Today Buckley says: ''There was a sense of opportunity. And it's just a plain fact that when I looked at it and thought, What the hell, this is kind of interesting, and reported to the executive committee of the Conservative Party, there was a sense of excitement.'' 
 The tone was set in his first news conference, held at the Overseas Press Club and attended by some 50 reporters. At 39, Buckley was well known thanks to National Review, his column (carried in almost 150 papers) and his four books (especially the hot-button sensations ''God and Man at Yale,'' a blistering attack on his alma mater, and ''McCarthy and His Enemies,'' a defense of the seemingly indefensible Red-hunter). He was also something of a figure about town, with his yachting, his Upper East Side triplex and his glamorous wife, Pat, a Vancouver heiress and onetime model. (She was present at the news conference in a wheelchair; she had broken her leg skiing in Gstaad.)
 Tall and lanky, clad in a gray wool suit and checked tie, hands plunged into his pockets, Buckley read aloud a nine-page statement in his resonant baritone. ''I am a Republican,'' he began, but ''I seek the honorable designation of the Conservative Party because the Republican designation is not, in New York, available nowadays to anyone in the mainstream of Republican opinion.'' He went on, ''Mr. Lindsay's Republican Party is a rump affair, captive in his and others' hands, no more representative of the body of Republican thought than the Democratic Party in Mississippi'' -- which was segregationist -- ''is representative of the Democratic Party nationally.'' He expanded on the remedies set forth in his column, emphasizing the need for ''a much larger police force, enjoined to lust after the apprehension of criminals even as politicians lust after the acquisition of votes.'' All this was captured by a reel-to-reel tape recorder provided by Buckley himself in the event his remarks were distorted in the press, as had happened in the past. He also had hired a court stenographer, who, after struggling to keep up with Buckley's O.E.D.-inflected vocabulary, grumbled, ''My fingers are killing me.'' 
 But the highlight was the question-and-answer period. It verged on shtick, with the reporters tossing softballs to the novice candidate. 
 Did he have any chance of winning? 
 ''No,'' Buckley said, reaching into his pocket to extract a cigar. 
 Did he really want to be mayor? 
 Buckley pondered, flashed his dazzling teeth and replied, ''I've never considered it.'' 
 Well, then, ''conservatively speaking,'' how many votes did he expect to get? 
 ''One,'' Buckley said cheerfully. 
 And who would cast that vote? 
 ''My secretary.'' 
 Wooing voters was more than he was ready for at this point, especially if it involved courting ''blocs,'' a practiced he abhorred on principle, since it elevated the group and devalued the individual. ''I will not go to Irish centers and go dancing,'' he declared. ''I will not go to Jewish centers and eat blintzes, nor will I go to Italian centers and pretend to speak Italian.'' Besides, stumping for votes was too time-consuming. He had already warned Conservative Party officials he would not disrupt his already crowded schedule. He had a magazine to edit, three columns a week to write, lectures to give -- and there was, in just a week, a sailing race to Halifax, Nova Scotia. He promised to release position papers in due time -- in the fall, once the Democratic primary had been settled -- and to deliver a speech in each of the five boroughs. He would also be available for interviews. But that would be the extent of it. 
 ''It is a melancholy reflection of our prevailing values, rather than on William F. Buckley, that he feels more responsibility for the National Review than John Lindsay feels for Congress,'' Murray Kempton, a Lindsay supporter but friend of Buckley's, remarked the next morning in his column for The World-Telegram and Sun, savoring the ''charming languors'' of a candidate who ''carried through these indignities as handsomely and containedly as any gentleman ranker offered his first introduction to the enlisted men's latrine. He also had the kidney to decline the customary humiliation of soliciting the love of the voters, and read his statement of principles in a tone for all the world that of an Edwardian resident commissioner reading aloud the 39 articles of the Anglican establishment to a conscript assemblage of Zulus.''
 It was all good fun -- too much fun, perhaps. When asked at his second news conference what he would do if elected, a stricken-looking Buckley said, ''Demand a recount.'' The line would be quoted for years to come. But it made his supporters anxious, as did the candidate's cavalier insistence that he didn't stand a chance of being elected. 
 ''I have a distinct feeling that if you were more serious about your campaigning, you could generate a lot of interest and a lot of life,'' an exasperated Barry Goldwater wrote him in July. ''Why not really tie into the whole Lindsay-Javits-Rocky situation and let's find out where our party is really headed?'' 
 Meanwhile, the New York Herald Tribune editorial page, demi-oracle of liberal Republicanism, cautioned Buckley that this was not a time for ''staging esoteric debates.'' And New Yorkers considered ''the mayoralty an office not to be trifled with.'' Of course, the debate Buckley was spoiling for was not esoteric at all; it was part of the continuing struggle for the soul of the Republican Party. Still, the election was shaping up as a momentous event, fraught with national implications, and a serious candidate needed to offer solutions to what was being referred to routinely as New York City's ''crisis'': crime, racial tension, decrepit infrastructures and disheveled public spaces. In the previous 10 years, the city's annual budget had risen 128 percent. (It was approaching $4 billion.) Business and sales taxes had doubled; real estate taxes had jumped 75 percent. Even so, the Wagner administration was borrowing prodigally to cover a $92 million deficit from 1964 and a $256 million deficit for 1965. And New York had the highest unemployment rate of any metropolis in the nation, with some 250,000 people out of work.
 The statistics translated into day-to-day dysfunctionality. Even the glittering island of Manhattan was unnaturally composed of a thin sliver of the rich, garrisoned in wealthy neighborhoods, and a massively enlarging population of the ghetto poor, with very little in between; a million middle-class New Yorkers bolted the city between 1955 and 1965, and the exodus was continuing. The year 1965 was the first in which the city's elementary schools had a greater proportion of blacks and Puerto Ricans, 50.8 percent, than whites. All races and classes had to cope with a rash of pathologies, from noise pollution and clogged streets to an alarming crime rate. In the first three months of 1965, ''serious crime'' on subways rose 41 percent. After one particularly brutal and senseless subway killing, in April, Wagner ordered night patrols on every train, with additional cops posted at each of the system's 480 stations, to combat the predations of ''the mugger, the hoodlum and the young punk.'' 
 The paradox was that this urban nightmare was happening at a time of national prosperity. The G.N.P. grew 8 percent in 1965, and unemployment nationwide stood at 4.5 percent. In Washington, the good times produced a feeling of excitement. ''The prestige of government, and government's confidence, not to say hubris, were at apogees,'' George F. Will would write 30 years later, ''higher than at any time since 1945.'' 
 At the vortex of all this self-assurance was a new cadre of policy intellectuals, employed in the various hives of the executive branch, who were armed with the latest sociological and economic theories and prided themselves on their ability to solve long-range problems. They were the Great Society's ''new priesthood,'' wrote Theodore White, licensed ''to call down the heavy artillery of government, now, on the targets they alone can see moving in the distance.''
 One member of the new priesthood was Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a Labor Department official under both Kennedy and Johnson. (A New Yorker, Moynihan would soon declare his own local candidacy, for City Council president, on the Democratic ticket.) Writing in the pages of a new quarterly, The Public Interest, which made its debut in the fall of 1965, Moynihan articulated this new philosophy. ''We may now turn to issues more demanding of human ingenuity than that of how to put an end to poverty in the richest nation in the world,'' he buoyantly proclaimed. Foreign policy was one area ripe for rethinking. But why stop there? Moynihan added one more goal: ''And there is also the problem of perfecting, to the highest degree possible, the quality of our lives and of our civilization.''
 John Lindsay seemed to agree. He would soon establish no fewer than 25 task forces to propose solutions for transportation, crime, air pollution, water supply, finance and law enforcement. He assigned bank analysts to study the city's economy, management consultants to parse City Hall operations and professors of medievalism to tramp the waterfront in search of ideas for refreshing the city's public spaces. He meant to create a municipal version of the Great Society.
 But skeptics saw it all rather differently. Writing in The New York Review of Books in October 1965, Paul Goodman, author of the countercultural manifesto ''Growing Up Absurd,'' discerned the specter of Big Brotherism in L.B.J.'s grand liberal vision. It was fine when the government summoned its resources ''to prevent or remedy social and physical evils, like urban poverty, exploitation of labor, traffic congestion, air pollution,'' Goodman wrote. But this ''safeguarding function is entirely different from government trying to make life excellent, to make society moral, civilized or magnificent.'' Strip away its vaunting promises and the Great Society, in practical terms, ''multiplies professional-client and patron-client relationships'' with its ''large stable of mandarins'' employed to ''raise the tone, use correct scientific method, and invent rationalizations. Also, the literate mandarins write the speeches.''
 This critique, though it came from the left, echoed the argument that Buckley had been making, for years now, from the right and that he had incorporated into his campaign. ''Obviously the power of government is needed, for instance, to control the traffic problems in New York,'' he said in an address to a conservative group in June. ''Obviously the power of government is needed to decide such questions as what to do when the water reservoirs begin to empty. The question is whether the necessity to increase the powers of government -- yesterday there was no traffic problem, no water scarcity -- for specific purposes, has resulted in unnecessary increases in state power for general purposes.'' 
 His own literate mandarin, Buckley wrote all his speeches and all his position papers -- ''every single one,'' he told me -- at night, on weekends, in between editorial sessions, columns and travels. By the time he was done, he had covered, sometimes imaginatively, every major issue, from water (he proposed a free-market solution) to business taxes (he recommended a European-style ''value added tax''), unions (end the closed shop) and transit and traffic (bicycle lanes on major thoroughfares). At one point, he sent a letter to Walt Disney suggesting he erect a ''Disneyland East'' on the site of the World's Fair when it closed its doors in October. 
 He had help at times, not always solicited. Milton Friedman, the University of Chicago economist, volunteered that Buckley's proposal to give tax incentives to black and Puerto Rican business owners who stayed in depressed areas -- a concept that anticipated the ''enterprise zones'' of a later era -- violated the ''autarchic'' principle of economic self-determination. For the most part, however, Buckley relied on himself, with support from a small nucleus of family and friends. They included his older brother, James, a lawyer at the Buckley family's oil management company, who served, part time, as campaign manager; the public-relations wizard Marvin Liebman, who raised money and put together promotional materials; and Neal Freeman, a 25-year-old Yale graduate, National Review staff member and official of the Young Republican National Federation, who served as Buckley's aide-de-camp, shepherding him to his various appointments. ''Bill was never much interested in campaign management,'' Freeman recalled recently. ''But from Day 1 to Day Last he took very seriously the themes and rhetorical development of his message.'' 
 Throughout the summer, Buckley's quasi candidacy languidly went forward. On Aug. 30, the campaign finally opened its office in a spacious 10th-floor room at 25 West 45th Street. Visitors were taken aback by how young the staff was. O'Doherty and Mahoney were both in their 30's. The volunteers included college-age alumni of the Goldwater crusade, members of the Young Americans for Freedom (the campus organization founded on the Buckley family estate in Sharon, Conn., in 1960) and refugees from the Young Republicans. Together they resembled ''a sort of 'New Frontier' elite of the political right,'' as a Times reporter wrote. And they had no money. Marvin Liebman's original budget had a bottom line of $40,000, and though it would eventually grow to some $240,000, that was still less than one-sixth the sum that would be spent by Lindsay.
 As September began, Buckley found himself fending off charges from within the Conservative Party and from critics outside that he was taking the campaign too lightly. On Sept. 8, he sent a reassuring memo to Conservative Party officials. ''I take this campaign, its purposes, its prospects and my own involvement with it, with the utmost seriousness,'' he vowed, even as he maintained ''my principal role in political affairs, which is that of a critic and commentator.''
 A week later, Wagner's controller, Abraham D. Beame, won the Democratic primary. At 59, a mite-size 5-foot-2, Beame looked and sounded like what he was, a hardworking, detail-minded accountant whose horizons evidently ended with the spreadsheet and the culture of the Brooklyn clubhouse. He was quick to say he would not turn Gracie Mansion into a patronage dump, but he offered little in the way of ideas. His statement announcing his candidacy was 400 words long, and he read it in under five minutes. 
 Still, as a Democrat closely allied with the borough ''bosses'' Charles Buckley of the Bronx (no relation to William F.) and Stanley Steingut of Brooklyn, Beame was now the front-runner. Like Lindsay, he was a Great Society liberal. The two, in fact, made roughly the same ethnic appeals (successfully to Jews and blacks, less so to Italians and Irish). In sum, as Buckley suggested in a press statement, ''the differences between Mr. Beame and Mr. Lindsay are biological, not political.'' (''That is the most sensible thing any surviving candidate for mayor has said so far in this campaign,'' Murray Kempton wrote.) Asked to elaborate, Buckley explained, in the patrician tone that would soon become catnip for stand-up comics, ''Mr. Beame is short and Mr. Lind-uh-say is tall.''
 And then came the most significant turn in the election. On Sept. 16, seven major New York newspapers were hit by a strike, all but The New York Post (then a liberal daily). The Herald Tribune was back in circulation after 11 days. But the presses remained quiet at the other papers for three weeks, and the interim proved a boon for Buckley, thanks to what he today refers to as ''that odd television thing'' -- meaning that the contest, hitherto waged largely in newspapers, most of them hostile to him, now shifted to radio and, especially, television. 
 In September and October, there were four televised debates. They were the first prolonged look many New Yorkers had of Buckley, whom they had hitherto glimpsed fleetingly on talk shows or, in many cases, simply read about. Seated alongside his competitors for an hour at a stretch, the East Coast's leading Goldwaterite scarcely seemed an exemplar of what Richard Hofstadter had recently labeled the ''paranoid style'' of conservatism. On the contrary, Buckley exuded civility and wit. Unlike Goldwater, who could seem angry and grim, a sorehead, Buckley offered comic exuberance. It came through in the gold-plated vocabulary (''Dear Bill-elect,'' a letter from his friend Norman Mailer began, ''What the hell does emunctory mean?'') and in the languid accent -- a piquant blend of British intonation and Southern drawl.
 And there was the mercilessly adroit debating style, honed over the years before many audiences. The chief victim wasn't the waxen Beame, of whom so little was expected. It was Lindsay. Effective on the stump, he was no match for the younger, quicker, looser Buckley on what Marshall McLuhan had not long before described as the ''cool'' medium of television, which dissolved the nimbus of charisma and glamour around Lindsay and exposed his bedrock earnestness and stodginess. Without a text, Lindsay was more Al Gore than Bill Clinton, dependent on creaky political-speak. (''I ask all New Yorkers to join me, to roll up their sleeves.'') While Beame and Lindsay flailed at each other, Buckley, in his role of ''critic and commentator,'' turned the contest into farce.
 In the debate on Channel 2, Beame, tired of hearing Lindsay heap the aggregate failures of the Wagner years on him, raised the well-known fact that in the run-up to the primary, Beame had been mentioned by Lindsay's advisers as a possible running mate. ''I read in the newspapers where you praised my work very highly and you were glad to have me on your ticket,'' Beame said. ''What's happened since? And that was only a few months ago.'' 
 LINDSAY: ''. . .Mr. Beame, you were never invited to be on the Lindsay ticket. And even if you were, Messrs. Buckley and Steingut and the rest of the machine boys would never let you go.''
 MODERATOR: ''Your time is up, Mr. Lindsay. Now, two minutes for Mr. Buckley.'' 
 BUCKLEY: ''Mr. Beame, I feel some sort of an obligation to history to record here that I reluctantly also came to the conclusion not to offer you a position on my slate as controller, great though my personal esteem for you is.''
 ''He is more fun to listen to than most professional comedians,'' the veteran political analyst Robert J. Donovan observed. ''And he has a way of disdaining Rep. Lindsay and Mr. Beame that has diminished both of them in the eyes of many voters.'' In the Channel 5 debate, Buckley noted dryly: ''You know, Mr. Beame keeps talking about how highly qualified he is in virtue of his very considerable political experience, and he says dreadful things about Mr. Lindsay, about how highly disqualified he is, how contemptible he is, how vicious he is, how despicable he is. And Mr. Lindsay tells us that he is highly qualified in politics and tells us that Mr. Beame is, roughly speaking, a mess. Now, if in fact long public service entitles you to make accurate judgments about each other, it would seem to me a fair inference that both of you should disappear from the public scene.''
 Buckley's comic turns served another purpose. They softened the harsher aspect of his message once he closed in on the theme that was winning him support. That theme was race. No establishment politician dared to say it, but racial tension, more than any other factor, was responsible for the ''crisis'' of the city. Crime, narcotics, substandard schools and housing, white flight, the soaring costs of social services -- all these were related to the distinct problems of New York's underclass, a million-plus blacks and 730,000 Puerto Ricans, most of them trapped in vermin-infested ghettos, where two children were bitten by rats on average each day. Products of the city's poorest schools and excluded from key labor unions, black men faced unemployment and idle days. No fewer than half a million of the urban poor were wards of an overstressed welfare system that would drain almost half a billion dollars from city coffers in 1965 alone.
 New York was coming off a year as racially fraught as any in its recent history. In July 1964, after a 15-year-old black teenager was shot in Yorkville by a police lieutenant, a weeklong riot erupted, setting off a chain of violence in cities from Rochester to Philadelphia. The issue had come to the fore in the presidential election when the archsegregationist George Wallace, the governor of Alabama, entered a string of Democratic primaries and tallied shockingly large numbers in Maryland, Indiana and Wisconsin. Playing to white anxiety over new demands from blacks for better jobs and integrated housing and education, Wallace carried every white precinct in Gary, Ind., and attracted substantial numbers of ''backlash'' votes in Milwaukee's white ethnic neighborhoods. During the general election, a Chicago columnist observed that every outbreak of black violence seemed to drive up support for Goldwater. The pundit Walter Lippmann coined the term ''Goldwater Democrats'' to describe working-class whites who crossed party lines to vote for the law-and-order candidate rather than for L.B.J, the civil rights champion. Their numbers turned out to be much smaller on Election Day than pre-election polls had indicated, but it was unclear whether this was because voters rejected the backlash argument or because Goldwater was an indecisive candidate who had run a TV ad that showed rioting blacks only to pull it amid criticism from Democrats. Buckley felt no such constraints. As he says today, ''I was able to reiterate arguments Goldwater had made without any reference to the inhibitions he had to feel.''
 And so Buckley violated the race taboo. But he did so in a novel way, drawing on a sophisticated and up-to-date set of ideas, some of them from unexpected sources, including liberal thinkers who had begun to acknowledge that even the most enlightened social policy might not solve America's age-old race problem. For instance, months before entering the mayoral contest, in a much-publicized debate at Cambridge University with James Baldwin, Buckley cited ''Beyond the Melting Pot,'' a landmark study of American ethnicity written by Moynihan and the Harvard sociologist Nathan Glazer, who, in a chapter on ''the Negroes,'' cautiously proposed that blacks themselves now bore some responsibility for their disadvantages. ''The Negro middle class contributes little, in money, organization or involvement, to the solution of Negro social problems,'' they wrote. ''Conceivably, institutions organized, supported and staffed by Negroes might be much more effective than the government and private agencies that now deal with these problems.'' This formulation was not so different from the self-help argument conservatives had been making for years -- and not they alone. After Malcolm X was assassinated in February, National Review published an appreciation of him that praised the slain leader for having ''hoped for a Goldwater victory'' and for having ''called on Negroes to seek education, respect their women, show pride in themselves, work hard, save their money and start a business.'' 
 Moynihan, Glazer and Malcolm X all shared a powerful feeling of identification with the downtrodden and an acute awareness of racial injustice and its troubling legacy; Buckley, even as he appropriated their arguments, expressed no equivalent sympathy. He acknowledged the fact of racism but did not seem particularly vexed by it. He exhibited much greater zeal in his attacks on black leaders. A result was that although he did not sound like a bigot -- and indeed he was not -- he seemed to give comfort to those who were.
 A startling instance of this occurred in April, even before the campaign began. Buckley was the featured speaker at the Holy Name Society Communion Breakfast, an annual gathering of Catholic police officers, and he caused a sensation. Speaking after the famous Selma marches, led by the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., Buckley, addressing the uniformed crowd of 5,600 (about one-quarter of the entire force), accused the news media of emphasizing the brutality shown by the Alabama police and editing out their initial restraint and of playing up the story of Viola Liuzzo, a Detroit housewife who had gone south to help civil rights workers and been murdered there. ''Why, one wonders, was this a story that occupied the front pages from one end to another, if newspapers are concerned with the unusual, the unexpected?'' Buckley asked. ''Didn't the killing merely confirm precisely what everyone has been saying about the South?'' 
 The next day, The Herald Tribune reported that Buckley's remarks had been greeted with laughter and applause, and he was widely denounced by civil rights leaders and in newspaper editorials. At a news conference, Buckley played a tape recording of his speech that indicated there had been no applause in four places singled out in the report. He also lodged a libel suit against The Herald Tribune, though he withdrew it when the paper took the unusual step of opening up space on its editorial page for Buckley to respond. And he sent a copy of his remarks to Roy Wilkins, the executive director of the N.A.A.C.P., confident that Wilkins would find them harmless. He was mystified when Wilkins instead said that after reading the complete text, he felt ''even more cause for alarm.''
 Buckley's most controversial assertions, all but calculated to outrage, were on the issues of poverty and welfare. In position papers released in October, he recommended quarantining drug addicts and proposed a ''pilot program'' that would ''explore the feasibility of relocating chronic welfare cases outside the City limits.'' Instantly, he found himself fending off the charge, most tellingly from Javits in remarks he made to Jewish groups, that Buckley wanted to establish ''concentration camps'' -- a dynamite charge 20 years after the first death camps were liberated. (Javits later apologized.)
 On Oct. 7, The Herald Tribune published a poll showing Beame with 46 percent of the vote, Lindsay with 36 percent and Buckley with 10 percent, with the rest undecided. Buckley's numbers translated into as many as a quarter-million votes, an encouraging total. More important, he appeared to be cutting deeply enough into Lindsay's support to cost him the election, exactly as planned. On Oct. 10, The Daily News published the results of its World's Fair Public Opinion Poll Exhibit. Some 16,000 people were interviewed. Lindsay received 44 percent, Beame 23 and Buckley an astonishing 33. It was hardly an accurate sampling, but it made news and brought still more attention to Buckley's campaign. In a television debate that evening, Buckley the salon wit shared the stage with Buckley the tribune of the ''backlash'' vote. ''I stand for mundane and vulgar things, such as the following: I believe that it's silly to talk about law and order and the necessity therefore and do everything that you can to end the morale of the police force by coming out for a civilian review board, as both of these gentlemen have done. I believe that it's silly to talk about economy or about overcrowding unless you come out for such things as a one-year residency requirement for people before they go on the welfare roll. I believe in the principle of neighborhood schools, that education should take precedence over integration at least where education is concerned and not integration is concerned. I believe that young thugs are young thugs, irrespective of race, color or creed.'' 
 With two weeks to go, The News's first straw poll, widely considered the most reliable among New York dailies, showed Lindsay and Beame in a dead heat, at about 42 percent each, with Buckley at 16 percent, a distant but impressive third. In Queens, he got 21.5 percent (to Lindsay's 38.2 and Beame's 40.3). Even The Herald Tribune now conceded that Buckley's ''is not, after all, a frivolous candidacy; it is deadly serious.'' 
 The dandy and spoiler had touched a political nerve -- and not by accident. His vocabulary might have been ornate, but his message was plain. ''The key factor that explains the Buckley upsurge is not his personality but the fact that he is giving emotional voice to the many racial discontents among white voters,'' Samuel Lubell, the longtime poll watcher and election analyst, observed. They were New York's equivalents of the blue-collar voters attracted to Wallace in the 1964 primaries and then to Goldwater in the general election. 
 ''I can tell you that it surprised me,'' Neal Freeman recalled recently. ''I suppose that I was expecting our supporters to be National Review types -- car dealers, academic moles, literate dentists, dissenting students, whatever. As soon as we hired halls, though, we learned that [Buckley] was speaking for the people who made the city go -- corner-store owners, cops, schoolteachers, first-home owners, firemen, coping parents.'' 
 The climb up the polls was giddy -- except that Lindsay also seemed to be thriving. Buckley, it appeared, was actually stealing votes from Beame -- attracting Buckley Democrats, as it were -- a fact quickly grasped by both major candidates. In the last weeks of the campaign, Lindsay shrewdly began to play off Buckley, calling him ''an assassin from the ultraright'' and linking him with another rising celebrity on ''the radical right,'' the actor Ronald Reagan, whose prospective campaign for the governorship of California was being followed by the national media almost as closely as Buckley's race a continent away. Reagan, too, made a strong appeal to the backlash vote. He championed ''property rights'' and had shared stages with segregationists like the governor of Arkansas, Orval Faubus, whose refusal to integrate Little Rock schools had brought federal troops there in 1957. 
 With a week to go in the campaign, rumors circulated that the two insurgents had met in a ''secret hideaway,'' along with the conservative icon Clare Boothe Luce and Goldwater himself. It wasn't true, although Goldwater had offered to sign an endorsement of Buckley (''the only true Republican running for Mayor of New York''), which Buckley had declined to use for fear that a poor showing on Nov. 2 would redound against Goldwater and his movement. 
 Suddenly, the stakes really were that high. Buckley looked to be the leader of the next stage of the conservative revolt. ''He is symbolic of the new generation of Republican conservatives -- more intelligent, more sophisticated than the Goldwater generation, and in New York much more effective with the voters,'' James Reston, The Times's top political analyst, wrote from Washington. ''What happens in New York will undoubtedly have considerable effect in the Republican Party all over the country.'' If Buckley did well on Election Day, ''other conservatives in other states will undoubtedly be encouraged to put up conservative candidates, and this is bound to hurt the Republican Party all over the nation.'' 
 The usually coolheaded Walter Lippmann detected Caesarist designs. Buckley, he declared, ''is determined to wreck the party in order to rule the wreckage.'' He added, ''There is no real precedent in American politics for the kind of wrecking operation that Buckley is conducting.'' Soon Goldwaterism would be replaced by a new expression, ''Buckleyism.''
 The candidate was unruffled. ''I was 10 or 12 years into my national announcement as a spokesman for these ideas,'' Buckley told me. ''And I had defended them in all situations.'' Doing it on so big a stage ''amused me and provoked me, by which I mean that I enjoyed pressing a point which would have been thought in normal circumstances something that you couldn't mention.'' 
 Following a Vietnam protest in Manhattan in October, he distributed comments to the press saying, ''I wonder how these self-conscious boulevardiers of protest would have fared if a platoon of American soldiers who have seen gore in South Vietnam had parachuted down into their mincing ranks?'' This brought him the fiercest rebuke yet, a Times editorial that accused him of ''pandering to some of the more brutish instincts in the community, though his appeals to racism and bigotry have been artfully masked.'' In a letter, Buckley pointed out that the demonstrators had given Hanoi a free pass and that he had not said ''a single thing about the Negro problem in Harlem that hasn't been said by others whom you have not, so far as I am aware, done one of your hippopotamus-walks over. Mr. Daniel Moynihan, for instance, whose credentials are by your standards in very good order.'' 
 As the fury mounted, Buckley remained as genial and relaxed as ever. He possessed a talent, perhaps even a genius, for modulating effortlessly between his two personas, the ideological firebrand who made direct appeals to the mob alternating with the comic patrician who charmed sophisticated audiences. ''He is the first candidate for a major local office in years who is working at the top of an acute intelligence and who possesses real and not press-agented style,'' Pete Hamill of The Post observed. ''Yet he remains the leader of people who seem to understand only the emotion of contempt.'' 
 Buckley had become the focus of the campaign. His numbers pushed higher, reaching nearly 20 percent in one poll, and both his opponents were convinced that his showing would dictate the outcome. Beame, his lead all but evaporated, sent an emissary, Roy Cohn, whom Buckley had known since the early 1950's through their common friend, Joseph McCarthy. Buckley recalls: ''Roy Cohn came to me about 10 days before the election and said: 'Bill' -- he was working for Beame -- 'Beame says he's going to lose this thing. And he's going to lose it in part because he can't attack you because your followers will punish him for attacking you since they're so loyal. He wants your permission to attack you.''' Buckley granted it -- ''at that point I would above all things have wanted to defeat Lindsay,'' he says -- and Beame went on to parrot Lindsay's accusations. Buckley, as agreed, didn't fire back.
 But it was too late. On Nov. 2, Lindsay slipped through, with 45 percent of the vote to Beame's 41. It seems that Beame's attacks did damage Buckley's showing, however. He tumbled back to 13 percent, with a little more than 341,000 votes -- almost precisely the outcome he predicted in a pre-election pool with his campaign staff. It was a solid total, but only a little greater, after all, than the antitax candidate, Lawrence Gerosa, received in 1961.
 Analysts would sift through the returns for weeks trying to decide whether Buckley had actually vaulted Lindsay into office (as Beame bitterly insisted) or had cut equally into both men's totals. Buckley himself believed that he stole more of Lindsay's voters -- and that Beame had been hurt mostly by his own incompetence.
 Either way, there was no question where Buckley had run strongest. Though he failed to capture any single district, he finished second in parts of Queens and and fared especially well among Irish and German Catholics. Once again, ethnic-group interests and values -- ''who hates who,'' in the shorthand used by Kevin Phillips, author of ''The Emerging Republican Majority'' -- held true. The difference was that those aggrieved white ethnic voters now appeared to be Republicans, though whether of the Lindsay or the Buckley variety was as yet unclear.
 The answer would come in the next eight years, as what had often been called the ''ungovernable city'' lurched toward anarchy -- all the symptoms of urban dishevelment (union strife, racial unrest, mounting deficits) getting only worse, despite the best efforts of the new priesthood, and Lindsay becoming as alienating a figure as his predecessor, Wagner, and his luckless successor, Beame. The nadir came in 1977, when a citywide blackout resulted in massive looting and thousands of police officers, coming off a bitter work stoppage, failed to show up for duty. In the 1980's and 90's, helped by a strong economy, the ''crisis of the city'' finally ended, and two strong mayors, Edward I. Koch and Rudolph Giuliani, showed that municipal order could indeed be restored. Each in his way offered a gentler version of the Buckley program -- taking on unions, cracking down on crime, urging an ethic of personal responsibility.
 By this time, the struggle for the soul of the Republican Party had ended. Buckleyism -- now known as Reaganism -- prevailed. The party's liberals either were marginalized or expunged. Lindsay, as if enacting the script Buckley had written for him, switched parties, though his stab at the Democratic presidential primaries in 1972 ended almost as soon as it began.
 Most assumed that Buckley despised Lindsay personally, but this had not been the case. In fact, the two were oddly bound by their Yale connections. James Buckley had been a classmate of Lindsay's and a close friend of Lindsay's twin brother, David. There was one last meeting between the two adversaries in the 1990's, when they both attended a birthday party for John Kenneth Galbraith. Lindsay ''approached me very cordially,'' Buckley remembers. ''He had been sick. I said: 'Well, we're leaving in a week to take this boat to the Canary Islands. Why don't you come?' said I. He said, 'Well, that's an interesting idea.''' But it wasn't meant to be.
 ''The fact that it was a conceivable discussion amused me,'' Buckley says. ''I assume he was a nice guy.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: (Photograph by Platon)
THE MANDARIN CANDIDATE: Scenes from the 1965 campaign, including Buckley's initial announcement, top left, and his adieu, top right. Bottom left, at a debate with John V. Lindsay and, bottom right, flanked by Abraham D. Beame and Lindsay, the eventual victor. (Photographs: News Conference: Meyer Liebowitz/The New York Times. Office: Sam Falk/The New York Times. Shirts: Carl T. Gossett Jr./ The New York Times. Flag: Corbis/Bettmann. Debate: Cornell Capa/Magnum. Candidates: Corbis/Bettmann.)
 THE COMMUTER: Buckley may have had an address on the Upper East Side, but his permanent residence was, and is, in Stamford, Conn., meaning he could run for office in New York but couldn't vote there. He is shown here in Stamford with his wife, Pat, on Aug.1, 1965, and again on Aug.11, 40 years later. (Photographs: Left: Truman Moore/Time Life Pictures/Getty Images. Right: Platon For The New York Times.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); WRITERS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); COLD WAR (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); BOOK REVIEWS (69%); LEGISLATION (68%) Biographical Information; Conservatism (US Politics)

PERSON: Sam Tanenhaus; William F Jr Buckley; John V (1921-2000) Lindsay

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



58 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: Bali Bombings Kill at Least 25 In Tourist Spots

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER and JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Sunday, Oct. 2 

 BODY:
A series of bomb blasts rocked popular tourist areas on the island of Bali on Saturday night, killing at least 25 people and injuring 101, the Indonesian government and a local hospital said. 
 Among the places hit were a crowded restaurant outside the Four Seasons hotel at Jimbaran beach, and a shopping square in Kuta, not far from the terrorist bombing that killed 202 people in October 2002.
 Witnesses described lifting bloodied bodies from the badly damaged Raja Bar and Restaurant in Kuta, and taking the injured to hospitals.
 Tourists who had been eating and drinking at the Raja at a peak dinner hour staggered onto the sidewalks of the Kuta Square shopping district. The front of a middle-aged man's beach shirt was drenched in blood, his forehead gashed. Another man lay on his back on a bench, his face, head and arms covered in blood. 
 At Jimbaran, a blurred amateur video caught the sounds of confusion soon after the blast, as survivors tried to escape and motorcycles and cars carried the injured to hospitals. 
 Indonesian police believed that three suicide bombers carried out the bombings at the two sites, a presidential spokesman, Dino Djalal said this morning.
 The police found a total of ''six legs and three heads but no middle bodies, and that's the strong sign of suicide bombers,'' Mr. Djalal said.
 At the beach-side restaurant in Jimbaran, near the Four Seasons hotel, two heads and two sets of legs without torsos were discovered in the debris, he said. This indicated two suicide bombers carried out the attack there, he said. At Kuta, another set of such remains was found in the shattered restaurant, Mr. Djalal said. 
 Mr. Djalal said there were no suspects yet. ''The police can only speak to what they know,'' he said. 
 But immediate suspicion fell on Jemaah Islamiyah, a radical Islamic terrorist group in Indonesia that has used suicide bombers in the past and has been behind other major attacks, including the 2002 bombings at a Bali nightclub. 
 There were conflicting reports on casualties and the number of bombs. Mr. Djalal initially said six bombs had gone off at different locations about 7 p.m. Later, the police had confirmed only three bombs. A hospital in Bali said early Sunday that 25 people had been killed and 101 seriously injured. Mr. Djalal said two of the dead were foreigners. The Australian foreign minister, Alexander Downer, said that one Australian had been killed but that he feared others could be among the dead. Diplomatic missions from other countries reported that one Japanese woman was among the dead and that five South Koreans were wounded, Agence France-Presse reported.
 Among the wounded were 49 Indonesians, 17 Australians, 6 Koreans, 3 Japanese and 2 Americans, according to officials at Sanglah Hospital near Denpasar, the capital of Bali. 
 Television reports showed chaotic scenes at a hospital as badly wounded people were wheeled into crowded corridors on gurneys, and dazed foreign tourists searched for friends. 
 One witness, I Wayan Krisna, told El Shinta radio that as he tried to drag victims from the debris at the Raja Bar, he saw dismembered bodies scattered on the floor. The first and second floors of the restaurant, a favorite hangout for foreigners, were heavily damaged, but the third floor was virtually intact. 
 President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono immediately met with counterterrorism police investigators in Jakarta who have dealt with previous attacks here, Mr. Djalal said. The government did not know who was behind Saturday's explosions, he said. ''We are going to marshal all our resources to hunt the perpetrators; the people who are going to do this are seasoned,'' Mr. Djalal said. 
 The bombs were timed in sequence much like those in the 2002 bombings by Jemaah Islamiyah and came just short of the Oct. 12 anniversary. Two suicide bombers, including one with a car bomb, were responsible for the earlier attacks. Of the 202 people killed, more than 80 were Australians. At about the same time, a smaller bomb went off outside the United States Consulate, where there were no fatalities. 
 ''The president feared something like this would be attempted around this time,'' Mr. Djalal said, referring to the anniversary.
 Initial reports Saturday night indicated that there did not appear to be a car bomb involved in the attacks. The first blasts occurred in Jimbaran, and they were followed by the blast at the Raja in Kuta. 
 Whoever was behind the bombings chose two different sides of Bali. Kuta is a reasonably priced, crowded shopping street with cheek-by-jowl shops, bars and boutiques. Jimbaran, about three miles away, is a more spacious area, with five-star hotels and new luxury condominiums, that appeals to more affluent tourists. One of the blasts in Jimbaran went off about 500 yards outside the Four Seasons hotel, said Fajar Yulinto, the duty manager of the Four Seasons in Jakarta. 
 The blasts came just as Bali had seemed to put the 2002 terror attacks behind it, and as the tourism industry, the mainstay of the economy, was steaming to recovery. 
 Tourists, particularly Australians, have been flooding back to the island, even though the Australian government has kept a travel advisory in place, warning Australians that travel there was risky. The United States and Britain also have warnings about travel to Bali.
 Although President Yudhoyono has been praised by the United States for cracking down on terrorists, American officials expressed nervousness several months ago that another major attack in Indonesia could be in the works. Much of the attention focused, however, on the capital, Jakarta, not Bali. 
 The two main bomb-makers for Jemaah Islamiyah remain at large despite the arrests of scores of members of the group. Indeed, Mr. Yudhoyono worried that Indonesia was vulnerable to further terrorism, his aides said. Two other major attacks in Jakarta, in 2003 and 2004, were attributed to Jemaah Islamiyah and carried out by suicide bombers.
 In August 2003, 12 people were killed and at least 150 injured at the JW Marriott Hotel. In September 2004, at least 9 Indonesians were killed when a suicide bomber drove up to the front gate of the Australian Embassy. 
 The attack on Bali in 2002 began when a suicide bomber set off his explosive vest inside Paddy's Club at 11:08 p.m. The explosion is believed to have killed eight people, and it also drove panicked patrons out into the street, where another bomb was waiting. That bomb, a much bigger one hidden in a van parked outside the Sari Club, was set off by a second man 29 seconds later, ripping through the crowds in the narrow street.
 The attacks did severe harm to Bali's tourism industry, which was further hurt by the scare over sudden acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, and the outbreak of the Iraq war. While tourist visits have steadily increased in the past two years, they have not reached their former levels. 
 The bombings also galvanized the Indonesian government to act against Islamic militants after years of ignoring or failing to act on warnings from the United States and other nations that terrorists were active there. Since then, the government has made hundreds of arrests of suspected militants, including people accused of plotting attacks against United States interests overseas.
 Three brothers were convicted for organizing the 2002 Bali bombings. One brother, Ali Gufron, who is known as Mukhlas, was sentenced to death in 2003 after being found guilty of having overall responsibility for the attack. His brother Amrozi was also sentenced to death. The third brother, Ali Imron, received a life sentence after cooperating with the authorities and expressing remorse.
 Prosecutors said that before that attack, Mukhlas assumed the role of operations chief of Jemaah Islamiyah. He took the commanding position from another Indonesian, Hambali, who also goes by the name Riduan Isamuddin. Hambali, who is believed to be directly involved in Al Qaeda, was captured in Thailand in August 2003 and is now in American custody.
 This past March, Jemaah Islamiyah's supreme leader, the cleric Abu Bakar Bashir, was convicted of criminal conspiracy in connection with the Bali bombings.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Several bomb explosions on the Indonesian island of Bali last night killed at least 25 people and injured scores more at sites popular with tourists. (Photo by Jason Childs/Getty Images)(pg. 4)Maps of Bali highlights the sites of the bombings yesterday and in 2002: Bombs struck again at Bali tourist sites. An attack in 2002 killed 202. (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (95%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BEACHES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TOURISM (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); DRINKING PLACES (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (63%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (61%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (60%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (60%); RELIGION (50%) 

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: JEMAAH ISLAMIYA (59%); POLICE FOUNDATION (55%) Jemaah Islamiyah (Terrorist Group)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: Raymond Bonner; Jane Perlez

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (58%) INDONESIA (95%); AUSTRALIA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Indonesia; Jimbaran (Indonesia); Kuta (Indonesia); Bali (Indonesia)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



59 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Turkey's Quest to Join Europe Collides With Its Textile Dreams

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: BURSA, Turkey, Sept. 30 

 BODY:
As the muezzin calls worshipers to morning prayers in this former capital of the Ottoman Empire, a small army of women in head scarves is sewing the final stitches on Adidas sweat pants and Guess T-shirts at the sprawling Biesseci factory here.
 They are the foot soldiers of Turkey's quest to get its textiles onto the runways of Milan, the shelves of London boutiques and the racks of American shopping malls.
But Bursa's aim of becoming a global textile manufacturing center is at risk. Once linked with China as part of the Silk Road in the 15th century, this city of nearly two million, across the Marmara Sea from Istanbul, now faces its greatest threat from China's low-cost textile producers and the costs associated with Turkey's drive to join the European Union. 
 As Europe and Turkey prepare for membership talks, which are scheduled to begin Monday in Luxembourg, a growing number of Turkey's textile producers are asking whether the country should distance itself from a Europe that may be intent on rejecting it.
 ''We don't need the E.U., and they don't want us anyway,'' said Bekir Celikten, the foreign trade manager at Any Tekstil, a textile firm based in Bursa that exports intricately embroidered curtains to more than 100 countries, including China. ''If we maintain our superior quality, investment will come here anyway.''
 At Biesseci, which spins cotton, dyes yarn and exports apparel to more than 50 countries, including Germany, France, Italy and the United States, Ismail Beceren, the general manager, starkly describes his problem.
 ''We can't go downmarket, because it's impossible to compete with China on price and the E.U. is bringing us extra costs,'' he said. ''We either improve quality and productivity and move upmarket, or we die.''
 Factories like Biesseci once benefited from free land, offered after Turkey's founder, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, declared Bursa to be Turkey's textile capital in 1925. He implored local residents to ''build as many factories as mosques'' to ensure Turkey's economic prowess.
 Today, such subsidies have been phased out because of the European Union's stringent state-aid rules. Meanwhile, European plans to lift quotas, by 2008, that limit Chinese textiles imported into the bloc are viewed as a ticking time bomb that threatens the industry's demise.
 The country's links with Europe have helped the Turkish economy -- but they have also pushed up wages, lifting the salary for Biesseci assembly-line workers to $675 a month, compared with $38 to $75 a month for a textile worker in China. This is reflected in the price of goods. While American and European wholesalers pay $60 for a dozen Turkish bras, Mr. Beceren said, a dozen Chinese bras cost just $2.
 To survive, dozens of Turkish firms have moved some of their production from Turkey to lower-cost countries like Bulgaria, Uzbekistan and Ukraine, as well as places in Africa. Yesim, a clothing maker that produces sweatshirts and T-shirts for companies like Gap, Nike and Zara, outsources the production of basic items to Bulgaria and Moldova. ''We have to cut costs,'' said Hayriye Torun, Yesim's export manager.
 Ms. Torun said Turkey desperately needed more global fashion brands to create buzz. She said she was unhappy that there were still no Turkish Armanis, but closer links to Europe might help.
 ''The problem is that Europeans still think of Turkey as a poor, agricultural country full of women in head scarves,'' she said. ''The image needs to catch up with the reality.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXTILE MFG (91%); TEXTILES (91%); TEXTILE MILLS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); FABRIC MILLS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); WAGES & SALARIES (83%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); RETAILERS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); RELIGION (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%) 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%)

PERSON: Dan Bilefsky

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%) EUROPE (95%); TURKEY (95%); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); ITALY (79%); FRANCE (79%); LUXEMBOURG (76%) European Union; Europe; China; Bursa (Turkey); Turkey

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



60 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: RECOVERY; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Blanket of Mold Threatens Health and Homes

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS 

 BODY:
As residents of New Orleans begin to re-enter the homes and businesses left standing after Hurricane Katrina, many may face an obstacle more pervasive and possibly more dangerous than mud and rotting wood: mold spores reproducing inside tens of thousands of buildings.
 Public health experts say mold could present significant risks and may force thousands of demolitions.
Trillions of spores, exacerbated by the sultry late-summer weather, could sicken the 20 percent of the population that has allergy problems, experts say, and could also be dangerous for older residents, children and people with weakened immune systems. 
 Further, New Orleans has large populations with high rates of asthma, particularly African-Americans and people living below the poverty line, and mold can aggravate asthma symptoms.But as the city confronts its enormous rebuilding task, removing mold has been deemed a low priority compared with repairing levees and bridges, clearing streets and figuring out how to restart the economy. 
 Officials at the state Department of Health and Hospitals, the agency primarily responsible for mold mitigation, said the department was so overwhelmed with other flood-related work that it could not inspect homes or analyze the potential health risks of mold, beyond disseminating information on its Web site.
 After the city's levees were breached, tens of thousands of commercial and residential structures were submerged. Any wall or ceiling above the flood line was at risk of attracting mold spores, which are present in the air and reproduce when there is sufficient moisture and when they have a food source -- organic materials like insulation, mattresses, wallpaper, upholstered furniture and stuffed animals. 
 Douglas A. Rice, director of the environmental quality laboratory at Colorado State University, said each square inch of mold growth could produce one million spores. While most people will not feel any ill effects of breathing a moderate number of spores, Dr. Rice said that even healthy people could come down with sinus and lung infections that could spread to the brain, and that some molds produced toxins that could cause birth defects and cancer.
 ''You are dealing with literally trillions of spores,'' he said. ''That can overwhelm even a healthy immune system.''
 But other experts disagree, and studies examining the long-term health effects of mold exposure have been inconclusive.
 Howard M. Kipen, a professor of environmental and occupational medicine at the Robert Wood Johnson Medical School in New Jersey, said scientific evidence did not bear out links between mold exposure and cancer, birth defects or even fatigue.
 ''It can make a significant percentage of the population sick,'' Professor Kipen said, referring to those with allergies. ''Mold is very nasty. But whether it causes permanent health injury is inconclusive.''
 Harold I. Zeliger, a chemical toxicologist in West Charlton, N.Y., said the mold in New Orleans -- after nearly four weeks of uninterrupted growth -- could force the widespread demolition of buildings. 
 ''Even if they could be saved structurally,'' Dr. Zeliger said, ''it probably doesn't make economic sense to do so.''
 Despite such predictions, some property owners are trying to clean up. But some of the advice being disseminated by state and federal agencies is contradictory, and most of it does not take into account the current circumstances in New Orleans.
 The federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration, for instance, recommends that cleaning be completed within 48 hours but says nothing about what to do if a building was flooded nearly four weeks ago. The agency's Web site states that care should be taken not to spread spores when cleaning, and recommends blocking air vents and not using fans to dry buildings soaked by contaminated water. 
 However, the state Department of Health and Hospitals advises on its Web site, ''where possible, use fans to dry out the building,'' and does not discuss taking steps to prevent the spread of mold.
 Many of the residents who have returned have not followed the recommended precautions. Some said they could not afford special equipment and lacked insurance that would allow them to hire a professional.
 ''It's a little mold,'' said Charlie Cooke, 43, who was scrubbing the walls of his home near the Central Business District with bleach. ''I'd rather get a little sick than wait to have my place cleaned up.''
 About eight inches of water had flooded the first floor of Mr. Cooke's house; his couch was spotted with fungus, and gray and black spots of mold covered the walls, which had turned from white to yellow. 
 He wore gloves but not a mask, and was barefoot. ''You pick your poison, I suppose,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Joan Frichter returned to her home in St. Bernard Parish, La., last week to find it infested with mold. She said she wouldn't live there again. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); MOLDS & FUNGI (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); ALLERGIES (89%); BUILDING & HOUSING INSPECTIONS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (76%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (76%); ASTHMA (75%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); SINUSITIS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); TOXICOLOGY LABORATORIES (68%); TOXICOLOGY (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (63%); SCIENCE NEWS (63%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (63%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (61%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (54%); WEB SITES (51%) 

PERSON: Timothy Williams

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



61 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2672 words

HEADLINE: The Avenger

BYLINE: By JOYCE CAROL OATES. 
Joyce Carol Oates, a professor of humanities at Princeton University, is the author of ''On Boxing.'' Her new novel, ''Missing Mom,'' is being published this month.

 BODY:
BEYOND GLORY
 Joe Louis vs. Max Schmeling,
 and a World on the Brink.
 By David Margolick.
 Illustrated. 423 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $26.95.
BOXING is the most pitiless of sports, as it can be the most dazzling, theatrical and emblematic. Where race and nationalism are involved, as in the famous Joe Louis-Max Schmeling heavyweight fights of 1936 and 1938, two of the most widely publicized boxing matches in history, the emblematic aspect of the sport can assume epic proportions. When the second fight, of June 1938, pitting the 24-year-old American Negro titleholder, Louis, against the 32-year-old Schmeling, the Nazis' star athlete, was fought at Yankee Stadium, the contest was as much between the United States and Nazi Germany as between two superbly skilled athletes. There were almost 70,000 spectators and an estimated 100 million radio listeners throughout the world: ''the largest audience in history for anything.'' 
 David Margolick, the author of such diverse works of nonfiction as ''Strange Fruit: The Biography of a Song,'' ''At the Bar: The Passions and Peccadilloes of American Lawyers'' and ''Undue Influence: The Epic Battle Over the Johnson & Johnson Fortune,'' is clearly disadvantaged in retelling so familiar a sports tale. The Louis-Schmeling fights, with their extraordinary political/cultural significance, have been analyzed more than any boxing matches in history; the paired fights have become staples of ESPN Classic; there have been TV documentaries on Louis and Schmeling as iconic representatives of their nations in the years preceding World War II, inevitably covering the same historical ground. The most poignant and engaging of recent books to examine the role of Joe Louis in the politicized epic drama is Donald McRae's ''Heroes Without a Country: America's Betrayal of Joe Louis and Jesse Owens'' (2003).
 What Margolick has accomplished in ''Beyond Glory'' is to provide an exhaustively researched background to the Louis-Schmeling rivalry that includes sympathetic portraits of both Joe Louis and Max Schmeling; an examination of racism at home and anti-Semitism in Germany; a look at the predominant role of Jews in professional boxing in the United States; and, interlarded through the text, opinions by just about anyone, from boxing experts and sportswriters to celebrities and ordinary, anonymous citizens, who might have had something to say about Louis or Schmeling that found its way into print, valuable or otherwise. Less cultural criticism than Margolick's artfully focused ''Strange Fruit,'' ''Beyond Glory'' is historical reportage, a heavyweight of a book that is likely to be the definitive chronicle of its subject.
 ''Too good to be true, and absolutely true . . . the most beautiful fighting machine that I have ever seen'': so Ernest Hemingway famously wrote of Joe Louis after the 21-year-old's savage victory over the ex-heavyweight champion Max Baer in 1935. Louis's distinctive ring style, like the politely inexpressive public persona cultivated for him by his canny managers, gave the impression of robotlike precision, the more lethal for being seemingly without emotion. ''Joe Louis ain't no natural killer,'' Louis's trainer remarked. ''He's a manufactured killer.'' In both Louis-Schmeling fights, with their singularly different outcomes -- Louis was ignominiously knocked out by Schmeling in the 12th round of the first fight; in the rematch, Louis knocked Schmeling out in a spectacular feat of boxing, in the first round -- the young black heavyweight was as impressive for the devastating accuracy of his fists as for his economical footwork and the power of his combination punches. A ''small'' heavyweight by contemporary, post-Sonny Liston standards at 6 feet 1 inches, with a reach of 76 inches and, in 1936, weighing 198 pounds, Louis had disproportionately large hands and powerfully muscled wrists, forearms and legs; in his celebrated early fights, available on film, he more resembles a 21st-century middleweight than a heavyweight. You can see how, in the 1936 match with Schmeling, Louis's inexperience cost him the fight: the German boxer had scrutinized films of Louis's fights and discovered a habitual weakness in his defense, an unconscious lowering of his left glove after throwing a punch. (In more colloquial terms, the Cinderella Man, James J. Braddock, heavyweight champion from 1935 to 1937, thought Louis was ''a sucker for a right hand; every time he jabbed he leaned way over and stuck his kisser out there, just begging to be socked.'') By the time of the media-hyped rematch on June 22, 1938 -- ''Joe Louis versus Adolf Hitler Day'' -- Louis had been trained not to make that mistake, with devastating results for his older opponent. The victory of the American ''Brown Bomber'' over the German ''altar to manliness'' was so decisive that even the suspicious German press, after examining fight films, could not contest it.
 At the time of his initial retirement in 1949, Joe Louis had a brilliant ring record of 60 wins -- 51 by knockout -- and one loss, through a career of 15 years that included 25 title defenses. Along with his controversial predecessor Jack Johnson, the first black heavyweight champion (1908-15), and his yet more famous successor Muhammad Ali (1964-67; 1974-78; 1978-79), Louis ranks with the greatest heavyweight boxers in history, of a stature surpassing that of, for instance, Rocky Marciano, who defeated him in 1951 after Louis's ill-advised comeback. Like many former champions, Louis was forced to resume his career for financial reasons, with humiliating results. His accounts had been so mismanaged that though he'd reputedly earned $4.6 million by the late 1940's, Louis had virtually nothing to show for it. (In a gesture of patriotic but naive generosity, he had donated the purses of two of his fights to the United States war effort in the early 1940's, for which the I.R.S. relentlessly hounded him for taxes and arrears amounting to nearly a half-million dollars, a colossal debt at midcentury.) As in the grimmest of fairy tales, the most honored athlete of his time, the man responsible for ''the greatest show of Negro unity America had ever seen,'' would end his career as a professional wrestler, then a ''greeter'' at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas, where, drug-dependent and paranoid, he would die of cardiac arrest and general physical collapse in 1981, at the age of 66.
 By contrast, and ironically, the ever-resourceful, chameleonlike and urbane Max Schmeling not only survived the brutal vicissitudes of the boxing ring and the trauma of his 1938 defeat but was able to maintain his reputation as a homeland hero -- ''German Champion in All Classes'' -- through a lengthy, perennially public career of self-promotion and self-mythologizing. As Margolick writes, ''The man who was malleable enough to fit into Weimar Germany and the Third Reich with equal ease now became an exemplar of West Germany, of its economic miracle and its fledgling democracy.'' Schmeling would live to be 99; he would die a millionaire.
 Where Joe Louis gives the impression of being, for all his dominance in the ring, essentially passive and susceptible to manipulation by others (see ''Joe Louis: My Life,'' by Joe Louis with Edna and Art Rust Jr., 1978), Max Schmeling appears to have been the consummate manipulator of others. In appearance, in boxing trunks, Schmeling more resembled the Manassa Mauler, Jack Dempsey, than an emblem of fair Aryan manhood, but his ring style was the antithesis of Dempsey's unstoppered aggression: ''cooler, slower, more methodical -- 'Teutonic.' '' As a young man Schmeling had taken pride in associating with German intellectuals like the filmmaker Josef von Sternberg, the artist George Grosz and Thomas Mann's novelist brother, Heinrich Mann: ''Artists, grant me your favor -- boxing is also an art!'' he wrote to one of these. Shrewd enough never to have joined the Nazi Party, in part because he was depending upon American (i.e., Jewish-managed) boxing for a lucrative career, Schmeling yet benefited from the patronage of the highest-ranking Nazis and the admiration of Hitler; in the United States he emphasized the separation of politics and sports, as in Germany he readily gave the Nazi salute and acquiesced in the ''Nazification'' of athletics. His canniest decision was to have signed a contract as a relatively young boxer to fight in America under the auspices of Joe Jacobs, the Jewish manager with whom he would remain through the anti-Semitic ravages of the Third Reich. As Margolick notes: ''He had the best of both worlds: he was making enormous amounts of money . . . and had the approbation of his people and his government. There is no evidence, in anything he said or did at the time, to suggest that he ever agonized over anything.'' Schmeling's greatest coup, more lucrative than any boxing purse, was being offered a Coca-Cola dealership in northern Germany that would make him wealthy in the very years when Joe Louis, whom the Atlanta-based company had never wished to approach for advertising purposes, was crushed by debt.
 When American boxing was at its zenith in the first half of the 20th century, as Margolick says, ''Jews were all over boxing, not just as fighters and fans but . . . promoters, trainers, managers, referees, propagandists, equipment manufacturers, suppliers, chroniclers.'' (Jewish boxers? The most famous were the lightweight champions Benny Leonard and Barney Ross. Marketable Jewish heavyweights were in such short supply that the non-Jewish Max Baer, a charismatic champion of 1934-35, performed in trunks adorned with the Star of David.) Through their careers Louis and Schmeling were associated with Jewish boxing entrepreneurs, both named Jacobs: Mike, Joe. Not only were the two Jacobses unrelated but the men were temperamental opposites: Mike Jacobs the dour, humorless fight promoter whom few liked, Joe Jacobs the ''quintessential Broadway guy'' liked even by men who didn't trust him. Where Joe Jacobs was ''fanatically devoted to his fighters, whom he championed unceasingly and ingeniously,'' Mike Jacobs took so little interest in his boxers that he sometimes didn't trouble to watch even their championship matches: ''For him, the real sport lay in staging a show, outwitting the other guy, putting fannies in seats. . . . Fight nights he could often be seen patrolling the stadium, or even hawking tickets.'' Yet ''Uncle Mike'' was the individual responsible for Joe Louis's phenomenal career, financing the young boxer at the start and grooming him for the championship by assuring that Louis would be marketed to the white public in a way to neutralize the image of the flamboyant Jack Johnson. Margolick writes:
 ''Louis would be the antithesis of everything Jack Johnson had been. He would always be soft-spoken, understated and polite, no matter what he accomplished. He would not preen or gloat or strut in the ring. . . . He would always conduct himself with dignity. . . . When it came to women, he would stick to his own kind. . . . He would never fraternize with white women, let alone be photographed with them. He would not drive fast cars, especially red ones. . . . The press would be saturated with stories of Louis's boyish goodness, his love for his mother, his mother's love for him, his devotion to Scripture.''
 Without this discreetly constructed persona, which accounts for Louis's ''frozen'' demeanor in public, it's probable that Joe Louis would be recalled as one of the legendary ''shadow champions'' like Peter Jackson and Harry Wills, black boxers whom the champions John L. Sullivan and Jack Dempsey managed to avoid.
 Joe Jacobs, Schmeling's ever-zealous manager, was also concerned with honing marketable images for his fighters. He was scrappy, bright, inventive and courageous or reckless enough to take one of his fighters to Georgia, where Jacobs was threatened by the Ku Klux Klan. The anti-Semitic newspaper columnist Westbrook Pegler called him ''a New York sidewalk boy of the most conspicuous Jewishness,'' but fight folks called him ''Yussel the Muscle.'' In a time in which activist Jews were organizing boycotts of German goods and of individuals like Max Schmeling, Joe Jacobs came to the seeming defense of Nazi Germany: ''Most of the trouble with the Jews over there is caused by the Jews in this country.'' In a comic-nightmare episode like a scene from a Woody Allen movie, after a victory of Schmeling's in Hamburg in 1935 the wily Jew from New York City found himself hauled into the ring by Schmeling as the German national anthem was being sung by 25,000 ecstatic Germans lifting their arms in the Nazi salute:
 ''Jacobs was momentarily at a loss. But everyone else was saluting, he thought, and he was in plain sight; what else was he to do? So up went his right arm, too, though with a cigar nestled between his fingers. . . . Schmeling's arm was stiff and resolute, while Jacobs's was more limp, as if halfheartedly hailing a cab.''
 Joe Jacobs would die of a heart attack at 42 in 1940, not long after his star boxer had left boxing to become a paratrooper in the Wehrmacht.
 The actual time a boxer spends fighting is minuscule set beside the interminable preparation, training, ''intrigue and . . . politicking'' of the kind Margolick reports in detail, so in ''Beyond Glory'' the Louis-Schmeling fights take up a very small part of the text. Most of the chapters are impersonal historical accounts, culled from numerous sources, in which the author's voice is subordinate to his material. Amid much summarizing, press clippings of the era, many of them painfully racist, provide candor and color; occasionally there are outbursts of a kind of comic surrealism, as in this rapid collage following the dramatic outcome of the 1938 fight:
 ''In the stands there was bedlam. Tallulah Bankhead sprang to her feet and turned to the Schmeling fans behind her. 'I told you so, you sons of bitches!' she screamed. Whites were hugging blacks. 'The happiest people I saw at this fight were not the Negroes but the Jews,' a black writer observed. 'In the row in front of me there was a great line of Jews -- and they had the best time of all their Jewish lives.' . . . 'Beat the hell out of the damn German bastard!' W. E. B. Du Bois, a lifelong Germanophile who rarely swore, shouted gleefully in Atlanta. In Hollywood, Bette Davis jumped up and down; she had won $66 in the Warner Brothers fight pool. . . . 'Everybody danced and sang,' Woody Guthrie wrote from Santa Fe. 'I watched the people laugh, walk, sing, do all sorts of dances. I heard ''Hooray for Joe Louis!'' ''To hell with Max Schmeling'' in Indian, Mexican, Spanish, all kinds of white tongues.' ''
 (Here is history as antic folk art, like a mural by Thomas Hart Benton.)
 Beyond an ambitious distillation of facts and a blizzard of opinions, what seems missing in ''Beyond Glory'' is authorial perspective: what does David Margolick make of the Louis-Schmeling phenomenon? Are such crude but potent myths of the ''moral'' superiority of physical superiority still dominant in our culture? Did not a single commentator among so many make the obvious point that Joe Louis beat Max Schmeling in the ring because, that night, he was the better boxer, not because he was the better man, or represented the better country? Did not one commentator take note that boxing, like warfare, has nothing to do with virtue? Even in the epilogue the author's voice is curiously muted, where one might expect some of the subtly nuanced, informed and engaging commentary that gives such life to ''At the Bar'' (1995), a collection of Margolick's legal columns from The New York Times.
 Yet ''Beyond Glory'' is a valuable addition to a growing library of books on sports and culture, one to set beside Gerald Early's ''Culture of Bruising'' (1994) and Geoffrey C. Ward's ''Unforgivable Blackness: The Rise and Fall of Jack Johnson'' (2004) as a chronicle of an era not so bygone as we might wish.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Max Schmeling, 1936. (Photography by Keystone/Getty Images)
The weigh-in in New York, June 22, 1938 (Photograph by Agence France-Presse/Getty Images)
Schmeling goes down for a count of 3 less than a minute into the second fight with Louis. At 2:04 of Round 1, Louis was the winner by a technical knockout. (Photograph by Associated Press)
 Joe Louis, 1937. (Photograph by The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BOXING (91%); WORLD WAR II (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); CELEBRITIES (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (72%); LITERATURE (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); WRITERS (72%); RACE & RACISM (70%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (67%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (64%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (53%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (67%); ESPN INC (58%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (67%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: Joyce Carol Oates; David Margolick; Joe (1914-81) Louis; Max Schmeling

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2005



62 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 86

LENGTH: 3007 words

HEADLINE: The Backup Candidate

BYLINE: By Nicholas Confessore. 
Nicholas Confessore is a reporter for The New York Times.

 BODY:
One day this past July, Rick Lazio stepped out of the sticky, stifling heat of the Washington summer and into the cool, cerebral embrace of the Council on Foreign Relations, which keeps an office on Massachusetts Avenue just east of Dupont Circle. Lazio, the former congressman and onetime United States Senate candidate, can usually be found these days delivering speeches before business executives and dining with high government officials on behalf of J.P. Morgan Chase, the financial services firm where he is an executive vice president. But on this particular day he came to spend three hours in a smallish first-floor conference room meeting with members of the council's Africa Task Force, essentially a midlevel bull session about United States policy toward foreign countries that, if you named them, most Americans would assume were planets in some Spielbergian science-fiction epic.
Lazio, vigorous as always, burst into the room, smiling broadly, his thick dollop of hair -- now noticeably swirled with gray -- bobbing as he shook hands around the table. The meeting was called to order, and it was soon his turn to present. ''There's two markets in Africa,'' said Lazio, who has never been there. ''South Africa, and the rest of Africa.'' There were knowing chuckles from the old hands seated around the table; Lazio loosened his shoulders and began to speak in fluent wonk -- ''foreign direct investment,'' ''repatriated income.'' 
 Gatherings like this are usually the sort of respectable, if slightly musty, concern that politicians frequent at the ends of long careers in Washington, dispensing sage advice gleaned from decades spent in committee rooms. Lazio is 47, young for a former congressman. Just five years ago he was running against Hillary Clinton in a campaign he called ''the most important race of my generation,'' not discussing undeveloped coalfields in Malawi.
 But the session seemed to bring back a taste of his years as an up-and-coming Suffolk County congressman, before Clinton romped her way to a Senate seat and Lazio found himself out of a job. ''I get very animated by being involved in issues like this, where you can see the possibility of having some sort of impact instead of just talking about what you're going to do,'' he told me after the meeting, as we climbed into a taxicab. He pondered for a moment, and a glint came into his eye. ''Public life is always in your blood,'' he added, quietly. ''It never quite leaves you.''
 Not a few of Lazio's old colleagues are counting on it. Their party has dominated state politics for more than a decade, but many Republican operatives and officeholders are worried that next year's statewide elections will go poorly for them. The state G.O.P. is short enough on top-drawer talent for the 2006 elections that Jeanine Pirro, the Westchester district attorney, spent months mulling which of three different statewide offices she would run for, before finally settling on a Senate campaign against Clinton. This summer, shortly after Gov. George E. Pataki said he would not run for a fourth term, the state G.O.P. began courting William F. Weld, the colorful former governor of Massachusetts who is now a New York financier, for a gubernatorial run, an awkward move given the charges of carpetbagging that Republicans lofted at Clinton during the 2000 campaign. In August, I called Michael Dawidziak, a Long Island-based political consultant, and asked him what he thought about the Republican Party's future. He whistled ''Taps'' over the phone. 
 ''But you never know,'' he added. ''Things can always turn around.''
 Which helps explain why, for the last several months, Republican power brokers have been quietly courting Lazio for a comeback, believing that his name recognition, background as a prosecutor and crossover appeal might make him their best chance for winning back the attorney general's office. 
 Still, politics bestows few second acts. Lazio, despite his ambition, is keenly aware of that fact. ''I know, instinctively, what I like to do, and what I think I am good at, so that's helpful,'' he said recently, as we sat in his office at J.P. Morgan Chase's Park Avenue headquarters. ''But as you mature and get older, I think you also are more frank with yourself about the things that you're not great at -- an aspiration that might be unrealistic because you just don't have the background or it's not really your strong suit.'' It wasn't clear whether he meant trying out for the Mets or running for the Senate, and I asked him to clarify. ''I couldn't go and run M. & A. for the bank,'' he said with a laugh. Later, however, when we circled back around to the topic, he seemed more pensive. ''I do think that you prefer to leave on your terms,'' he said. ''And that wasn't entirely the case in 2000, for me.''
 Political defeats, especially those suffused with the kind of world-historical weight so many Republicans attached to beating Hillary Clinton, breed their own kind of cognitive dissonance. If you squint, and are so motivated, it is fairly easy to see Lazio's Senate campaign as a series of unfortunate events. There was the late start following Rudy Giuliani's abrupt pullout from the race, leaving Lazio with only five months to assemble a team and barnstorm the state. There was factional bickering, chiefly between the Washington-based consultant Mike Murphy and emissaries from Pataki and Giuliani. There were Murphy's clumsy grafts from John McCain's presidential campaign, like having Lazio tour the state on a bus dubbed ''the Mainstream Express,'' with the result that Clinton, traveling by plane, could make five or six stops on a day where Lazio made three.
 It's also now clear that Lazio spent too much time ticking off Clinton's vices and not enough time defining his own reasons for running, probably his biggest error. ''We went in with the anti-Hillary vote,'' says Patrick McCarthy, the campaign's traveling press secretary and now an Albany lobbyist. ''And we came out with the anti-Hillary vote, $40 million later.''
 And who could forget that famous debate in Buffalo, moderated by Tim Russert of NBC? Midway through, Lazio marched across the stage to stand before Clinton's podium and demand that she sign a pledge to ban soft money from the campaign; Lazio's former staff members are unanimous only in believing that the event caused him damage chiefly because reporters bought the Clinton campaign's spin that Lazio had been a bully.
 ''Let me take a guess as to what you've heard,'' says Ryan Moses, a former campaign staff member who is now executive director of the state G.O.P. ''One camp says that he was supposed to stand behind the podium, and sort of wave the agreement at her. Then you got the account that people told him to cross the stage, but do it in a nicer way, not as aggressively. And there are the ones who say that he was supposed to give the agreement to Russert. All different people will say what they are going to say.'' (Lazio, with little prodding, told me, ''It was my decision to cross the stage.'')
 In fact, Lazio brought real strengths to the contest: a palatably middle-of-the-road voting record and a list of accomplishments reasonably notable for a four-term congressman, plus his suburban bona fides and experience as a prosecutor. Other strengths are evident still. Lazio is genuinely likable, lacking even a hint of overformality or pretense. He also projects an improbable guilelessness, given the savvy that allowed him to thrive as a moderate in a party run by and for its conservative wing. Lazio's campaign, however, had made sparing use of those strengths, and in the aftermath, the buzz in Republican circles focused on the mistakes.
 There were also the petty embarrassments. One of his fund-raisers sued the campaign for $1.4 million in unpaid fees (they later settled), while the driver of the much-maligned ''Mainstream Express'' told papers that Lazio still owed him $200,000. But perhaps most annoying was the mountain of campaign debt Lazio soon discovered: about $3 million, a number that grew more infuriating as he and his aides came across expense after expense that had piled up in the heat of the campaign but seemed silly the morning after. ''The fruit baskets were a running joke,'' recalls a campaign staff member. Every time Lazio entered a private jet or a hotel room, a fruit basket he didn't want would be waiting for him. ''We'd tell them, 'If he gets another fruit basket, he's gonna explode,''' the staff member says. ''And they kept showing up again! It was impossible to get rid of the fruit baskets!''
 Lazio, never one to wallow in self-pity, did his best to move on. After the election, he was flooded with offers from law firms, lobby shops, even a hedge fund. One month, he served as a guest host on ''Crossfire.'' ''That was never going to be right for me,'' Lazio told me. ''I don't think I'm naturally the kind to be'' -- and here he paused, smiling slyly as he searched for the right words -- ''gratuitously controversial.''
 There was also talk of a post in the Bush administration. ''He had some big fans in the White House,'' says Rob Portman, the U.S. trade representative, who was one of Lazio's closest friends in Congress. ''But all the big jobs were taken.'' 
 Eventually Lazio was recruited to run a new financial trade association, the Financial Services Forum. (He jumped to J.P. Morgan Chase a few years later.) The job allowed him to stay in New York with his wife and two daughters, make a lot of money and remain involved in policy issues without having to do much lobbying of his former colleagues, a prospect that left him cold. In a way, he had it all -- except the job he had really wanted in the first place.
 ''I've never seen Rick too much in a funk,'' says Mike Castle, a Delaware congressman who was elected to the House with Lazio in 1992. ''But at his age, and with the steps that he had already made up the ladder, I'm sure he wishes he had stayed in the House and continued up the ladder there.''
 While Lazio was trying to recover from his loss, the Republican Party in New York was having problems of its own. In political terms, New York State is really three: New York City, the suburban counties surrounding it and the vast tracts of real estate Manhattanites like to call ''upstate.'' The traditional calculus for a Republican running statewide has been to run up big margins upstate, limit the Democratic turnout within the five boroughs and win a strong majority in the city's suburbs. Add in a favorable national surge (Al D'Amato was elected to the Senate with Ronald Reagan in 1980, Pataki with the Republican landslide of 1994), weak Democratic opponents, agreeable positions on abortion and the environment, and a Republican could get things done -- never mind that Democratic voters outnumber Republican ones five to three.
 But in recent years, that calculus has begun to change. An obvious problem is voter fatigue. By next year, the G.O.P. will have controlled the state's two highest-profile offices for more than 12 years, and the party has never quite delivered on its promises to reinvigorate the depressed upstate economy. More ominously, there are signs that the state's political demographics have begun to tilt even more heavily against the G.O.P. The suburbs closer to New York -- think Chappaqua -- vote increasingly Democratic, in part because New York City's renaissance has made it harder for Republicans to cast the Big Apple as a lawless bastion of tax-and-spend liberalism. The city itself votes even more Democratic than it traditionally has in statewide races. And for the past 10 years or so, affluent, left-leaning downstaters have been colonizing counties north along the Hudson River, taking their politics with them. ''While the rest of the nation is going very, very red, New York State is going very, very blue,'' notes Norman Adler, a consultant who has worked for both parties.
 Bill Dal Col, Lazio's former Senate campaign manager, who got his start in New York, says, ''You take Rick's race as a benchmark, and look at what's happened to the state party since, you realize now he was the first band of storm clouds and that the hurricane's going to hit in 2006.'' 
 Nowhere has the wind gusted more strongly than in Lazio's home base, Long Island. By the end of the 1990's, ineptitude and rampant cronyism had destroyed Nassau County's credit rating and, soon enough, its once-powerful Republican machine; Democrats now control the Legislature and county executive's office there. In Suffolk, corruption investigations have picked apart the G.O.P. patronage operation and bestowed upon the town of Brookhaven, a Republican stronghold, the telling sobriquet ''Crookhaven.'' (Today, Democrats control four of Long Island's five Congressional seats.)
 Yet through it all, Lazio has remained one of the party's few bona fide stars. ''He is still beloved by a huge portion of the party faithful,'' notes Patrick McCarthy. ''And you build a pretty valuable fund-raising list when you run against a national icon.''
 Still, it was something of a surprise when, in February 2001, Nassau County Republicans asked Lazio to move there and run for county executive. Lazio thought about it. ''It was kind of like being on the rebound, you know?'' he told me. ''Your girlfriend dumped you, and somebody else is coming up, and you think, welllllll.. . .'' But he didn't have the passion, he says -- and he couldn't bear the idea of being attacked as a carpetbagger. 
 Later that year, Republican leaders in Congress asked him to run for his old House seat in 2002, promising a committee chairmanship and help with his remaining $1 million in campaign debt. Lazio began making the political rounds in Suffolk, just in case. But as he was flying into Washington one day in early 2002, Lazio told me, he caught a glimpse of the Capitol dome and decided against a run. ''I didn't feel the quickening of the heart,'' he said. ''I didn't feel like I needed to get back.'' He bowed out soon after -- but not soon enough for some in his party. ''Here we are at the tail end of March,'' one Republican fumed to Newsday. ''There are no Republican candidates. There are no Republican funds.'' 
 Lazio's tendency toward vacillation is legendary among the state's Republicans, even going back to his Congressional days. And while he has promised to make a decision about his next political race by the end of the year -- ''I want to give everybody enough time so that, if necessary, they can put on a good campaign,'' he told me -- some Republicans are clearly worried about a replay of 2002. Dawidziak, who has worked on nearly all of Lazio's campaigns, laughs when I bring up the question but is quick to defend his friend. ''I would use the word 'methodical,''' he says. ''It's not indecision. It's that he goes through a very long, very hard decision-making process. He knows exactly what he's doing in going through this torturous process -- but it is torturous for everyone around him, too.''
 When I brought it up with Lazio, he conceded: ''I've tried to be better about it in the last three or four years. And I do believe I make decisions more quickly, being conscious of the criticism.'' I asked him if waiting too long had ever cost him anything. He paused for a long time, his brow furrowed, then laughed a little nervously. ''No-ooooooo,'' he said hesitantly. ''In political life, I never thought that I should have moved more quickly.''
 It's possible he could still jump into the governor's race, but the smart money is that if Lazio runs for office next year, it will be to replace Eliot Spitzer as New York's attorney general. The Democrats already face a potentially brutal primary for that office between Mark Green, a former mayoral candidate, and Andrew Cuomo, who mounted a gubernatorial bid of his own in 2002. And because attorney general is considered less of a partisan job than, say, governor or senator, Lazio might have a chance at withstanding what is expected to be high Democratic turnout in 2006.
 Not incidentally, such a race would also give Lazio the best shot at reconstructing his public persona into something more closely resembling the kind of politician he would like to be remembered as. Lazio's political hero is Theodore Roosevelt -- his political action committee, started last year, is called Rough Rider PAC -- and he has never been particularly close to the D'Amato-and-Pataki-built Republican establishment. It is not hard to envision Lazio taking a page from his hero and running against the entire morass of dysfunction that is Albany, Republicans included. Indeed, there are those who think that's precisely what the G.O.P. needs.
 ''The logic of the New York State political culture -- the huge public sector -- is self-reinforcing,'' argues Fred Siegel, the New York intellectual and author of ''The Prince of the City,'' about Giuliani's years as mayor. ''It breeds Democrats and kills off Republicans. The Republican response to this was to buy it off. They became a patronage party.'' It is worth noting, of course, that patronage parties are by their nature well-equipped to withstand those exogenous forces -- demographics, say, or voter fatigue -- that might otherwise push them out of office. For New York's Republican Party, patronage, plus incumbency and vigilant adaptation to the state's leftward drift, have sufficed for a decade. They may not be enough for the future.
 When I describe Siegel's comments to him, Lazio responds with a mild criticism of the G.O.P.'s outreach efforts and a reasonable, but anodyne, list of issues, including tweaking the regional transportation structure and revivifying the upstate economy. ''I do believe that the public in many of these areas have punished Republicans for being complacent,'' he concedes, ''and it is up to a new generation of leaders, whoever they might be, to begin to regenerate these ideas and be seen as solution-oriented.'' Whoever they might be.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Platon)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%) 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (84%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%) Nicholas Confessore; Rick A Lazio

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFRICA (93%); MALAWI (79%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



63 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 82

LENGTH: 2920 words

HEADLINE: So the Jains, They Have a Problem With BEEF in the School Lunches. Who They Gonna Call?

BYLINE: By Suketu Mehta. 
Suketu Mehta is the author of ''Maximum City: Bombay Lost and Found,'' which was recently released in paperback by Vintage.

 BODY:
It was the night of this year's New York primary, and when a billionaire like Mayor Michael Bloomberg holds a party to celebrate his candidacy, it's no small affair. The spacious ballroom of the Marriott in downtown Brooklyn was overflowing with free beer and pigs-in-blankets, and a band revved up the throngs of supporters. ''We love Mike! We love Mike!'' they chanted. Among the supporters was Alex Martins, a goateed Indian lawyer in a business suit and a Hawaiian shirt. He was flanked by three fellow Indians in shirt-sleeves who looked a little lost. Martins waved a big blue Bloomberg poster enthusiastically and joined in the chant; his entourage stood around silently. 
Martins's companions were wearing ''Mike '05'' buttons, but it was safe to assume that they had little clue what the mayor's political platform was. They were at the Marriott because, being relatively new immigrants, they wanted things ''fixed'' -- visas, jobs, business permits -- and Martins is a master at this. If Martins was attending the event, they would join him. They told me they don't have much trust in politicians because they had known the ones back home in India. (''Politicians are like creatures,'' one of them, a computer programmer from Mumbai, said. ''They're like sharks.'') But they were hoping that through their association with Martins, who is on the board of the New Era Democrats, a political club that has endorsed Bloomberg, they might see some results. Martins is a slim, dark man of 40 who looks understandingly at you over the top of his glasses as he speaks. ''Within this week I will solve your problem'' is one of his favorite phrases.
 When I first asked for his card, Martins gave me four. One identified him as an immigration and personal-injury lawyer affiliated with the firm Frenkel, Hershkowitz & Shafran. A second card testified to his role as C.E.O. of Ara Global Trading, ''Importer and Distributor of Exclusive Wines.'' Two others actually belonged to his wife, Maureen Martins, D.D.S., of Bright Smile Dental Care in Flushing and Valley Stream, N.Y. (''We love to see you smile.'') He frequently conducts business out of her offices.
 Martins is not a high-profile mover and shaker in New York City politics. But he does play a role in helping to meet the needs of many of the city's residents -- particularly South Asian immigrants. He is a fixer, an expediter: a link between the vast, anonymous, forbidding face of the system and the immigrant cabby or student or maid, perhaps without papers, fresh off a long-haul flight at J.F.K.
 In the absence of powerful elected officials -- there's not a single South Asian holding a major elected office in New York -- the Indian community has to rely on other conduits to power. Martins fills that role by running a favor bank, brokering the barter of services -- for instance, a largely Indian taxi company agrees to distribute campaign literature in return for his intervention with officials on the Taxi and Limousine Commission. Martins's fees are not made explicit, but the people who come to him are more or less aware of what they need to do to pay him back, because they come from countries where the trading of influence is necessary to survival.
 Historically, every immigrant group that has come to New York has relied on people like Martins: a man of connections, a man you call when your son is caught shoplifting or your cousin needs a visa or your nephew needs a city job. He is not a politician -- not yet, at least -- but he is a political creature. He is the representative who helps new immigrants reach their elected representatives.
 For the politicians whom Martins deals with, the benefits of helping a new immigrant are often not immediately apparent, because most of the immigrants are not citizens and can't vote. But some of these immigrants have money, and many of them will, eventually, become citizens and remember who came to their assistance when they were new to the country. The politicians are also keenly aware that New York's demographics are changing. This year, for the first time in history, non-Hispanic whites make up a minority of the city's voters. Which means that every New York politician seeking citywide office now has to form a coalition: no one can win on the basis of appealing to a single voting bloc, whether it's whites, blacks or Hispanics. Politicians will need the support of the Jains, the Catholics from Goa, the Sikhs -- all the people who turn to Martins to get things fixed.
 ''How's the sick and the dying?'' Marty Golden, a New York state senator, asked Dr. Narmesh Shah on a recent summer day, walking into a pizza parlor next to Golden's Brooklyn office in the 22nd District in Bay Ridge. Martins, who was sitting with Shah, had arranged this meeting between the senator and the doctor, a recent Indian immigrant seeking a fellowship in cardiology at a city hospital. Golden momentarily confused Shah with another doctor that Martins had taken to him for a favor. The senator freely confessed he couldn't keep track of all Martins's clients: ''You bring me so many people, I don't know!''
 Shah was not paying Martins anything for the contact with Golden, though Shah did arrange for a free checkup for a friend of Martins's -- a priest from Goa who lacked health insurance. And Martins was offering nothing to Golden, though in the past Martins has organized registration drives to get Indian and other minority voters, who typically vote Democratic, to cast their ballot for Golden, who is a Republican. After the meeting, Golden wrote a recommendation for Shah to New York Methodist Hospital. Eventually, Shah may be called upon to return the favor that Martins did for him. The payouts in Martins's favor bank are immediate; the fees and deposits can be claimed long into the future.
 Golden, it turned out, had recently returned from a trip to Israel, and Martins knew precisely when the senator left and when he came back. ''Alex knows how to get a hold of me,'' Golden said. When a new immigrant faces problems, the senator explained, Martins is the man to call: ''He knows the numbers to dial. There's nothing wrong with it -- it has been part of the fabric of this country for 200 years.'' Immigrants learn about Martins through word of mouth, from family to family. As Golden put it, ''They learn who are the can-do people.''
 Martins grew up in Mumbai (formerly Bombay), the son of an officer in the merchant marine. He started running a catering business at age 14. Then he started manufacturing bakery equipment (''kneaders, grinders and hollow waffle machines''). Later he ran a nightclub, and when his father, a devout Catholic, found out about the club, he threw Alex out of his house. ''And that's why I left the country,'' Martins says. He had become friendly with the United States consul general in Mumbai, Harry Cahill, who introduced him around at the United States Chamber of Commerce and arranged for his American visa.
 Martins immigrated to New York at 18 and enrolled for a bachelor's degree in finance and marketing at Baruch College. His nightclub experience in India was useful when he got a job as the headwaiter at Michael's Pub in Manhattan. He realized that the city was teeming with business opportunities for immigrants like himself, and he soon opened a Nathan's hot-dog franchise near City Hall.
 But a couple of incidents made Martins realize that the place of immigrants in the city was still precarious. One day, as he recalled it to me, he was riding on the E train and the pages of the newspaper that he was reading brushed against the man seated next to him. The man launched into a diatribe against immigrants. ''Go back to your own country!'' he barked. Martins said that he felt intimidated but that he managed to speak up in his own defense; he said that America was a land of immigrants, and that his fellow passenger didn't have the right to tell Martins to get out. ''Since that time I've wanted to be an immigration attorney,'' Martins said. He later got a law degree from N.Y.U.
 Martins has a keen sense of the hurdles that Indian immigrants face, especially in finding work in city government. When it comes to jobs in administrative offices, Martins says that he has seen that ''always someone else is given a chance. There is always discrimination in the high-level offices. It's how the British and the Portuguese ruled us'' -- that is, by denying Indians higher-level positions in government. Martins decided that he wouldn't be just a run-of-the-mill lawyer; he would help immigrants by aggressively cultivating politicians.
 ''In the Indian community,'' he says, ''there was always a problem: people couldn't approach the politicians the right way. They're not confident.'' He would explain to the Indians he spoke with, ''If they want our support, they need to get our work done.'' He also worked to educate the politicians about Indian culture: who is Ganesh, the elephant-headed Hindu god? What is the Sikh religion? He often took politicians on visits to the Indian community's houses of worship.
 Martins quickly figured out that to deal with what former Mayor David Dinkins once called New York's gorgeous mosaic, you have to wear a gorgeous tie. He showed me a photo from a 2004 fund-raiser for the Congress of Italian-Americans Organization (CIAO), in which he appeared with one arm around Bloomberg and his other around a diminutive Italian grandmother named Mary Crisalli Sansone, the founder of the organization. Martins was sporting a particularly vivid tricolor tie. ''It's not the Italian flag, in fact,'' he confessed, ''but it's close.'' He has ties for his visits to every ethnic community, with an approximation of the colors of their national flags. When he went to meet Manmohan Singh, the Indian prime minister, he wore a tie that sported the green, white and saffron of the Indian flag.
 Not long ago, New York's Jain community had a festival, and Martins arranged an appearance by Louis Gelormino, an attorney who has served in the Giuliani and Bloomberg administrations. The Jains are ideal New Yorkers: nonviolent and rich. They are largely made up of diamond merchants and other entrepreneurs from India, and they follow a religion that mandates extreme pacificism.
 The Jains, though, had some highly specific demands, which they were not shy about expressing to Martins. ''They want beef not to be served in the public schools that their children go to,'' he explained to me. The Jains are also opposed to the eating of eggs, as well as root vegetables like onions, garlic and potatoes, which cannot be uprooted without killing the entire plant. Martins was sympathetic but firm: ''I said to the community leaders, 'This is not possible.' I said, 'It is very difficult to have an eggless cake for you.' '' Martins often serves the function of gently explaining the limits of political power to the communities he works with -- for instance, that New York City is not going to ban hamburgers in the schools any time in the foreseeable future. Still, he managed to restore the Jains' faith in the political system by arranging for city approval for parking outside their temple in Queens.
 New York politicians, knowing Martins's links with the Indian community, often reach out to him with opportunities for his constituency. The Democratic state senator John Sabini was recently walking along the street in Jackson Heights when he saw a Pakistani cabby driving a taxi that was clearly from New Orleans. Sabini flagged down the driver and discovered that the cabby was an evacuee and had his wife and 20-month-old baby with him in the car. Sabini found the cabby hotel accommodations through the city's marketing agency and a job through the owner of a taxi fleet. The taxi-fleet owner has since offered a job to any driver from the Gulf Coast. Shams Tarek, a Bangladeshi immigrant and top aide to Sabini, explains that Sabini's office will actively seek out Martins and ask him ''if he knows any Sikh cabbies, or anybody from the South who's impacted by the hurricane.''
 One of Martins's clients is a car service in Queens, whose drivers are mostly from the Indian subcontinent. He intervenes on their behalf with the Taxi and Limousine Commission, whose leadership Martins is well acquainted with. If you hired one of their cars on the day before the New York primary, you were handed, along with your receipt, a campaign flyer for Renee Lobo, one of the candidates for City Council that Martins is backing. It was a narrowly aimed form of campaign advertising, since the car service operates in her district.
 Despite his deft political touch, Martins has also had some frustrations with the Indian community. Of the community's older, less aggressive leaders, he says: ''They are losers. They come to me when they need work; after the work is done, they forget about me. They are short-term-goal people.'' Still, Martins says that he is hopeful that this situation is changing. He cites the example of Representative Bobby Jindal of Louisiana, an Indian-American who had a realistic chance of becoming governor in the last election. ''We have to get the young people volunteering for political campaigns,'' Martins says. ''I would like to see an Indian mayor of New York.''
 Some in the city are resistant to Martins's charms. ''He's a great self-promoter,'' said a political aide to a state senator who spoke on condition of anonymity because his boss often works with Martins. ''We think he's more talk than substance. He's a name-dropper. He loves to say he's got a direct line to our office. It makes him look good that he can tell someone, 'I can call the senator and it's done.' That's his shtick.''
 And is it indeed done, I asked, when Martins calls the senator's office?
 ''We try to help as many people as we can just for that rainy day when we might need help,'' the aide said. ''We're just trying to build allies.''
 Is self-promotion a bad thing in politics? I asked.
 ''What kind of question is that?'' the aide protested. ''It's all about contacts, and your name getting out there. It's all about going to the dinner or the fund-raiser and someone seeing you across the room and recognizing your face.''
 Recently, in a booth at the Delhi Palace, a restaurant in Jackson Heights that he has been patronizing for years, Martins gathered with three acquaintances to find a job for one of them -- a woman on the Taxi and Limousine Commission who was trying to find a new line of work as a photographer. One of the assembled diners, Terry Lewis, an African-American constituent liaison for Senator Sabini's office, began by noting that every month he gets the ABC Television postings for office jobs, which he offered to make available to the woman.
 The other man at the booth was Sam Gandhi, a cigarette wholesaler who is considering going into the dialysis business with Martins. Lewis told Gandhi, who is always on the lookout for a good business deal, about some economic development areas possibly opening in Harlem and near the junkyards behind Shea Stadium. Gandhi had another business idea: an all-in-one wedding hall for Indians in Jackson Heights. Martins, though, steered him away from the idea of Jackson Heights as a locale, citing the difficulties in arranging for city approval for the parking.
 Gandhi has experienced the benefits of being Martins's friend. He recently paid $100 to attend a fund-raiser for the New Era Democrats, organized by Martins, which was attended by Bloomberg and Raymond W. Kelly, the New York police commissioner. ''I got my picture with Ray Kelly,'' Gandhi said. He put it up in his Queens office. ''I think it works sometimes,'' he said. ''If someone comes to rob me, it might help. If he knows Kelly, he might think, Let me get the hell out of here!''
 Martins took out two bottles of red wine from a bag. Both of the wines were Indian, and one had a picture of an Indian classical dancer on the front. Lewis sampled a wine and pronounced it ''palatable.''
 I asked Martins if he had ever considered entering politics himself. ''If the time comes, I will take the challenge,'' he said. He said he could see himself running in a state or city contest, from neighborhoods like Richmond Hill, Ozone Park or Flushing, which have lots of South Asians.
 Gandhi observed that Martins doesn't charge fees from the people for whom he arranges meetings and does favors. ''He wants to be in public office,'' Gandhi said, ''and this is the way to start, by letting people know he's there for them.''
 So this was the structure of Martins's life in the city: a little business, a little law, a little socializing, a little campaigning. ''I am a wine drinker, and I love the concept of blending,'' Martins said. He brought out a bottle of his latest import, an Australian chardonnay. ''In the day, I love to fight cases, and in the night I have my passionate business.''
 As the level in the wine bottle descended, the conversational range expanded, and the group began discussing topics of national and then international importance. ''I could find bin Laden,'' Martins declared at one point. This would be done, he said, by ''squeezing the bin Laden family.'' He put a hand up in the air and closed his palm. The opinion of the table was that the Bush administration probably knows where bin Laden is but has a vested interest in not capturing him. Martins, though, it was agreed, could find him. If anyone could do it, he could. He could fix it.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Platon)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICS (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CITIES (78%); LAWYERS (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PERSONAL INJURY (70%); REFUGEES (68%); DENTISTRY (64%) Immigration and Refugees; Biographical Information

COMPANY: FRENKEL HERSHKOWITZ & SHAFRAN LLP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: New Era Democrats (Orgn)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%) Suketu Mehta; Alex Martins

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); MUMBAI, INDIA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



64 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds Many Children Don't Benefit From Credits 

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 1 

 BODY:
More than a quarter of American children -- and half of black children -- belong to families too poor to fully qualify for the $1,000-a-year child tax credit, which President Bush signed four years ago and has cited in arguing that his program of sweeping tax cuts helps low-income families, a new study has found.
 The numbers come from an analysis by the Tax Policy Center, a nonpartisan group in Washington, and cast light on an important benefit for working families at a time when the hurricane damage in the Gulf Coast has Mr. Bush and others vowing to address poverty and racial division.
With an annual value of $47 billion, the credit is the government's largest children's subsidy and one that has provoked sharp partisan fights. Many conservatives, viewing it solely as a tax cut, want to reserve the credit for families that owe federal income tax. Many liberals, viewing it as a broader children's allowance, want to extend it to poorer workers, who they say need it most. 
 In 2001, Mr. Bush signed a compromise that extends the credit, in the form of an annual government check, to some working families that earn too little to owe income tax. Still, the study found that the families of 19.5 million children were too poor to receive the full $1,000 benefit. About half get a partial benefit, and half get nothing. More than three-quarters have parents who work.
 While 18 percent of white children are in families too poor to claim the full credit, the figure is 50 percent among black children and 47 percent among Hispanics. The credit pays an average of $721 a year to white children, $564 a year to black children and $638 a year to Hispanic children.
 Tax experts have known that the credit excludes many children, but this analysis is the first to quantify them and sort them by race. It comes as many antipoverty plans are being discussed in Congress, including one co-sponsored by Senators Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, and Blanche Lincoln, Democrat of Arkansas, that would allow more poor workers to receive the cash subsidy.
 ''These aren't people who are lounging around all day,'' said Ms. Lincoln, whose bill would extend the payments to about a million children, at a cost of a little more than $1 billion a year. ''They're working to provide for their families.''
 Told of the study, which will be published Monday, some conservatives repeated their opposition to making the credit more of an antipoverty program. ''This is completely and utterly predictable,'' said Dan Mitchell, an economist at the Heritage Foundation, a Washington research group influential with Capitol Hill Republicans. ''People who don't pay taxes don't get a tax cut.'' 
 Mr. Mitchell said that low-wage workers received a total of $39 billion a year from a similar program, the earned income tax credit. ''It's not like they're not getting any redistribution from the government,'' he said. ''We want less income redistribution, not more.''
 But Newt Gingrich, the former Republican House speaker, expressed surprise at the racial gap. ''That's a stunning number,'' he said, referring to the half of black children who fail to receive the full credit. ''I'd find a way to make sure those kids get the money'' as part of a broader post-Hurricane Katrina plan, he said.
 Framed as middle-class tax relief, the credit passed in 1997 and offered $500 per child to families that owed income tax. It was doubled in 2001 and made partly available to families too poor to have income tax bills.
 While most of the $1.3 trillion in tax cuts passed that year went to wealthy families, Mr. Bush cited the child credit in arguing that tax cuts were ''principled'' and ''compassionate.'' It phases out at incomes above $110,000, meaning the wealthiest families receive nothing.
 Currently, families that earn less than $11,000 are also excluded, so a family with one full-time worker at the minimum wage of $5.15 an hour receives nothing. Above that, families receive $150 for every $1,000 they earn, up to a maximum of $1,000 per child. A family with two children gets the full benefit when its earnings reach about $24,300. 
 The proposal by Senators Snowe and Lincoln adds families by lowering the earnings threshold to $10,000 and barring it from rising with inflation, as it does under current law. For a full-time worker at $7 an hour, the credit would increase this year to $600, from $450. 
 Len Burman, a co-director of the tax center and the study's author, said it might actually exaggerate the amount going to the poor since it assumed all eligible families received the credit. In practice, studies suggest that poor and minority families claim tax credits at lower rates. The center is run by the Brookings Institution and the Urban Institute, two Washington research groups. 
 Both sides in the tax credit debate have cast their arguments in moral terms. ''The income gap is wide and growing,'' Ms. Snowe said. ''We're talking about giving a helping hand to families who through no fault of their own are at or near poverty.''
 David Harris, president of the Children's Research and Education Institute, an advocacy group, said, ''We have a policy that's essentially a children's allowance, but because it's administered through the tax code it leaves out those who need it most.''
 But Mr. Mitchell of the Heritage Foundation said redistributing income was morally problematic, since it punished people for economic success. He also called it economically inefficient, arguing that it discouraged work among both rich and poor. ''I'll make it simple,'' he said. ''We don't want to be like France.''

 $10,000 TO $20,000: 9
 $20,000 TO $30,000: 60
 $30,000 TO $50,000: 95
 $50,000 TO $75,000: 99
 $75,000 TO $100,000: 97
 MORE THAN $100,000: 8

(Source by Tax Policy Center)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Left Out of a Tax Break''More than a quarter of American children -- and about half of black children -- are members of families too poor to qualify for the full $1,000-a-year child tax credit.Percentage of children whose families are eligible for . . .NO CREDITPARTIAL CREDIT(income too low)FULL CREDITPARTIAL OR NO CREDIT(income too high)BLACKNO CREDIT: 28%PARTIAL CREDIT: 21FULL CREDIT: 46PARTIAL OR NO CREDIT: 5WHITENO CREDIT: 9PARTIAL CREDIT: 9FULL CREDIT: 62PARTIAL OR NO CREDIT: 20HISPANICNO CREDIT: 19PARTIAL CREDIT: 27FULL CREDIT: 50PARTIAL OR NO CREDIT: 4ALLNO CREDIT: 14PARTIAL CREDIT: 15FULL CREDIT: 57PARTIAL OR NO CREDIT: 14Percentage of families eligible for full credit, by incomeLESS THAN $10,000: 0

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (92%); FAMILY (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); TAX CONSULTING (72%); HURRICANES (70%); TROPICAL STORMS (70%) 

ORGANIZATION: Tax Policy Center

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (57%); BLANCHE LINCOLN (57%) Jason Deparle; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHEAST USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



65 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 78

LENGTH: 2971 words

HEADLINE: Spitzerism: Is a prosecutor's zeal what the Democrats need?

BYLINE: By Noam Scheiber. 
Noam Scheiber is a senior editor at The New Republic.

 BODY:
If recent history is any guide, Eliot Spitzer's chances of becoming governor of New York next year are greatly enhanced by the presence of the words ''attorney general'' on his resume. Since 2002, Democrats nationwide have won 18 open seats for governor or senator. Six of the winners had served either as state attorney general or United States attorney. Two others were prosecutors before entering politics. Not even mayors or congressmen were as well represented.
Prosecutors are in a natural position to project toughness, which helps Democratic candidates counter the soft-on-crime reputation that their party, rightly or not, bears. Moreover, middle-class white voters tend to desert Democrats when they seem beholden to organized groups like teachers' unions or trial lawyers. These same voters tend to equate prosecutorial experience with independence from special interests, according to Celinda Lake, a pollster for Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona. Lake says this helps explain how Napolitano, a former U.S. attorney and Democratic attorney general, fared unusually well among white men en route to winning the governor's mansion in 2002. 
 To see that Spitzer could benefit from a similar dynamic next year, you need only consider the polling data. The Democrats' perceived lack of toughness is one reason they typically fare significantly better among women than men. But perceptions of Spitzer, the archetypal enforcer, differ starkly from those of other New York Democrats, even popular ones like Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Charles E. Schumer. All three politicians have approval ratings in the neighborhood of 60 percent among the state's voters. But where Schumer and Clinton poll anywhere from 2 to 30 points better among women than among men, Spitzer routinely posts a 4- to 14-point gap in the other direction. 
 Spitzer, of course, isn't simply the beneficiary of this prosecutorial model; he helped create it. The attention surrounding his investigations of Wall Street revealed a popular hunger for taking on corporate fraud. Perhaps more important, the investigations highlighted the appeal of standing up for the ordinary investor -- the middle-class person saving for retirement or for a child's education -- against entrenched business interests. And so, not surprisingly, Spitzer has been imitated by other attorneys general. Thomas F. Reilly of Massachusetts and Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut, who are leading contenders to become governor of their respective states, are conducting their own investigations of insurance brokerages, an industry Spitzer has embarrassed with revelations of wrongdoing. While serving as Colorado's attorney general, Ken Salazar joined Spitzer in an investigation of Janus Capital Group, the Denver-based mutual fund. He went on to win a U.S. Senate seat in a state that George W. Bush carried. 
 Another measure of Spitzer's influence is the virulence of his critics. The Wall Street Journal editorial page, which frequently rails against ''the Lord High New York Executioner,'' has complained that Spitzer ''attacks entire businesses and business practices, whether or not he can prove any individual culpability in court.'' Grover Norquist, the anti-tax activist, views Spitzer as little more than a shakedown artist who extorts settlements from companies under the threat of indictment -- more Alabama sheriff than New York prosecutor. This also accurately describes the sentiment in some corners of Wall Street, which could end up funneling tens of millions of dollars toward Spitzer's likely opponent next year, William Weld, the former Massachusetts governor who now lives in New York.
 But while Spitzer's approach -- call it Spitzerism -- has infuriated Republican critics and helped individual Democrats win statewide office, so far it hasn't meant much to the Democratic Party as a whole. The Democrats, after all, remain shut out of power in Washington. Which raises a question that more and more Democrats are asking: is Spitzerism useful only in the narrow context of Democratic law-enforcement officials running for higher office? Or is there, lurking somewhere in Spitzer's experience, an approach that Democrats around the country could mine for political success? 
 Since his early days as attorney general, Spitzer has practiced a brand of prosecutorial politics that is less about securing indictments of evildoers than about shining a light on structural defects in corporate institutions.
 In 1999, his first year in office, Spitzer intervened in a case involving a handful of coal-burning power plants in Ohio, Indiana and West Virginia. The plants had been exploiting a provision of the Clean Air Act that allowed them to avoid investing in pollution-reducing equipment under the assumption that they would soon be shuttered. Instead, the plants kept expanding, and their emissions contributed to chronic acid rain in states like New York and Connecticut. Spitzer broke a logjam in negotiations between the Northeastern states and the Environmental Protection Agency, on one side, and the power plants on the other by announcing his intention to haul the utility companies into court. Spitzer's lawyers spent six months collecting evidence against the power plants. All in all it looked more like a sting operation than an environmental case. Several of the companies eventually backed down. 
 This reflected a kind of toughness, but not the kind associated with Rudy Giuliani, with whom Spitzer is often compared. As United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, Giuliani saw white-collar crime as a product of personal immorality, and he went after the perpetrators with relish. Spitzer tends to see wrongdoing as the product of both moral failing and lousy incentives. In Spitzer's mind, the reason the power plants produced too much pollution wasn't that their owners were evil; it was that neither they nor their customers were forced to pay the cost of polluting. Spitzer wasn't looking to put the utility companies out of business. He just wanted the loophole closed. 
 Politically, this approach has several advantages. Attorneys general are, by definition, law enforcers. But Spitzer expands this template: he casts himself not just as an enforcer of the law per se, but also as an enforcer of a broader social compact between ordinary people and large institutions like government and business. 
 In this way, Spitzer taps the same themes that worked so well for Bill Clinton. Clinton famously spoke up for ''people who work hard and play by the rules.'' Spitzer styles himself a scourge of people and companies that don't. These are really two sides of the same coin. ''It's not an entitlement politics,'' says David Axelrod, a consultant to Spitzer's 2002 re-election campaign. ''It's a fairness politics, a let-everyone-compete-on-the-same-playing-field politics.'' 
 Spitzer's actions as attorney general have also avoided a trap Democrats often fall into when they take on business, which is to appear as if they're punishing success. ''Voters don't mind people getting rich if they've earned it,'' says Guy Molyneux, a Democratic pollster who works closely with labor groups. What does bother voters, Molyneux says, is when the wealthy acquire their riches using opportunities that aren't available to average people. Gene Sperling, the chief economic adviser in the Clinton White House, says that Spitzer grasps this distinction: ''The key in the Spitzer message is. . .it's not a populist bashing for the sake of it.'' It's telling, for example, that Spitzer has so far resisted indicting a single company despite exposing case after case of corruption. (Indeed, to the extent that Spitzer has critics on the left, they mostly complain that he doesn't punish companies aggressively enough.)
 To understand how Spitzerism could fit into the future of the Democratic Party, you have to look at a debate that has been raging within the party over the last five years. The conventional wisdom on Clinton's presidency was that it marked the return of Democrats as the party of the middle class -- particularly the white middle class. (Although in 1992 Clinton didn't improve on Michael Dukakis's share of the white middle-class vote.) Since then, the Democrats have suffered a series of disappointments. Al Gore lost the white middle class by 15 points in 2000, according to Ruy Teixeira, a political scientist at the Center for American Progress. Then Kerry lost it by an even larger margin in 2004 -- 22 points. A recent report by Third Way, a center-left advocacy group based in Washington, points out that, in current dollars, the income level below which whites were more likely to vote Democratic in presidential elections dropped to $23,300 in 2004 from $25,300 in 2000; in 1996, that threshold was $49,700. Above that whites were more likely to vote Republican.
 Today, not surprisingly, the party's major preoccupation is figuring out how to reconnect with these voters. ''There is. . .kind of a macro battle within the party about how we talk to middle-class voters,'' says Anthony D. Weiner, the congressman from New York who recently ran in the city's mayoral primary, ''how to show we're the party, economically, of the middle class.'' In addition to groups like Third Way that have sprung up to address this question, congressional Democrats have created a group, within the Senate's Democratic Policy Committee, that will generate ideas specifically to appeal to middle-class voters.
 Spitzer surely understands that he is operating in this context. ''It was the Democratic Party historically that did so much to create the middle class,'' he said in a speech to the National Press Club this past January. ''Hopefully, protecting the middle class. . .will be a bigger part of our message in the future.'' He has unquestionably influenced the debate. Democratic Policy Committee staff members watch his actions closely and have had periodic conversations with his pollster, Jef Pollock. Jonathan Cowan, president of Third Way, says that Spitzer has tapped into a ''political goldmine'' and could ''help lead the Democrats out of the political wilderness.'' 
 The problem is that Republicans are adept at persuading middle-class voters that their economic interests actually align with the interests of big business. So, for example, Republicans argue that large malpractice awards that hurt insurance companies also drive up health-care costs for ordinary people. Or that safety regulations that make factories less profitable also cost jobs. More recently, Republicans have argued that taxes and regulations on corporations hurt middle-class people in another way: by decreasing the value of their shares of stock, which an increasing number of middle-class people own. (More than 50 percent of voters own stock in some form.) And there's apparently an appeal to this. John Zogby, an independent pollster, has shown that among just about every demographic group, investors are more likely to vote Republican than noninvestors are. 
 Spitzer's strength has been to tap another, overlooked interest of this ''investor class'': in addition to owning shares of companies, investors are also consumers of financial information. Truthful financial reporting by public corporations helps investors make informed decisions; without it, the capitalist enterprise ultimately unravels. Spitzer recognizes the Republican vulnerability on this point. The most obvious example is his investigation of Merrill Lynch, the brokerage firm whose analysts were found to have promoted stocks they knew to be worthless. Republicans ''portray our efforts as bureaucratic meddling in free markets,'' Spitzer wrote in the The New Republic last November. ''But we did not investigate Wall Street because we were troubled by large institutions making a lot of money; we took action to stop a blatant fraud that was ripping off small investors.''
 Spitzer seems to point the way in helping the party appeal to these voters. ''His advocacy on behalf of a growing and new class of investors could have wide applicability,'' says Howard Wolfson, a former Democratic Congressional strategist and an adviser to Hillary Clinton. Even some Republicans concede that middle-class investors value regulations designed to make the stock market transparent. ''Obviously investors want to make sure they are protected, that they have all information they need to make intelligent investment decisions,'' says Matthew Dowd, the top pollster for the Bush campaign in 2000 and 2004 and a student of the investor class. But Dowd argues that this is a strikingly narrow platform. Some people will vote for a candidate based on his opposition to, say, abortion and gay marriage, but would anyone vote for a candidate because of his position on regulating 10-K filings? 
 The effect of stock ownership operates on a broader level, Dowd argues, imbuing investors with a greater appreciation for private enterprise and individual choice. This, at least, is the theory behind the Bush administration's call for an ''ownership society,'' in which people, by virtue of home ownership and initiatives like Social Security privatization and health savings accounts, come to rely on themselves more and government less. Over time, according to Dowd, this makes them less sympathetic to taxes and regulations. ''People have mistakenly said, 'Target the investor class,' '' Dowd says. ''You can't target the investor class. It's more that you have to. . .make sure you don't get out of sync with a majority of the population.''
 But Spitzer's emphasis on making companies more accountable could have broader resonance than Dowd assumes. It speaks to a widely felt anxiety on the part of the investing middle class: the sense that their financial situation is less stable than ever before. Jacob Hacker, a Yale University political scientist, found that the income of the average family was about twice as volatile in 2000 as it was in the 1970's -- a result of rising health and education costs, the increasing rate at which people change jobs and the shift from pensions with guaranteed benefits to 401(k)'s. An increase in volatility tends to make people feel more anxious because of a phenomenon behavioral researchers refer to as loss aversion. People tend to dislike losses of income they already have vastly more than they like gains of equal magnitude. 
 How does this play out politically? One question on the exit poll in the 2000 presidential election asked respondents who they wanted to see take a larger role in solving the nation's problems -- government or business and individuals. According to an analysis by Ruy Teixeira, middle-class voters who owned stock in some form were 5 percentage points more likely to favor a larger role for government than middle-class voters who didn't. One possible implication of this data could be that when politicians like Spitzer go after companies that commit stock-market fraud, middle-class voters don't just see it as a marginal improvement in the quality of the financial information they're getting, as Dowd suggests. They see it as decreasing the chance that their savings will be wiped out.
 Even Democrats otherwise skeptical of the breadth of Spitzer's appeal are sympathetic to this approach. Robert Gordon, the chief policy adviser to John Edwards's presidential campaign, worries that Spitzer's efforts on behalf of shareholders are too complicated for most voters to appreciate. Nonetheless, he argues that there is much to be gained from broadening the discussion to encompass middle-class economic anxieties in the way Spitzer has hinted at. ''Probably the most promising angle is to talk about middle-class security, prosperity,'' he says. 
 Cowan of Third Way is less coy. ''At the heart of our economic issues in the next couple of generations, as we continue to globalize, risk is going to be the defining concept,'' he says. ''I think that if Spitzer is able to translate the particular work he did around risk associated with investment in the stock market. . .into a larger narrative for Democrats about risk in the 21st century'' -- not just stock-market risk but risk associated with pensions, health care, employment -- that ''could help forge the bond with the middle class that we've lost.''
 Of course, a message about anxiety might backfire, playing into the stereotype of Democrats as naysayers and pessimists. As Republicans point out, risk can be best understood as the price of making money. Americans may dislike losses more than they like gains, but they still like gains quite a bit. Sperling, the author of ''The Pro-Growth Progressive,'' which will be published early next month, shares these concerns. ''When progressives latch onto both policy and politically attractive negative messages. . .without a more positive investor-wealth-creation counterpart,'' he says, ''it can just make it look like we're the guys here to critique the market as opposed to champion your ability to invest.'' Sperling suggests that Democrats not only embrace laws designed to safeguard pensions but also create tax incentives and subsidies to help middle-class people invest for themselves. 
 Spitzer, as it happens, is naturally inclined to strike this balance. One of his favorite phrases is ''capital formation.'' He frequently invokes the word ''opportunity,'' as when he described his investigations of Wall Street as an effort to ensure ''that every investor enjoys the same opportunity to profit that the insiders have.'' If you had to distill Spitzerism into a single expression, it might very well be something like: ''Making risk work for the middle class.'' Getting that message across may be just as important to the Democratic Party as it is to Spitzer himself.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Platon)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (95%); GOVERNORS (91%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MEN (76%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); MUTUAL FUNDS (66%); PERSONAL FINANCE (60%); TEACHER UNIONS (54%); INSURANCE (50%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (50%) Biographical Information

COMPANY: JANUS CAPITAL GROUP INC (50%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

TICKER: JNS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JANET NAPOLITANO (73%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (57%); KEN SALAZAR (57%) Noam Scheiber; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005



66 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Benefactors of Great Wealth

BYLINE: By TODD G. BUCHHOLZ. 
Todd G. Buchholz, an economic adviser in the White House of George H. W. Bush, is the author of ''Bringing the Jobs Home.''

 BODY:
THE TYCOONS
 How Andrew Carnegie, 
 John D. Rockefeller, Jay Gould, and J. P. Morgan Invented 
 the American Supereconomy.
 By Charles R. Morris.
 Illustrated. 382 pp. Times Books/ Henry Holt & Company. $28.
BILL GATES should rush out today and buy a calendar for the year 2100. Judging by Charles R. Morris's new book, ''The Tycoons,'' it takes about 100 years for maligned monopolists and ''robber barons'' to morph into admirable innovators. 
 Morris skillfully assembles a great deal of academic and anecdotal research to demonstrate that Andrew Carnegie, John D. Rockefeller, Jay Gould and J. P. Morgan did not amass their fortunes by trampling on the downtrodden or ripping off consumers -- though he does concede that Carnegie and Gould could be scoundrels in their personal lives. Carnegie, whom Morris calls ''repellently smarmy,'' comes off like someone auditioning for the lead in ''What Makes Sammy Run?'' He proclaimed himself a pacifist, but he ''chased after war contracts, after promising his wife he never would, and then cheated to get them.'' Despite such flip-flops, Morris insists that, by and large, the money these tycoons amassed came from their brains and guts, not from the spilled blood of exploited workers and competitors.
 He is mostly right. Start with John D. Rockefeller's notorious predatory pricing, widely believed to have driven competitors to ruin. The famed muckraker Ida Tarbell turned a series in McClure's Magazine into a journalistic classic by reporting his dastardly actions. She spoke from almost firsthand experience, since her father's small refinery was undermined by Rockefeller's Standard Oil. 
 Economists have picked apart Standard Oil's bookkeeping entries and concluded that, in fact, Rockefeller paid fair sums for the companies he bought and undercut prices by brilliantly increasing efficiency. Rockefeller's competitors were scattershot operations. He beat them by building his own pipelines, manufacturing his own barrels and negotiating volume discounts with the railroads. He might have had the ''soul of a bookkeeper,'' as Tarbell put it, but his green eyeshade created bargains for consumers, who were switching from whale-oil lamps to kerosene. Families saw their kerosene costs plummet by 60 percent during the 1880's. Families across America today, who are forking over a fortune for gasoline, would probably applaud such robber-baron pricing. 
 Morris also portrays Andrew Carnegie and Jay Gould as ace businessmen, though less scrupulously honest than Rockefeller. Carnegie breathlessly pursued lower steel costs. Others may have tossed away steel scrapings; he threw them back into the pot. Carnegie, who came to America from Scotland as a boy, used stereotypical Scottish thriftiness to dominate the steel industry in the United States. And not just in the United States. Carnegie Steel ultimately outproduced all of Britain's steelmakers, who had long disdained the American manufacturers as stumblebums.
 It's harder to make a hero of Gould, the hunched, brooding railroad magnate who tried to corner the gold market. Morris quotes Henry Adams's description of him as ''a spider'' who ''spun huge webs, in corners and in the dark.'' A Wall Street insider said Gould's ''touch is of death.'' But Morris, who harbors no grudges, reminds us that Gould, far from looting the railroads he acquired, often poured more money into them. If he was a robber baron, he was robbing himself along with everyone else.
 A lawyer and former banker, Morris does an impressive job reporting on the complicated machinations of the railroad and steel industries during this time of upheaval. But ''The Tycoons'' is not a path-breaking work of scholarship, testing new hypotheses against freshly uncovered facts. Morris acknowledges his debt to the biographer Ron Chernow, among others. What is more, many chapters go by with hardly a mention of the tycoons themselves, who tend to drift in and out of the book like Hollywood stars making cameo appearances on old episodes of ''The Love Boat.'' 
 J. P. Morgan barely even shows up until nearly the end of the book. And when he does, Morris admits he wasn't much of an innovator. Instead, he was a stodgy young man who turned into a stodgy old man. In fact, Morgan didn't actually like innovators, because they sparked unsettling competition. Upstart entrepreneurs, they seldom knew which fork went with the salad at the club.
 Though Morris only hints at it, the truth is that the real heroes of the American industrial revolution were not his four featured tycoons, but the American people themselves. I don't mean this to sound like a corny burst of patriotism. In the 19th century, the United States was still young. Most families had either been booted out of Europe or fled it, and they didn't care about tradition or the Old Guard. With little to lose, they were willing to bet on a roll of the dice, even if it was they who occasionally got rolled. Europe was encrusted with guilds, unions and unbendable rules. Britons took half a day to make a rifle stock, because 40 different tradesmen poked their noses into the huddle. American companies polished off new rifle stocks in 22 minutes.
 The United States still holds an edge in its openness to innovation. In 1982, French farmers literally chased the French agriculture minister, Edith Cresson, off their fields with pitchforks because she suggested reform. By contrast, back in the late 1850's, Abraham Lincoln was a hot after-dinner speaker. Was he discussing slavery? No. The title of his talk was ''Discoveries and Inventions.'' The real root of economic growth is not natural resources or weather or individual genius. It's attitude, not latitude. The Austrian economist Joseph Schumpeter called innovations gales of ''creative destruction.'' Americans, not Europeans, had the gall to stare into those gales -- with optimism.


GRAPHIC: Photos: All the robber barons were young once. Upper row, John D. Rockefeller (left) and J. P. Morgan. Lower row, Jay Gould (left) and Andrew Carnegie. (Photographs from ''The Tycoons'')

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (85%); LITERATURE (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%)

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (94%); BILL GATES (73%) Todd G Buchholz; Charles R Morris; Andrew (1835-1919) Carnegie; John D (1839-1937) Rockefeller; Jay (1836-92) Gould; J P (1837-1913) Morgan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (70%); SCOTLAND (65%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2005



67 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; DRILLING DOWN; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 315 words

HEADLINE: LOOKING AHEAD

 BODY:
JOBS, JOBS, JOBS -- Only probably fewer of them this time. The nonfarm payroll survey due Friday is likely to show a net decline in jobs in September for the first time in more than two years. Blame Hurricane Katrina in part for the loss, although the rebuilding effort is creating work for lots of people, too. Expect the September unemployment rate, also being reported Friday, to tick up from August's 4.9 percent, but with the economy continuing to roll along despite storms and oil shortages, not by much. A good bet would be 5 percent. 
 OTHER VITAL SIGNS -- The ISM Manufacturing Index for September, being released today, will probably show some slippage from August. Construction spending for August and car sales for September are also being reported today. Statistics on factory orders for August and chain store retail sales for September will be coming out tomorrow and jobless claims figures will be reported on Thursday.
 A WHOLE NEW GAME -- Professional hockey returns Wednesday after a canceled season, and the big question for advertisers is how many Americans will tune in to watch. OLN (formerly Outdoor Life Network) from Comcast will carry the National Hockey League games to 64 million households and sell rights to other cable and satellite systems. New rules, like lighter gear for goalies and shootouts to break ties, are supposed to make the sport more exciting. Conductor, a movie-marketing company in Los Angeles, is running the ad campaign.
 BLUEPRINT FOR GROWTH -- China's Communist leaders will open a four-day meeting on Friday to map economic policy for the next five years. Members of the party's Central Committee are expected to endorse the free-market reforms that have transformed China into an economic powerhouse over the last decade, while taking initiatives to narrow the growing income gap between the prosperous cities and the impoverished countryside.


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); HURRICANE KATRINA (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (75%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); RETAIL SALES (74%); RETAILERS (74%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (72%); CABLE INDUSTRY (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (69%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: OUTDOOR LIFE NETWORK (55%)

ORGANIZATION: DALLAS STARS (55%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (55%); EDMONTON OILERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2005



68 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; ALL CONSUMING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: A Time for Some Well-Placed Greed

BYLINE: By David Leonhardt

 BODY:
SOMETIME next spring, when the snow melts away, a good number of homeowners will start to think about building a new outdoor deck or adding a room to their house. Around the same time, the reconstruction of New Orleans should be in full swing. 
 Both projects will need lumber, nails and manpower, and most everyone can probably agree that New Orleans deserves priority. Houses and schools should be rebuilt there before the rest of the country spiffs up its yards. A new deck can wait a year. A destroyed home cannot. 
 Fortunately, the economy has a system for persuading the rest of us to step aside and let New Orleans have the lumber. You've probably heard of it. It's called price gouging.
 After Hurricane Katrina blew through the Gulf Coast, the price of lumber and other building materials shot up. Demand for these items was suddenly higher, and the people who sell them knew that they could charge more. So they did, in what seemed to be -- and may, in fact, have been -- an act of pure greed.
 But it was also an act that had some clear benefits for society. With the cost of renovations now higher, some homeowners will delay their projects until the prices come back down. That will make more materials available for New Orleans and will also help reduce prices. It's the market economy's version of a virtuous cycle.
 But it does not feel very virtuous while it is happening, which is why it goes by unpleasant names like gouging and profiteering. Try coming up with a rule that separates evil gouging from efficient pricing, however, and you're likely to run into a thicket of trouble.
 As everybody knows, the price of gasoline also spiked after Hurricane Katrina. The details were different -- supply shrank, rather than demand rising -- but the dynamic was essentially the same as with lumber. When there was not enough gas to go around, it suddenly became more expensive.
 Elected officials were quick to cry gouging. The Republican governors of Georgia, Kentucky and Missouri took steps to limit price increases. New Jersey sued about 20 gas stations for raising their prices more than once on a single day, a violation of state law. 
 ''Companies that prey on hard-working families through fraudulent practices should feel the full force of the law,'' Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey, of New Jersey, a Democrat, said last week. ''Katrina was a devastating hurricane, not a financial windfall for the shameless.''
 Suing gas stations may be good politics, but discussions of gouging make many economists squeamish. Judith A. Chevalier, an economist at Yale, was having lunch with some colleagues last week when the talk turned to gouging, and they struggled even for a definition. 
 ''We came up with so absurdly narrow a definition that I'm embarrassed to describe it,'' she said. (If you must know, it involved a desert, a group of people stranded there and a river to which only one of them had access.)
 Laws against gouging usually spring from good intentions, like wanting to keep money in the pockets of American workers instead of Saudi princes. In practice, though, the rules tend to create problems by muffling the useful signals that prices send. A law that forbids two price increases in one day, for example, may cause a gas station to close when prices are rising rapidly and then reopen in the morning, when it can charge more. ''That's just insane,'' said Ms. Chevalier.
 A better solution is usually to tinker with people's ability to pay for something rather than with the price. If we want the residents of a destroyed city to afford the reconstruction of their houses, we should pay for it directly, rather than cap the price of wood and create lines for lumber. 
 If gas is going to cost $3 a gallon for the foreseeable future, government officials may do better to raise the take-home pay of low-income families with tax credits than to police gas station prices. Those families could then afford their drive to work, but rich and poor alike would still need to be more discerning about when they drove. The person who was planning to take a long trip to visit a friend might have lunch with a neighbor instead, leaving more gas available for somebody making a 100-mile drive to go to work or to see a doctor. 
 That trip would now cost more than it did before a couple of hurricanes idled refineries in the Gulf of Mexico. But what is the alternative? You could outlaw all price increases -- not just those insidious ones that happen on the same day -- but that would risk long gas lines, because demand would not change with supply.
 ''In all these situations, there's not enough to go around,'' Russell Roberts, an economist at George Mason University in Fairfax, Va., said. ''The question is who should get it.''
 A decade ago, the answer was: not Mr. Roberts. He was teaching at Washington University in St. Louis, and he and his wife were in fact thinking about building a deck on the back of their house. The architect had originally given them one estimate. When it came time to move ahead, the contractors quoted them prices that were about twice as high.
 The Mississippi River floods of the mid-1990's had intervened, destroying homes and increasing the demand for carpenters' time. So the Roberts family waited until the price came down. 
 The effect was the same, however. The resources went where they were most needed. And carpenters had an incentive to work extra hours after the flooding because they were getting paid more, just as floating gas prices give oil companies a reason to stock up before a storm. 
 There are certainly situations where freely floating prices don't work. A wealthy person with a broken arm should not be able to outbid a middle-class heart attack victim for the immediate attention of an emergency room doctor. Replacement kidneys should not be up for auction. Safe passage out of a flooded city seems like a reasonable thing for all citizens to expect.
 But a guaranteed right to cedar decking that costs no more than $1 a foot? Or to gas prices that change only once a day? They probably do not belong on the list.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lonni Sue Johnson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); HURRICANES (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); GAS STATIONS (88%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (77%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); BUSINESS TORTS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%); FAMILY (70%); GOVERNORS (66%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (66%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2005



69 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3461 words

PERSON: August Wilson

HEADLINE: August Wilson, Theater's Poet Of Black America, Is Dead at 60

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
August Wilson, who chronicled the African-American experience in the 20th century in a series of plays that will stand as a landmark in the history of black culture, of American literature and of Broadway theater, died yesterday at a hospital in Seattle. He was 60 and lived in Seattle. 
 The cause was liver cancer, said his assistant, Dena Levitin. Mr. Wilson's cancer was diagnosed in the summer, and his illness was made public last month.
''Radio Golf,'' the last of the 10 plays that constitute Mr. Wilson's majestic theatrical cycle, opened at the Yale Repertory Theater last spring and has subsequently been produced in Los Angeles. It was the concluding chapter in a spellbinding story that began more than two decades ago, when Mr. Wilson's play ''Ma Rainey's Black Bottom'' had its debut at the same theater, in 1984, and announced the arrival of a major talent, fully matured. 
 Reviewing the play's Broadway premiere for The New York Times, Frank Rich wrote that in ''Ma Rainey,'' Mr. Wilson ''sends the entire history of black America crashing down upon our heads.''
 ''This play is a searing inside account of what white racism does to its victims,'' Mr. Rich continued, ''and it floats on the same authentic artistry as the blues music it celebrates.''
 In the years since ''Ma Rainey'' appeared, Mr. Wilson collected innumerable accolades for his work, including seven New York Drama Critics' Circle awards, a Tony Award, for 1987's ''Fences,'' and two Pulitzer Prizes, for ''Fences'' and ''The Piano Lesson,'' from 1990.
 ''He was a giant figure in American theater,'' the playwright Tony Kushner said yesterday. ''Heroic is not a word one uses often without embarrassment to describe a writer or playwright, but the diligence and ferocity of effort behind the creation of his body of work is really an epic story.
 ''The playwright's voice in American culture is perceived as having been usurped by television and film, but he reasserted the power of drama to describe large social forces, to explore the meaning of an entire people's experience in American history. For all the magic in his plays, he was writing in the grand tradition of Eugene O'Neill and Arthur Miller, the politically engaged, direct, social realist drama. He was reclaiming ground for the theater that most people thought had been abandoned.''
 To honor his achievements, Broadway's Virginia Theater is to be renamed the August Wilson Theater. The new marquee is to be unveiled Oct. 17.
 With the exceptions of ''Radio Golf'' and ''Jitney,'' a play first produced in St. Paul in 1981 and reworked and presented Off Broadway in 2000, all of the plays in the cycle were ultimately seen on Broadway, the sometimes treacherous but all-important commercial marketplace for American theater. Although some were not financial successes there, ''Fences,'' which starred James Earl Jones, set a record for a nonmusical Broadway production when it grossed $11 million in a single year, and ran for 525 performances. Together, Mr. Wilson's plays logged nearly 1,800 performances on Broadway in a little more than two decades, and they have been seen in more than 2,000 separate productions, amateur and professional.
 Each of the plays in the cycle was set in a different decade of the 20th century, and all but ''Ma Rainey'' took place in the impoverished but vibrant African-American Hill District of Pittsburgh, where Mr. Wilson was born. In 1978, before he had become a successful writer, Mr. Wilson moved to St. Paul, and in 1994 he settled in Seattle, where he died. But his spiritual home remained the rough streets of the Hill District, where as a young man he sat in thrall to the voices of African-American working men and women. Years later, he would discern in their stories, their jokes and their squabbles the raw material for an art that would celebrate the sustaining richness of the black American experience, bruising as it often was. 
 In his work, Mr. Wilson depicted the struggles of black Americans with uncommon lyrical richness, theatrical density and emotional heft, in plays that gave vivid voices to people on the frayed margins of life: cabdrivers and maids, garbagemen and side men and petty criminals. In bringing to the popular American stage the gritty specifics of the lives of his poor, trouble-plagued and sometimes powerfully embittered black characters, Mr. Wilson also described universal truths about the struggle for dignity, love, security and happiness in the face of often overwhelming obstacles.
 In dialogue that married the complexity of jazz to the emotional power of the blues, he also argued eloquently for the importance of black Americans' honoring the pain and passion in their history, not burying it to smooth the road to assimilation. For Mr. Wilson, it was imperative for black Americans to draw upon the moral and spiritual nobility of their ancestors' struggles to inspire their own ongoing fight against the legacies of white racism.
 In an article about his cycle for The Times in 2000, Mr. Wilson wrote, ''I wanted to place this culture onstage in all its richness and fullness and to demonstrate its ability to sustain us in all areas of human life and endeavor and through profound moments of our history in which the larger society has thought less of us than we have thought of ourselves.''
 Mr. Wilson did not establish the chronological framework of his cycle until after the work had begun, and he skipped around in time. Although ''Radio Golf,'' the last play to be written, was set in the 1990's, ''Gem of the Ocean,'' which immediately preceded it in production (it came to Broadway in the fall of 2004), was set in the first decade of the 20th century.
 His first success, ''Ma Rainey,'' which took place in a Chicago recording studio in 1927, depicted the turbulent relationship between a rich but angry blues singer and a brilliant trumpet player who also wants to succeed in the white-dominated world of commercial music. From there Mr. Wilson turned to the 1950's, with ''Fences,'' his most popular play, about a garbageman and former baseball player in the Negro leagues who clashes with his son over the boy's intention to pursue a career in sports. His next play, ''Joe Turner's Come and Gone,'' considered by many to be the finest of his works, was a quasi-mystical drama set in a boardinghouse in 1911. It told of a man newly freed from illegal servitude searching to find the woman who abandoned him.
 The other plays in Mr. Wilson's theatrical opus are ''The Piano Lesson,'' set in 1936, in which a brother and sister argue over the fate of the piano that symbolizes the family's anguished past history; ''Two Trains Running,'' concerning an ex-con re-ordering his life in 1969; ''Seven Guitars,'' about a blues musician on the brink of a career breakthrough in 1948; ''Jitney,'' a collage of the everyday doings at a gypsy cab company in 1977; and ''King Hedley II,'' in which another troubled ex-con searches for redemption as the Hill District crumbles under the onslaught of Reaganomics in 1985.
 As the cycle developed, Mr. Wilson knit the plays together through overlapping themes and characters. Many of the primary conflicts concern the dueling prerogatives of characters poised between the traumatizing past and the uncertain future. The central character in ''Radio Golf'' is the grandson of a character in ''Gem of the Ocean.'' The guiding spiritof the cycle came to be Aunt Esther, a woman said to have lived for more than three centuries, who was referred to in several plays and who appeared at last in ''Gem.'' She embodied the continuity of spiritual and moral values that Mr. Wilson felt was crucial to the black experience, uniting the descendants of slaves to their African ancestors. 

A Fruitful Partnership
 Mr. Wilson's career was closely linked with that of Lloyd Richards, who became the first black director to work on Broadway when he staged the first play written by a black woman to be produced on Broadway, Lorraine Hansberry's ''Raisin in the Sun,'' in 1959. Ms. Hansberry's warmhearted but clear-eyed play about the struggles of a black family to move up the economic ladder in Chicago shares with Mr. Wilson's work a focus on the daily lives of black Americans, relegating the oppressions of white culture to the background.
 Mr. Richards, the dean of the Yale School of Drama and the artistic director of Yale Repertory Theater from 1979 to 1991, was also the head of the Eugene O'Neill Playwrights Conference in Connecticut when Mr. Wilson submitted ''Ma Rainey'' to the program. (''Jitney,'' begun in 1979, had been submitted and rejected twice.) When it was accepted, Mr. Richards helped refine the work of the then-unknown writer and first produced and directed it at Yale Rep, where its success instantly established Mr. Wilson as an American playwright of singular talent, perhaps the greatest American stage poet since Tennessee Williams.
 Mr. Richards would help shape and direct the next five plays in Mr. Wilson's cycle, ending with ''Seven Guitars,'' which arrived on Broadway in 1996. Each play was refined through a series of productions at Yale and other regional theaters before moving to New York. (Most grew significantly shorter along the way: Mr. Wilson's work was most often criticized for excessive length and sometimes belaboring its ideas. In a celebratory review Mr. Rich wrote when ''Joe Turner'' opened on Broadway, he nevertheless noted, ''As usual with Mr. Wilson, the play overstates its thematic exposition in an overlong first act.'')
 This formula replicated in a noncommercial arena the tryout circuit that had once been commonplace for plays aiming for Broadway, a method of development that ran aground as the costs of theater skyrocketed. The process, which also involved Mr. Wilson's longtime producer, Benjamin Mordecai, the managing director of Yale Rep during much of Mr. Richards's tenure, was important in defining a healthy and mutually beneficial relationship between the country's not-for-profit regional theaters and its Broadway-centered commercial establishment. (Mr. Mordecai, who was involved with all of Mr. Wilson's plays in one capacity or another, died earlier this year.) More significantly, the collaboration between Mr. Richards and Mr. Wilson was the most artistically fruitful in American theatrical history since Elia Kazan's association with Arthur Miller and Williams.

An Atypical Education
 Mr. Wilson was born Frederick August Kittel on April 27, 1945, in Pittsburgh. He was named for his father, a white German immigrant who worked as a baker, drank too much and had a fiery temperament his son would inherit. He was mostly an absence in Mr. Wilson's childhood, and it was his African-American mother, Daisy Wilson, who instilled in her six children a strong sense of pride and a limited tolerance for injustice. (She once turned down a washing machine she had won in a contest when the company sponsoring the event tried to fob off a secondhand item on her.) Mr. Wilson legally adopted her last name when he set out to become a writer.
 Eventually Mrs. Wilson divorced Mr. Wilson's father and remarried, and the family moved to a largely white suburb. As the only black student in his class at a Roman Catholic high school, Mr. Wilson gained an awareness of the grinding ugliness of racism that would inform his work. ''There was a note on my desk every single day,'' he told The New Yorker in 2001. ''It said, 'Go home, nigger.''' Mr. Wilson attended two more schools but gave up on formal education when a teacher accused him of plagiarizing a paper on Napoleon. At 15, he chose to continue -- but essentially to begin -- his education on his own, spending his days at the local library absorbing books by the dozen.
 Mr. Wilson acquired an equally valuable education outside the library walls, hanging out and listening to the Hill District denizens pass the time on stoops, in coffee shops and at Pat's Place, a local cigar store. Eventually the voices he absorbed while hanging loose with retirees and sharpies in his 20's would re-emerge in his plays, sometimes with little artistic tampering.
 Mr. Wilson acquired his first typewriter with $20 he had earned writing a term paper for one of his sisters at college. But he preferred to write in public places like bars and restaurants and had a particular affinity for composing on cocktail napkins. Only when he settled into his career as a playwright did he become comfortable writing at home, in longhand on yellow notepads.
 By the time he was 20, Mr. Wilson had decided he was a poet. He submitted poems to Harper's and other magazines while supporting himself with odd jobs, and began dressing in a style that raised eyebrows among his peers. While most of the young men of the time were dressing down, Mr. Wilson was always meticulously turned out in jackets, ties and white shirts selected from thrift shops. Later he would be known for his trademark porter's cap.
 Inspired by the Black Power movement then gaining momentum, Mr. Wilson and a group of fellow poets founded a theater workshop and an art gallery, and in 1968 Mr. Wilson and his friend Rob Penny founded the Black Horizons on the Hill Theater. Mr. Wilson was the director and sometimes an actor, too, although he had no experience, and learned about directing by checking a how-to manual out of the library. The company was without a performance space and staged shows in the auditoriums of local elementary schools. Tickets were sold, for 50 cents a pop, by chatting up people on the streets right before a performance.
 But Mr. Wilson's aspirations as an author were still being channeled into poetry; after an abortive effort to write a play for his theater, he set aside playwriting for almost a decade. He came home to drama almost by happenstance. Mr. Wilson moved to St. Paul in 1978 and started working at the Science Museum of Minnesota. His task: adapting Native American folk tales into children's plays.
 Homesick for the Hill District and growing more comfortable with the playwriting process, he started channeling the Hill voices haunting his memories as a way of keeping the connection alive. ''Jitney,'' begun in 1979, was the result. It was produced in Pittsburgh in 1982, the same year that ''Ma Rainey'' was accepted at the O'Neill Center. (Mr. Wilson's first professional production was of a prior play adapted from a series of his poems, ''Black Bart and the Sacred Hills,'' staged by St. Paul's Penumbra Theater.)
 In a 1999 interview in The Paris Review, Mr. Wilson cited his major influences as being the ''four B's'': the blues was the ''primary'' influence, followed by Jorge Luis Borges, the playwright Amiri Baraka and the painter Romare Bearden. He analyzed the elements each contributed to his art: ''From Borges, those wonderful gaucho stories from which I learned that you can be specific as to a time and place and culture and still have the work resonate with the universal themes of love, honor, duty, betrayal, etc. From Amiri Baraka, I learned that all art is political, although I don't write political plays. From Romare Bearden I learned that the fullness and richness of everyday life can be rendered without compromise or sentimentality.'' He added two more B's, both African-American writers, to the list: the playwright Ed Bullins and James Baldwin.
 Although his plays achieved their success in the white-dominated theater world, Mr. Wilson remained devoted to the alternative culture of black Americans and mourned its gradual decline as the black middle class grew and adopted the values of its white counterpart. He once lamented that at convocation ceremonies at black universities, the music would be Bach, not gospel.
 When a Hollywood studio optioned ''Fences,'' Mr. Wilson caused a ruckus by insisting on a black director. In a 1990 article published in Spin magazine and later excerpted in The Times, he said, ''I am not carrying a banner for black directors. I think they should carry their own. I am not trying to get work for black directors. I am trying to get the film of my play made in the best possible way. I declined a white director not on the basis of race but on the basis of culture. White directors are not qualified for the job. The job requires someone who shares the specifics of the culture of black Americans.'' (The film was not made.)
 He was a firm believer in the importance of maintaining a robust black theater movement, a viewpoint that also inspired a public controversy when Mr. Wilson clashed with the prominent theater critic and arts administrator Robert Brustein in a series of exchanges in the pages of American Theater magazine and The New Republic, and later in a formal debate between the two staged at Manhattan's Town Hall in 1997, moderated by Anna Deavere Smith.
 The contretemps began when Mr. Wilson delivered a keynote address to a national theater conference in which he lamented that among the more than 60 members of the League of Regional Theaters, only one was dedicated to the work of African-Americans. He also denounced as absurd the idea of colorblind casting, asserting that an all-black ''Death of a Salesman'' was irrelevant because the play was ''conceived for white actors as an investigation of the specifics of white culture.'' Mr. Brustein referred to Mr. Wilson's call for an independent black theater movement as ''self-segregation.''
 At the sold-out debate at Town Hall the friendly antagonists essentially restated their positions publicly. ''Never is it suggested that playwrights like David Mamet or Terrence McNally are limiting themselves to whiteness,'' Mr. Wilson said. ''The idea that we are trying to escape from the ghetto of black culture is insulting.'' 

A Legacy of Stars
 Mr. Wilson was dedicated to writing for the theater, and resisted many offers from Hollywood. (His only concession: adapting ''The Piano Lesson'' for television.) He didn't even see any movies for a stretch of 10 years.
 But the list of well-known television and film actors who first came to prominence in one of Mr. Wilson's plays is lengthy. Charles S. Dutton scored his first success as the trumpeter Levee in the original production of ''Ma Rainey's Black Bottom,'' a role he reprised nearly 20 years later when the play was revived on Broadway in 2003, with Whoopi Goldberg in the title role. S. Epatha Merkerson, now known as Lt. Anita Van Buren on ''Law & Order,'' appeared opposite Mr. Dutton in ''The Piano Lesson'' on Broadway. 
 Other notable actors who appeared in one or more of Mr. Wilson's plays include Angela Bassett, Roscoe Lee Browne, Phylicia Rashad, Courtney B. Vance, Laurence Fishburne, Lisa Gay Hamilton, Keith David, Viola Davis, Delroy Lindo, Ruben Santiago-Hudson, Leslie Uggams and Brian Stokes Mitchell. 
 Mr. Wilson's first two marriages, to Brenda Burton and Judy Oliver, ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Constanza Romero, a Colombian-born costume designer he met when she worked on ''The Piano Lesson''; and two daughters, Sakina Ansari (from his first marriage) and Azula Carmen Wilson (from his third). He is also survived by his siblings Freda Ellis, Linda Jean Kittel, Richard Kittel, Donna Conley and Edwin Kittel.
 Mr. Wilson did not write plays with specific political agendas, but he did believe art could subtly effect social change. And while his essential aim was to evoke and ennoble the collective African-American experience, he also believed his work could help rewrite some of those rules.
 ''I think my plays offer (white Americans) a different way to look at black Americans,'' he told The Paris Review. ''For instance, in 'Fences' they see a garbageman, a person they don't really look at, although they see a garbageman every day. By looking at Troy's life, white people find out that the content of this black garbageman's life is affected by the same things -- love, honor, beauty, betrayal, duty. Recognizing that these things are as much part of his life as theirs can affect how they think about and deal with black people in their lives.''
 In describing his own work, Mr. Wilson could be analytical or offhand. A soft-spoken man whose affability masked a sometimes short temper, he was a connoisseur of the art of storytelling offstage and on. Here's the story behind all his characters' stories, in his own words: ''I once wrote a short story called 'The Best Blues Singer in the World' and it went like this: 'The streets that Balboa walked were his own private ocean, and Balboa was drowning.' End of story. That says it all. Nothing else to say. I've been rewriting that same story over and over again. All my plays are rewriting that same story. I'm not sure what it means, other than life is hard.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 6, 2005

 CORRECTION:
The obituary of the playwright August Wilson on Monday referred incorrectly at one point to the premiere of his play ''Jitney.'' It was at the Allegheny Repertory Theater in Pittsburgh in 1982, not in St. Paul in 1981. The article also omitted a survivor; she is Mr. Wilson's fourth sister, Barbara Jean Wilson.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The New York production of ''Ma Rainey's Black Bottom,'' 1984. (Photo by Bert Andrews)
Phylicia Rashad and Anthony Chisholm in ''Gem of the Ocean,'' 2004. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. B7)
 August Wilson (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (92%); THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); WRITERS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); POETRY (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); HISTORY (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); LITERATURE (77%); CANCER (76%); MUSIC (75%); FILM (72%); LIVER DISEASE (71%); JAZZ & BLUES (64%) Theater; Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information; Blacks

FRANK RICH (57%) August Wilson; august (biographical sketch) wilson; Charles Isherwood

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Theater

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2005



70 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1627 words

HEADLINE: G.M. and a U.S. Agency See Pensions in Different Lights

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSHand DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
The federal government contends that General Motors' pension fund is $31 billion short of what it owes its work force, according to closely held government data, a figure in stark contrast to G.M.'s assurances that its pension plans are ''fully funded.''
 The government's finding of a huge imbalance suggests that the pension fund may have much larger claims on the company than G.M.'s financial filings have indicated. It was calculated by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the federal agency whose job it is to insure employee pensions if a company fails to meet its obligations.
Both the government agency's and G.M.'s methods of tracking pensions are legally acceptable, and their ability to produce such widely varying results shows the difficulty that employees or shareholders have in trying to ascertain the true condition of a corporate pension fund. But the disparity in such estimates has grown increasingly important as some large companies like United Airlines have gone bankrupt, leaving the agency, which took over United's pension plan, with far greater unfunded obligations than previously thought. 
 G.M. has poured a lot of money into its pension fund and the agency is not suggesting that the company is about to go bankrupt and or that it needs $31 billion right away, because pensions are long-term obligations.
 A spokesman for the automaker, Jerry Dubrowski, said, ''There is no reason to expect that G.M.'s pension plans will be terminated, and to assume otherwise is to unnecessarily alarm the many thousands of people who rely upon those plans for their retirement.'' 
 The General Motors pension fund is by far the biggest in American industry, promising benefits to more than 600,000 workers, retirees and surviving spouses. With the company under pressure on a variety of fronts, understanding the amount of cash it requires in coming years may be an important factor in determining its future. 
 The discrepancy between the government's and the company's figures is the result of different assumptions made about how long G.M. would keep operating the pension fund. The federal guarantor made its estimate on what is called a termination basis -- it measured the amount that G.M. would owe its workers if it were to terminate its pension plans immediately. G.M.'s calculation that its pension plan is fully funded assumes that the fund will keep going, rather than being ended.
 Since 1994, companies with weak pension funds have been required by law to calculate the value of their pension funds on a termination basis and to send the information to the pension guaranty agency. But Congress also enacted a measure keeping the information secret, in response to the stated concerns of companies, who argued that the information could be misconstrued if shared with the public.
 The pension agency did not release G.M.'s own estimate of its pensions on a termination basis, which continues to be secret. G.M. said it sent its most recent calculation to the agency about a year ago. The agency made its own calculation at the end of June and released the figure in response to a request under the Freedom of Information Act. 
 In response to questions about the federal agency's calculation, G.M. released a statement saying it considered it ''unrealistic and not indicative of G.M.'s ability to provide future retirement benefits.'' 
 ''G.M. takes its pension obligations very seriously,'' the statement continued. ''The corporation has contributed more than $56 billion over the last 12 years to fund our pension plans and meet our obligations to our current and future retirees.''
 But the government's calculation, or one similar to it, could become the favored method of measuring pension funds for G.M. and some other corporations if a bill now moving through the Senate is enacted, or if the board that writes America's accounting rules revises the one for pensions. 
 The matter also could come to the fore if General Motors decided to file for bankruptcy protection against creditors as the best way to handle its financial troubles. Companies cannot generally send their pension plans to the government guarantor unless they are in bankruptcy status. 
 Most financial analysts say that G.M. is not in imminent danger of bankruptcy, because it has roughly $20 billion in cash and the option to sell off pieces of its lucrative financial services division, the General Motors Acceptance Corporation, as it has been doing in recent months.
 ''They have liquidity and borrowing power,'' said David Healy, an analyst at Burnham Securities, adding, ''I don't think it's necessary or even wise to solve their problems by going Chapter 11, and they don't have to.''
 G.M.'s pension fund is actually made up of two big plans, one for salaried employees and one for hourly workers. At the end of 2004, G.M. reported that the two plans had total assets of $91 billion, and total benefits owed of $89 billion, for a surplus of $2 billion. 
 The government's calculation involves a variety of different assumptions about the future value of benefits the company owes. Terminating the fund means workers would no longer build up any new benefits, and G.M. would no longer provide cash from its continuing operations. But someone -- either the government or an insurance company -- would still have the obligation to pay all retirees the benefits they had earned, on schedule, in the future. 
 (Companies with plenty of money can also terminate their pension plans by paying an insurance company to take over the obligations. In G.M.'s case, the government estimated that an insurer would charge $31 billion in addition to the money in the fund.) 
 The government says its figure gives the more truthful picture of the plan's condition. The current pension accounting standard specifically cites the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation's method as ''appropriate.''
 But most companies have resisted using the termination method, both because it can make their pension plans look very weak, and because they say they do not intend to end their plans. Business groups say that reporting pension values on a termination basis would needlessly alarm and confuse employees. 
 But as big corporate bankruptcies and pension plan failures accelerated in the last few years, weakening the entire pension system, a small but growing number of economists, accountants and government officials began to take the position that companies with low credit ratings -- like G.M. -- should be required to disclose the termination values of their pension plans. 
 Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao called for such disclosure in a speech in January. Access to the termination data, now secret, would ''empower workers, investors, regulators and the public,'' Ms. Chao said. 
 ''The goal is to ensure that the assumptions that go into measuring a plan's liability better reflect whether or not it will be terminated.'' 
 United Airlines, for example, kept reporting its pension values on the usual, continuing basis, even in its third year of bankruptcy, when it was no longer making the minimum contributions required by law and it was clear that termination was inevitable. On this basis, United, a unit of the UAL Corporation, reported a $6 billion shortfall as of the end of 2004. 
 But when the government agency finally took over the plans this year, it recalculated them on a termination basis and found a total shortage of $10.2 billion. United's work force and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation will bear that shortage. 
 While General Motors is not in the same situation as United Airlines, it has been struggling on many fronts, losing $1.4 billion and exhausting more than $3 billion of cash in the first half of this year. Employee health care costs nearly $6 billion a year, more than steel, and that figure continues to rise. G.M.'s bond ratings have been cut to subinvestment grade, or junk, by the leading credit-rating services, limiting its flexibility in raising cash.
 Then there is the trouble with Delphi, a struggling parts supplier that used to be a unit of G.M. and has said it will file for bankruptcy protection by the middle of this month unless it receives a multibillion-dollar bailout from G.M. and the United Auto Workers union.
 On Monday, Fitch Ratings downgraded G.M. further, saying in a statement that among other factors it had ''become increasingly concerned with the near-term financial costs that could fall on G.M. as part of Delphi's restructuring.'' 
 Late this week, the Senate is expected to debate a broad pension bill that would require companies with junk-level credit ratings to start disclosing their pension values on a termination basis. The bill, which has bipartisan support, is part of an effort to tighten the pension funding rules, in hopes of preventing more big failures like the one at United.
 Congress is expected to pass some form of pension legislation in coming months because a temporary pension measure, meant to help tide companies over the bear market several years ago, is due to expire at the end of December. It has been difficult for lawmakers to agree on how tough to make the new rules. On the one hand, they want to close loopholes and hold companies to a rigorous standard; on the other, companies and some unions warn that if the new rules are too tough, companies will stop offering pensions altogether. 
 The Senate bill would also require companies to make up any shortfalls in their pension funds within seven years. Companies with junk-level credit ratings would have seven years to close the larger gaps that the termination method discloses. That will not be easy, though, since companies with weak credit ratings do not have much extra cash in the first place.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Employees from this Cadillac assembly line in 1978 may soon qualify for a General Motors pension. (Photo by Dan Dmitruck/United Press International)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%) Automobiles; Labor; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Automobiles

COMPANY: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (71%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp; Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (71%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (71%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%)

PERSON: Mary Williams Walsh; Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2005



71 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

U.S. Finds $31 Billion Shortfall In General Motors' Pension Fund
The federal government believes General Motors' pension fund is $31 billion short of what it owes its work force, according to closely held government figures, a number in stark contrast with G.M.'s assurances that its pension plans are ''fully funded.'' [Page C1.]

Using Nostalgia to Sell Medicare Drug Benefits
Marketers are using iconic TV characters like Fred and Ethel Mertz to try to get millions of older Americans to sign up for the new Medicare prescription drug benefits that take effect on Jan. 1. Advertising. [C1.]

Yahoo Leads Alliance to Digitize Books
An unusual alliance of corporations, nonprofit groups and educational institutions announced a plan to digitize hundreds of thousands of books over the next several years and put them on the Internet, with the full text accessible to anyone. The effort is being led by Yahoo, which appears to be taking direct aim at a similar project announced by its arch-rival Google. [C1.]

Companies Aim to Customize Online Video Streams
A handful of new Internet companies have recently introduced Web sites that aim to sift through millions of online video clips and instantly splice them together according to the viewer's stated or implied tastes. The most recent version of this customized Internet TV idea comes from Blinkx, a San Francisco online search company. Suranga Chandratillake, above, who co-founded Blinkx, said: ''Google is a site that changes depending on what you're interested in. We thought, wouldn't it be great if you could do that with TV once you can get that content on the Internet?'' Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. [C4.]

Boots Drug Store Chain Is Said to Plan Merger
The British drug store chain Boots plans to merge with the European pharmaceutical company Alliance UniChem, in the first step of a global expansion plan that will include Asia and the United States, two executives briefed on the talks said. [C5.] The British cable operator NTL plans to acquire Telewest, a counterpart, in a long-awaited deal that will create a $10 billion company with more than 7 million customers, two executives involved in the negotiations said. [C8.]

Business Books From a Select Few Still Sell
Even through the reputations of many chief executives have been tainted recently, a few business books -- including the latest one by John F. Welch Jr. -- are doing well, especially if they offer advice. [C1.]

After Court Ruling, Google Pursues China Plans
Kai-Fu Lee, Google's new man in China, is fresh from what appears to have been a court victory over Microsoft. And he is already talking about his plans to set up Google's research and development center there. [C5.]

In China, Vogue, Elle, Cosmopolitan and other Western publications are in a race to create lucrative fashion and lifestyle magazine franchises. [C10.]

No Sign of New Television Blockbusters
Early ratings suggest that the new television season will offer nothing to approach the continuing success of ''Lost'' or ''Desperate Housewives.'' [C1.]

Some See Price Gouging, Others See Pure Economics
The economy has a system for persuading the rest of us to step aside and let New Orleans have the lumber it needs to rebuild. It's called price gouging. David Leonhardt: Consuming. [C3.]

When the Contract Is Surrounded by Cardboard
A recent decision in the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals reinforced the right of companies, in this case Lexmark, the printer maker, to legally limit what customers can do with a patented product, given that the company spells out conditions and restrictions on a package label known as a box-top license. [C4.]

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET VIDEO (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); MEDICARE (90%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); STREAMING MEDIA (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (76%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (76%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (75%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (75%); CABLE INDUSTRY (74%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (71%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (71%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (70%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (69%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (60%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (96%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (90%); ALLIANCE BOOTS PLC (82%); BLINKX PLC (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (96%); GM (NYSE) (90%); BLNX (LSE) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (82%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (82%); NAICS424210 DRUGS & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (82%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: JACK WELCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2005



72 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; White House Letter; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: If You Can't Take the Heat Get Out of the West Wing

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The thermostats were turned up two degrees throughout the West Wing last week, and staff members willing to relinquish their coveted White House parking passes were promised free fare on the Metro subway system. 
 Over in the White House residence, the lights went off earlier at night and were turned on later in the morning, at least in the rooms that no one was using.
Next door at the Department of the Treasury, the secretary, John W. Snow, decided to take the Amtrak Acela to New York on Wednesday, not the Delta or U.S. Airways shuttle. ''We said, 'If there's a good time to take the train, this is it,''' said Tony Fratto, Mr. Snow's spokesman, who acknowledged that Mr. Snow, a former railroad executive, had also taken the train in the past because he liked it. 
 President Bush has not yet been spotted in a Jimmy Carter-like gray cardigan, but otherwise his call to Americans last week to conserve gasoline by driving less had a strangely familiar ring.
 ''I have to say, with a slight smile, that I wondered if this was Jimmy Carter incarnate speaking about conservation,'' said Stuart Eisenstat, a lawyer in Washington who was Mr. Carter's domestic policy adviser during the energy crisis of the 1970's. 
 Mr. Bush was even more Carteresque with his own administration. He sent out orders directing all federal employees to cut back on nonessential travel and also encouraged them to car pool, telecommute and use public transportation.
 In the normally cool West Wing, the thermostats were up to an average of 72 degrees by Friday, and the staff was under orders to turn off copiers and computers at night. Discussions were under way about making space for bicycle and motorcycle racks.
 Mr. Bush wants all federal agencies to report back within 30 days on the actions they have taken. ''It is important that the federal government lead by example,'' he said in his memorandum. 
 So far, there are no plans for Mr. Bush to give an energy-conservation fireside chat, like Mr. Carter did in his sweater, but it is not clear when things will change. 
 Hurricanes Katrina and Rita disrupted oil and natural gas production in the Gulf of Mexico enough to ensure a winter of sticker shock on natural gas and heating oil prices. As of Friday, almost all of the oil-producing platforms and rigs in the gulf -- accounting for more than a third of domestic oil production and 7 percent of consumption -- were still shut down.
 To Mr. Bush's critics, the call for conservation smacked of showmanship, or of shutting the garage door after the S.U.V. had been stolen. After all, the president has spent the past weeks dropping into the hurricane region from the fuel-guzzling Air Force One, which the Air Force estimates costs $40,000 an hour to fly.
 More significant, Mr. Bush's energy policies have long emphasized new production over conservation, and he has opted not to impose higher mileage standards on most American automakers.
 ''At the margin, it's very useful for the president to alert people to the fact that they need to be more energy efficient, but if that's not translated into policy, it trivializes the issue,'' said Mr. Eisenstat, who argued that Carter administration policies led to a more energy-efficient country that has buffered the economy -- and this president -- during the current crisis. ''We took the full fury of the oil-price spike following the Iranian revolution, and the whole body blow to the economy,'' Mr. Eisenstat said.
 But some energy experts said that Mr. Bush's call for conservation could be more than symbolic. ''The funny thing about conservation is that a little flexibility can do a lot of good,'' said Daniel Yergin, the author of ''The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money and Power,'' a history of oil that won the Pulitzer Prize, and the founder of a consulting firm, Cambridge Energy Research Associates.
 Mr. Yergin said that his firm had calculated that if all homeowners and commercial enterprises in the United States set their thermostats two degrees lower this winter it would save more natural gas than was lost from Hurricane Katrina. He also said that small things -- like driving within the speed limit and rotating tires -- could reduce motorists' gasoline consumption by 10 percent. ''Jawboning is well worth the price if you can get those kind of results,'' Mr. Yergin said.
 Meanwhile, members of the administration were not especially responsive last week to questions about their personal conservation strategies. 
 When asked by e-mail what he was doing to conserve, Karl Rove, the White House deputy chief of staff, hit ''reply'' and asked, ''What are you doing to conserve?'' 
 Margaret Spellings, the secretary of education, said that she was avoiding nonessential travel because ''I'm working so much that I don't have time to go anywhere personally.'' 
 Energy Secretary Samuel W. Bodman's spokesman did not say what Mr. Bodman was doing personally, although he did say that Mr. Bodman had asked employees to actually read the president's conservation directive.
 Back at the White House, it was unclear how many people, if any, had turned in their parking passes for Metro rides. But there was one incentive: ''You can get it back -- it's like squatters' rights,'' said Trent Duffy, the deputy White House press secretary. ''You don't have to give up parking permanently.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush's call to save fuel recalled the efforts of Jimmy Carter, who wore a cardigan when he spoke about such measures. (Photo by Bettmann/Corbis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); THERMAL SENSORS (89%); TRAINS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (86%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); OIL EXTRACTION (84%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (84%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (75%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (72%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (72%); TELECOMMUTING (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); HURRICANE KATRINA (65%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (64%); HEATING OIL (64%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (60%); HEATING OIL PRICES (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Government Employees; Conservation of Resources

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (83%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (57%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (83%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (83%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (57%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JIMMY CARTER (89%) Elisabeth Bumiller; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2005



73 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1747 words

HEADLINE: Home Builders' Stock Sales: Diversifying or Bailing Out? 

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
Home builders have never had it so good. Low interest rates and creative financing have caused a frenetic pace of new-home construction across the country. Builders are reporting blistering earnings and their shares are trading at or near record highs.
 Now they are cashing in. Executives and directors at many of the nation's largest development companies sold stock at a record pace this summer. Insiders at the 10 largest home builders by market value, including D.R. Horton, KB Home, Toll Brothers and M.D.C. Holdings, have sold nearly 11 million shares, worth $952 million, so far this year. That is a huge jump from the 6.8 million shares, worth $658 million, that insiders sold during all of last year, according to data compiled by Thomson Financial.
Market specialists often view heavy stock sales by corporate insiders as a possible indicator that share prices are headed lower. Some analysts say that the share sales by home builders are reminiscent of the heavy dumping of stock by technology company executives just before the technology bubble burst in 2000. For that reason, the staggering level of insider sales has analysts and investors wondering if home builders see something menacing on the horizon, like a cooling of the real estate market. 
 Home builders say the stock sales are not a signal that they believe the property boom is waning. Instead, most executives said that they were selling because they needed to diversify their personal wealth. Some outsiders are not so sure.
 ''The previous times we've had insider selling that was that high, it was followed by a 20 percent decline in the index of home builder stocks,'' said Mark A. LoPresti, senior quantitative analyst with Thomson Financial. Since its July 28 peak, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange Housing Sector Index, an index of 21 home building stocks, has dipped 10 percent. 
 Among those cashing in some chips is Zvi Barzilay, the president and chief operating officer of Toll Brothers, based in Horsham, Pa. He sold 460,400 shares worth more than $39 million, the bulk of it in June and July. That was more than four times the 150,000 shares, worth nearly $8.7 million, that Mr. Barzilay sold last year. 
 Likewise, David D. Mandarich, the president and chief operating officer of M.D.C. Holdings, sold 285,499 shares, worth nearly $25 million, in three days in July, compared with the 192,115 shares, worth $13.8 million, he sold in all of 2004. M.D.C. Holdings is based in Denver. 
 Not all executives are taking profits at the same rate. Stock sales at Pulte Homes and NVR, the nation's second-largest and seventh-largest home building companies, are down from last year's levels. Still, Dwight C. Schar, the chairman of NVR, who sold $155 million worth of stock last year, tops the list of insider sales so far this year. In eight days in May, Mr. Schar sold $88.4 million worth of stock in NVR, based in Reston, Va.
 Mr. Schar's fortunes have changed significantly from 1992, when NVR was forced to file for bankruptcy protection. Last year, he drew a lot attention when he purchased a seven-bedroom, 18-bathroom oceanfront house in Palm Beach, Fla., called Casa Apava, and an adjacent property for a reported $70 million. The seller was Ronald O. Perelman, the Revlon chairman.
 Mr. Schar, 63, who would not comment for this article, also owns a stake in the Washington Redskins football team and runs with Washington's political elite as the Republican National Committee finance chairman. President Bush often singles him out in speeches to thank him for his fund-raising prowess. 
 The heavy stock sales are occurring at a time when housing-related data remain decidedly mixed, confusing home buyers and sellers alike. While recent data showed that sales of existing homes were near record highs, another government report last week said the supply of unsold homes in August rose to its highest level in five years, and some analysts said that could begin to put pressure on home prices. 
 The Commerce Department also reported that sales of new single-family homes fell 9.9 percent in August, dropping nearly 18 percent in the western United States, including Southern California, Phoenix and Las Vegas, where new-home markets have been particularly hot. Furthermore, a survey of home builder optimism taken in early September fell to its lowest level in two years.
 ''If you watch the C.E.O.'s of the big home building companies on CNBC, the word is, 'onward and upward,''' said David F. Seiders, chief economist at the National Association of Home Builders. ''But a number of forecasters, including myself, keep insisting that the market is going to lose some momentum next year.''
 Home builders denied that heavy insider sales were a sign that they had lost confidence. ''We're still anticipating record earnings for 2005 and 2006,'' said Paris G. Reece III, the chief financial officer of M.D.C. Holdings; he has sold more than $11 million in stock this year, double what he sold last year.
 Mr. Reece attributed his own stock sales -- as well as those of Mr. Mandarich and other M.D.C. executives -- to options that were expiring in November. In total, insiders at M.D.C. have sold $71 million in stock, up from $48 million last year. 
 The Ryland Group said the sales of 260,000 shares worth $17.7 million sold by its chief executive, R. Chad Dreier, took place on a predetermined schedule that has existed for the last five years. 
 Executives at Hovnanian Enterprises, the Lennar Corporation and elsewhere said they were merely diversifying their portfolios after the huge surge in the market value of their shares in recent years tied more and more of their personal wealth to the company.
 ''The stock sales have nothing to do with the state of the market. It has everything to do with diversification,'' said Joel H. Rassman, the chief financial officer of Toll Brothers, who has sold 105,000 shares worth $8.1 million. That is almost double the 60,600 shares he sold last year for about $4 million. 
 In fact, insiders at Toll Brothers, which announced in September that it would sponsor live radio broadcasts of the New York Metropolitan Opera, have been among the most active sellers of stock this year. They have sold nearly six million shares, worth more than $468 million, so far in 2005. That is three times the number of shares that netted Toll insiders $158 million last year. 
 Robert I. Toll, the chief executive of Toll Brothers and an avid art collector, has sold for some $20 million about 200,000 shares that he held directly, up from 120,000 shares last year that were worth $7.7 million. (Mr. Toll has also sold another $244 million in stock this year that he held indirectly for charitable foundations and in trusts for his five children.) 
 ''Even after all of the sales that have taken place, Bob Toll still owns about $1.2 billion, plus or minus, in company stock and options,'' Mr. Rassman said. ''Any investment adviser would tell Bob Toll that he should be diversifying to an even greater extent than he is.''
 Likewise, the $28 million in stock sales in July by Jeffrey T. Mezger, the chief operating officer of KB Home, is the first stock sale in the 12 years he has been with the company, KB Home said in a statement. The ''vast majority of his net worth'' is still invested in the company's stock, the company said. ''KBH stock has appreciated 600 percent over the past five years, and it is widely considered a prudent investment strategy to diversify one's net worth,'' it added.
 Furthermore, KB Home, based in Los Angeles, noted that it recently reported record earnings and that it had raised earnings guidance for every year through 2008. ''With a current sales backlog of over $7 billion, the company's outlook is extremely positive,'' the statement concluded.
 But if the market is so great and if, as most home builders argue, their stocks are undervalued, why are executives selling now? asked Richard Bernstein, chief United States strategist at Merrill Lynch. Mr. Bernstein issued a report in late August saying that insider sales at home builders mimicked what happened in the technology sector before those stocks peaked in 2000. 
 ''People say these companies are closely held and that the executives are trying to diversify, but why now?'' asked Mr. Bernstein, adding that similar sales levels were not apparent in other top-performing industries this year. ''They could have diversified their holdings 2, 5 or even 10 years ago.'' 
 Home builders respond by saying that the need to diversify took on a greater sense of urgency after the huge leaps in their stock prices in the last year. ''Our stock price has essentially doubled since a year ago, from $23 to around $44'' on a split-adjusted basis, said Mr. Rassman of Toll Brothers. ''Like other home building companies, we highly compensate our employees and senior employees with stock. As the stocks have done well, they have become a larger and larger percentage of our wealth.'' Another reason for the sales may be that after living through the last boom-and-bust housing cycle a decade ago, few home building executives want to return to the days when they watched their fortunes quickly disappear, analysts said. 
 In the early 1990's, most home builders were on the verge of collapse as interest rates rose sharply and some of their business practices, like building homes on a speculative basis, hoping buyers would emerge, left them with plenty of homes that they could not sell. 
 Home builders who survived the last housing cycle insist they have learned their lessons and that even if a slowdown occurs, they will not be hurt as much. For instance, many home builders today hold options to buy land rather than own the land outright. Also, most will not start to lay the foundation of a home until they have a signed contract. 
 Just as they may have tried to insulate their businesses from any real estate downturns, many executives could simply be trying to protect their personal wealth as well by selling some stock, analysts said.
 ''These are record times for the industry, and there's not much chance it's going to get a whole lot better,'' said Gregory E. Gieber, a home builder analyst with A.G. Edwards. ''These guys know that the good times don't last forever, and they've been out there in the cold before.''

Building Fortunes
 Articles in this occasional series will profile a variety of businesspeople who have grown wealthy from the real estate boom.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A builder recently paid $70 million for Casa Apava in Palm Beach, Fla. (Photo by Bob Shanley/Palm Beach Post)Chart: ''Shedding Shares''Insiders at the five largest home building companies by market value have sold more than $850 million in stock so far this year, up from almost $600 million in all of last year. Here is what insiders sold at these companies, and the insider who sold the most at each.HOME BUILDER -- Toll BrothersINSIDER SALES, MILLIONS'05* -- $468.3'04 -- $158.7LARGEST SELLER, 2005, MILLIONS*Zvi Barzilay
President -- $39.4HOME BUILDER -- KB HomeINSIDER SALES, MILLIONS'05* -- 142.2'04 -- 149.3LARGEST SELLER, 2005, MILLIONS*Jeffrey T. Mezger
Chief operating officer -- 28.3HOME BUILDER -- NVRINSIDER SALES, MILLIONS'05* -- 128.8'04 -- 223.4LARGEST SELLER, 2005, MILLIONS*Dwight C. Schar
Chairman -- 88.4HOME BUILDER -- M.D.C. HoldingsINSIDER SALES, MILLIONS'05* -- 71.6'04 -- 48.7LARGEST SELLER, 2005, MILLIONS*David D. Mandarich
President -- 24.9HOME BUILDER -- Hovnanian EnterprisesINSIDER SALES, MILLIONS'05* -- 45.6'04 -- 17.0LARGEST SELLER, 2005, MILLIONS*Geaton A. DeCesaris Jr.
 Director -- 7.0*Through Sept. 15(Source by Thomson Financial)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (97%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (79%); HOUSING BUBBLE (79%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); BONDS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%) Housing; Stocks and Bonds; Building (Construction); Insider Trading; Industry Profiles; Surveys and Series; Housing

COMPANY: THOMSON FINANCIAL (91%); MDC HOLDINGS INC (85%); D R HORTON INC (58%); KB HOME CORP (57%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (53%); PULTEGROUP INC (50%)

TICKER: MDC (NYSE) (85%); DHI (NYSE) (58%); KBH (NYSE) (57%); PHM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (85%); SIC1531 OPERATIVE BUILDERS (85%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (58%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (50%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (50%)

PERSON: JEFFREY T MEZGER (56%) Julie Creswell

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (53%) FLORIDA, USA (74%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2005



74 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturing Sector Keeps Growing 

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The nation's manufacturing sector shook off the impact of Hurricane Katrina and robustly expanded during September, but prices for raw materials surged, raising the prospect of higher inflation and interest rates. 
 The Institute for Supply Management, a nonprofit association based in Tempe, Ariz., said yesterday that its manufacturing index advanced to 59.4 percent in September from 53.6 percent the month before, for the industrial sector's 28th consecutive month of growth. It was the highest reading since the gauge hit 59.6 percent in August 2004 and well above the 54 percent reading that analysts had expected. 
 A reading above 50 indicates the sector is expanding; below 50 indicates manufacturing activity is shrinking. 
 But manufacturers reported another sharp jump in prices last month as higher crude oil costs and transportation bottlenecks caused by the recent hurricanes raised costs for materials and energy. The price index rose to 78 percent in September, a 15.5 percentage point rise from 62.5 percent in August, the institute said. The price index rose 14 percentage points the month before. 
 Norbert J. Ore, chairman of the institute's business survey committee, said the September report was heavily affected by Katrina, which struck the Gulf Coast on Aug. 29. He said, for example, that a good part of the increase in new orders appeared to be a result of a scramble by manufacturers for alternate suppliers after regular sources were shut by the storm. Mr. Ore also said the surge in prices appeared to be tied to the hurricane and its aftermath. 
 Also yesterday, the Commerce Department reported that construction spending climbed to a record in August, helped by a renewed boom in housing. The Commerce Department said total August construction spending rose by 0.4 percent, the biggest increase in three months. It pushed construction activity to a record of $1.11 trillion at a seasonally adjusted annual rate. 
 The Institute for Supply Management, said September's strength in its manufacturing index, which is compiled from a survey of purchasing executives in industries across the country, reflected improvement in new orders and production. 
 The new-orders index expanded to 63.8 percent in September from 56.4 percent in August. The production index rose to 63.1 percent from 55.9 percent the month before. The employment index advanced to 53.1 percent in September from 52.6 percent in August.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Homes being built in Stockton, Calif. Construction spending set a record in August, the government said. (Photo by David McNew/Getty Images)Graph: ''Construction Spending''Total construction spending at a seasonally adjusted annual pace.Graph tracks construction spending since 2004.Aug. -- +0.4%July -- +0.3June -- -0.5(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (95%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (90%); NEW ORDERS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (86%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); WEATHER (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (54%) United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Production; Building (Construction)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (93%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%) Institute for Supply Management; Commerce Department

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2005



75 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Perry Mason, Meet Your Expert Technology Witness

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF; James Kanter contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: SUNNYVALE, Calif. 

 BODY:
Lawsuits over who can profit from ideas and innovation are increasingly a foundation of the technology industry. As a result, competition that once played out in the marketplace is now routinely carried on in the courtroom.
 That has touched off a quiet race among companies to assemble teams of expert witnesses -- the technical specialists and technology-savvy economists who will help sway judge and jury on the intensely complex merits of a patent case.
 A thriving industry in expert witnesses, who are paid as much as $1,000 an hour, has become part of the fabric of the global patent system and the increasingly contentious legal combat that surrounds it. 
 ''There is a very small circle of world class technology economists, and both sides know who they are,'' said Thomas McCoy, the lead lawyer for Advanced Micro Devices, which is preparing for a legal battle with Intel over chip patents.
 That small circle has been eclipsed by an explosion of small and large expert-witness firms. They range from giants like LECG and Exponent, global companies with expertise in an array of fields, to litigation-support businesses like the Chatham Group, based in Los Altos, Calif., and operated by Jerry Klein.
 ''This is warfare,'' Mr. Klein said of the courtroom dramas. ''It's a high-stakes intellectual battle, and it's very complicated.''
 In recent years, the handful of large expert-witness firms have made ''handshake'' agreements to act in partnership with companies that are accumulating portfolios of patents with the intent of collecting revenue from them, said Jack Russo, a specialist on intellectual property in Palo Alto, Calif. He said this was similar to the informal networks set up by insurance companies that require expert testimony in lawsuits.
 Mr. Klein is a pioneer of the business. With a database of more than 1,000 experts, he has been operating as a kind of expert-witness arms dealer for more than 17 years.
 He started his business in 1988 after a lawyer friend involved in an intellectual property case asked him what an epitaxial reactor was. Having worked for many years as a business associate of Federico Faggin, one of the inventors of the microprocessor chip, Mr. Klein had a ready answer: It is a crucial system used for depositing exotic materials on the surface of silicon chips.
 Now he finds experts, trains them in performing before a judge and jury and assembles teams of experts to perform the behind-the-scenes technical chores needed to prepare for an intellectual property lawsuit.
 While Mr. Klein takes pride in being able to provide in-depth technical legal consulting, he often must deal with lawyers who are looking for a character straight out of central casting, he said.
 ''The classic profile I get asked for is a gray-bearded 56-year-old Stanford professor who has written the leading textbook on some arcane technology area,'' he said.
 In reality, however, few experts actually end up in the courtroom.
 Instead, most of the work is the kind of tedious and painstaking analysis that a software consultant like Mark Seiden might perform in the early stages of a lawsuit, well before it goes to a judge.
 Not long ago, Mr. Seiden, who is a partner at MSB Associates in San Mateo, Calif., was asked to look at a piece of software at the center of a copyright fight involving three companies.
 He began by writing his own software tools to help him compare thousands of lines of code to look for copyright infringement. After several weeks, his software found a smoking gun -- an unusual misspelling hidden deep within the infringing program.
 Although he has worked as an expert ''witness'' for several decades, Mr. Seiden has never appeared before a jury.
 That is just as well, he said: ''Being on the stand is a very high-pressure, unpleasant thing. And most of the cases settle before going to court.''
 One of the driving forces in the expert-witness industry was a 1993 ruling by the Supreme Court that established standards intended to limit the practice of ''junk science'' in federal courts. Junk science is faulty scientific analysis used to advance a specific viewpoint.
 That ruling created a process in which federal courts now routinely have an early role in hearing expert testimony related to claims. In many cases, the federal courts, after holding preliminary hearings, reject a portion of a lawsuit, based on expert testimony, before it goes to trial.
 Pending patent legislation now under discussion by Congress could move much patent litigation into an arbitration system, where the process is more compressed and the role of expert witnesses is thereby reduced, some lawyers said.
 Mr. Klein said such a change could unravel a system that has done a good job of protecting the innovation at the heart of Silicon Valley.
 ''The system has flaws,'' he acknowledged. ''But it's the best system in the world.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 6, 2005

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day on Tuesday about expert witnesses in intellectual property cases misstated the nature of a suit brought by Advanced Micro Devices, a chip maker, against its rival Intel. It is an antitrust case, not a patent case.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jerry Klein finds technology experts and teaches them how to perform before juries and judges. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); EXPERT WITNESSES (90%); PATENTS (90%); WITNESSES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (89%); LAWYERS (89%); MICROPROCESSORS (88%); COMPUTER CHIPS (88%); PATENT LAW (79%); JURY TRIALS (79%); JUDGES (79%); TESTIMONY (77%); INSURANCE (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (70%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (68%); SEMICONDUCTORS (60%) Inventions and Patents; Suits and Litigation; Witnesses; Inventions and Patents

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (58%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (56%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); AMD (NYSE) (56%); AMD (FRA) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: John Markoff

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (87%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2005



76 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: Big S.U.V.'s Lag in Sales, Hindered By Gas Cost

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 3 

 BODY:
The heyday of the giant sport utility vehicle keeps moving farther away as gasoline prices loom larger.
 In September, industrywide sales of large S.U.V.'s were down 43 percent from a year earlier, according to Ward's AutoInfoBank. That is particularly bad news for General Motors and the Ford Motor Company, which are dependent on truck-based S.U.V.'s.
Last month, G.M.'s overall sales fell 24.2 percent and Ford's declined 20.3 percent, compared with the same month a year earlier. 
 In contrast, Japanese carmakers reported increases last month, propelled by passenger cars and smaller S.U.V.'s known as crossover vehicles. Toyota's sales rose 10.3 percent, Honda's increased 11.7 percent and Nissan's, 16.4 percent.
 Overall auto sales fell 7.9 percent last month, to a seasonally adjusted sales rate equivalent to 16.3 million vehicles if it were maintained for an entire year.
 Part of the reason sales cooled is that the domestic automakers are phasing out their employee discount offers, which were mostly used to clear out 2005 models. The companies have also offered the deals on some 2006 model S.U.V.'s and pickup trucks, but have said the discounts will not continue this month, though company officials have been known to change their minds.
 With President Bush joining calls for conservation at the pump, automakers are finding that this is not an ideal time to sell their least fuel-efficient models. Gasoline consumption has fallen for four consecutive weeks as Americans cut back, and a wide range of consumer surveys show that at least some Americans are looking to conserve and are changing their minds about what kind of car or truck to buy. 
 After G.M. and Ford announced their September sales results, Standard & Poor's, citing high gasoline prices, put both companies on negative credit watches for possible downgrades deeper into junk bond territory. S.&P. also noted that G.M. planned to release a new generation of its medium and large S.U.V.'s early next year into what many analysts fear will be an inhospitable market.
 ''We believe soaring gasoline prices after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita are leading to an accelerating decline in demand for S.U.V.'s,'' said Scott Sprinzen, a credit analyst at Standard & Poor's, adding that the reception given to G.M.'s new offerings would be critical, given the company's ''disproportionate reliance on S.U.V.-related earnings.''
 For the moment, though, big S.U.V.'s are bearing the brunt of consumer discontent. While sales have been diminishing all year long, September was particularly ugly. 
 At Ford, sales of the Explorer, Expedition and Lincoln Navigator fell more than 50 percent compared with the same month a year earlier. The company also built its last Excursion in the month, ending production of its largest S.U.V. 
 At G.M., sales of the Chevrolet Suburban and Tahoe fell more than 50 percent, while the GMC Yukon was down 46 percent and the Cadillac Escalade fell nearly 23 percent, with the supersize Escalade ESV falling 40 percent. Sales of the Hummer H2, made by G.M., fell 32 percent. 
 The sharp declines come despite heavy spending on discounts. According to a new estimate from the auto tracking firm Edmunds, automakers are spending twice as much on discounts for each large S.U.V. they sell -- $4,704 -- than the $2,366 overall average vehicle incentive. That is partly mitigated by the fact that the vehicles tend to be more expensive, but only partly.
 ''Just three years ago, people ignored the fuel economy numbers on the sticker,'' said Jesse Toprak, an analyst at Edmunds. ''Now it's one of the first things people ask about, especially the middle-income families.''
 Those families have been the core market for large S.U.V.'s. 
 George Pipas, chief industry sales analyst at Ford, said ''sales declines, this year at least, in the traditional S.U.V. segment are becoming the norm, and we expect that to continue to be the case in the near future.'' 
 Large models at Japanese automakers also suffered, with the Toyota Land Cruiser off more than 50 percent and the Nissan Armada down 21 percent. But the Japanese make more of the smaller and lighter sport utility vehicles that customers are shifting to, and have a stronger hold on the resurgent car market. 
 Consumers are also snapping up as many hybrid electric vehicles as the industry produces, with sales of the Toyota Prius up 90 percent and the hybrid version of the Ford Escape having a record sales month. 
 Perhaps Detroit's only bright spot was that sales at the Chrysler division of the German automaker DaimlerChrysler held up, rising 4 percent, driven by a 26 percent gain in its car business. 
 According to the Autodata Corporation, sales of the traditional domestic automotive brands fell to 55 percent of the overall market, from 61.6 percent in September 2004. 
 G.M. has said the large S.U.V. market will perk up once it introduces its new generation of such vehicles at the beginning of next year. 
 But at a media briefing last week, Robert A. Lutz, G.M.'s vice chairman and product development chief, emphasized that his company would be hedging its bets. ''I'm betting we're going to see regular under $2 a gallon again,'' he said, but added that ''what we have is volatility and the volatility may continue.
 ''That's why we're not depending solely on the new full-size sport utilities,'' Mr. Lutz said. ''We're going to be doing a balanced portfolio of high-fuel-economy passenger cars, high-fuel-economy crossover vehicles.''
 Consumer surveys over the past month have shown that people are more aware of prices at the pump. 
 Twenty-eight percent of S.U.V. owners surveyed last month by AutoPacific Research, a California consulting firm, said they would shift to a different kind of vehicle for their next purchase. A quarter of drivers whose vehicles had the larger V-8 engines said they would look for a less powerful engine next time. The firm talked to 1,313 people for the survey. 
 A Kelley Blue Book and Harris Interactive Survey of about 2,000 adults in late August found that gas prices had either changed people's minds ''or strongly influenced purchase decisions.'' 
 In a September survey sponsored by AARP of 568 people over 50 years old, 47 percent said they were reducing travel and vacations and 39 percent said they were visiting family and friends less often. Thirteen percent of the respondents even said they were offsetting high gasoline prices by eating less. 
 ''These are lifestyle-changing prices,'' said James Toedtman, editor of the AARP Bulletin, in a statement. ''Many people were already making significant adjustments before Katrina. Poststorm costs have driven Americans to find additional ways to trim their household budgets.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jeff Besterwitch walked by used Expeditions yesterday at Kearny Mesa Ford in San Diego. Sales of newer big S.U.V.'s fell sharply last month. (Photo by Sandy Huffaker/Bloomberg News)(pg. C4)Chart:How the industry faredSEPT. 2004Cars -- 605,811Light trucks -- 827,814Total -- 1,433,625SEPT. 2005Cars -- 642,042Light trucks -- 678,304Total -- 1,320,346CHANGECars -- +6.0%Light trucks -- -18.1%Total -- -7.9%ADJUSTED CHANGE*Cars -- +6.0%Light trucks -- -18.1%Total -- -7.9%ANNUAL SELLING RATECars -- 7.93Light trucks -- 8.34Total -- 16.27How automakers faredDAIMLERCHRYSLERSept. 2005 Sales -- 193,108Change Adjusted* -- + 3.7%Market Share -- 14.6FORDSept. 2005 Sales -- 221,897Change Adjusted* -- -20.3Market Share -- 16.8GENERAL MOTORSSept. 2005 Sales -- 344,996Change Adjusted* -- -24.2Market Share -- 26.1HONDASept. 2005 Sales -- 121,163Change Adjusted* -- +11.7Market Share -- 9.2HYUNDAISept. 2005 Sales -- 38,214Change Adjusted* -- + 9.1Market Share -- 2.9NISSANSept. 2005 Sales -- 93,564Change Adjusted* --+16.4Market Share -- 7.1TOYOTASept. 2005 Sales -- 178,417Change Adjusted* -- +10.3Market Share -- 13.5Most popular cars and trucksFORD F SeriesSept. 2005 Sales -- 69,643Change from Sept. 2004 sales -- -30.2CHEVROLET SilveradoSept. 2005 Sales -- 48,051Change from Sept. 2004 sales -- -37.6TOYOTA CamrySept. 2005 Sales -- 36,842Change from Sept. 2004 sales -- + 6.4DODGE Ram pickupSept. 2005 Sales -- 35,502Change from Sept. 2004 sales -- + 5.4HONDA AccordSept. 2005 Sales -- 33,884Change from Sept. 2004 sales -- +11.7HONDA CivicSept. 2005 Sales -- 30,165Change from Sept. 2004 sales -- +36.9TOYOTA CorollaSept. 2005 Sales -- 29,446Change from Sept. 2004 sales -- +12.2NISSAN AltimaSept. 2005 Sales -- 26,442Change from Sept. 2004 sales -- +24.2CHEVROLET MalibuSept. 2005 Sales -- 23,156Change from Sept. 2004 sales -- - 1.6CHEVROLET ImpalaSept. 2005 Sales -- 21,700Change from Sept. 2004 sales -- -29.5CHEVROLET TrailblazerSept. 2005 Sales -- 21,412Change from Sept. 2004 sales -- -24.0CHEVROLET CobaltSept. 2005 Sales -- 17,500Change from Sept. 2004 sales -- Unch.GMC SierraSept. 2005 Sales -- 16,232Change from Sept. 2004 sales -- -31.2FORD EconolineSept. 2005 Sales -- 14,862Change from Sept. 2004 sales -- +22.1TOYOTA TacomaSept. 2005 Sales -- 14,632Change from Sept. 2004 sales -- +21.5Honda CivicBIGGEST GAINER -- +36.9%Chevrolet SilveradoBIGGEST LOSER -- -37.6%*Based on average daily sales adjusted for any differences in the number of selling days in a month.(Source by Ward's AutoInfoBank)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (95%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (85%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); GASOLINE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); CONSUMPTION (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); BONDS (73%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (62%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%) Automobiles; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; Sales; International Trade and World Market; Automobiles; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Fuel Efficiency

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp; Ford Motor Co; Toyota Motor Corp; Honda Motor Co; Nissan Motor Co

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); 7201 (TSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2005



77 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 847 words

PERSON: Nipsey Russell

HEADLINE: Nipsey Russell, a Comic With a Gift for Verse, Dies at 80

BYLINE: By MEL WATKINS

 BODY:
Nipsey Russell, the comedian whose one-liners and impromptu rhymes made him one of television's popular talk-show guests and game-show panelists during the 1970's, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 80 and made his home in Manhattan. 
 The cause was cancer, said his manager, Joe Rapp.
One of the early black stand-up comedians who found success with mainstream audiences, Mr. Russell started performing professionally in 1931 at the age of 6, when he was featured as a singing, dancing master of ceremonies for a children's troupe in Atlanta organized by Eddie Heywood Sr., the father of the jazz pianist. By the 1950's he had become a seasoned comedian who set his act apart from the baggy-pants, mostly raunchy comics who were the staple of most black clubs of the time. 
 Dressed in a conservative business suit and tie but wearing a raffish porkpie hat, he offered a confident, sophisticated approach to comedy. His jokes and topical observations were often delivered in the form of aphorisms and rhymes. He had begun reading Shelley, Homer, Keats and Paul Laurence Dunbar when he was 10 and sometimes quoted from Chaucer's ''Canterbury Tales.'' Hip, glib and conspicuously intelligent, he attracted downtown crowds to Harlem, becoming a standout attraction at the Baby Grand, Small's Paradise and other cabarets with quips like ''America is the only place in the world where you can work in an Arab home in a Scandinavian neighborhood and find a Puerto Rican baby eating matzo balls with chopsticks.'' 
 Mr. Russell prided himself on the universality of his humor and insisted that he did not want to be labeled a black comic.
 ''I use mother-in-law jokes, kid jokes, tax jokes -- anything that works,'' he said. But, despite telling at least one reporter that there was less racial material in his act than on the nightly news, his satirical comments on civil rights issues during the 1960's suggested that his usual stage diffidence masked more intense concerns. One of his favorite stories concerned an African delegate to the United Nations who stopped at a restaurant in Maryland only to be told that blacks were not served there. 
 ''But I'm the delegate from Ghana,'' the diplomat protested. 
 ''Well, you ain't Ghana eat here,'' the waitress replied.
 Speaking of nonviolent protest, he observed, ''He who turns the other cheek will get hit with the other fist.''
 Nipsey Russell was born in Atlanta on Oct. 13, 1924. (''My mother just liked the way the name Nipsey sounded.'') He moved to Cincinnati and lived with an aunt during his senior year of high school so he would be eligible to attend the University of Cincinnati tuition-free. A four-year enlistment in the Army -- where he was commissioned as a captain in the field during World War II -- interrupted his studies at the university. But he returned and earned a degree in English in 1946.
 After college, he pursued his stage career in earnest, working black circuit clubs in the Midwest and on the East Coast before graduating to the Apollo in Harlem and top Catskills resort hotels like the Concord. It was his tenure at the Baby Grand, a Manhattan cabaret, however, that led to guest spots on Jack Paar's ''Tonight Show,'' and those national television appearances ignited his career in 1959. His catchy verse, aphorisms and gift of gab were perfectly suited for radio and television and soon he was making steady appearances on Arthur Godfrey's morning radio program and a variety of television shows.
 He played a policeman in the popular situation comedy ''Car 54, Where Are You?'' in 1961 and became the first black performer to become a regular panelist on a weekly network game show when he joined ABC's ''Missing Links'' in 1964. A year later, he became a co-host of ABC's ''Les Crane Show.'' During the 70's, he was a co-star in the ABC sitcom ''Barefoot in the Park'' and appeared regularly on ''The Dean Martin Show'' and ''The Dean Martin Comedy World.''
 Mr. Russell was a frequent panelist on television game shows like ''Hollywood Squares'' and ''The $50,000 Pyramid,'' where he always came prepared with topical verse: 
 Before we lose our autonomy
 And our economy crumbles into dust
 We should attack Japan, lose the war
 And let Japan take care of us.
 A tireless performer, he appeared in Atlantic City and Las Vegas until the early 1990's and continued to make television appearances until last year.
 There are no immediate survivors, Mr. Rapp, his manager, said.
 Although Mr. Russell was best known for his television and nightclub work, probably his most admiring reviews derived from his role as the Tin Man in the 1978 film ''The Wiz.'' The movie variation of the Broadway variation of ''The Wizard of Oz'' was generally panned, but critics praised his performance.
 In The New Yorker, Pauline Kael wrote: ''He understands that the roles are vaudeville-comedian turns. [and] shows here that all his years of playing the inoffensive black entertainer in front of white audiences haven't softened him as a performer; he has the true pro's integrity of style.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Nipsey Russell in 1979.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CHILDREN (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); JAZZ & BLUES (76%); DANCE (76%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (75%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (60%); CANCER (57%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

Mel Watkins

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); MARYLAND, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (91%); GHANA (90%)

CATEGORY: Popular Entertainers

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2005



78 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; WHAT'S ON TONIGHT; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 384 words

BYLINE: By ANITA GATES

 BODY:

10 P.M. (2) CLOSE TO HOME -- Series premiere. They could have called this show ''Suburban Law.'' The premise is that crimes in a manicured Midwestern suburb are just as hideous as the big-city variety. Jennifer Finnigan (above), the relentlessly cheerful Marni in NBC's short-lived sitcom ''Committed,'' plays a young prosecutor who handles cases in her own neighborhood. Tonight she returns from maternity leave to the case of a woman accused of setting fire to her own house with her children inside.

8 P.M. (11) GILMORE GIRLS -- ''Always a Godmother, Never a God.'' Lorelai (Lauren Graham) and her daughter, Rory (Alexis Bledel), a Yale dropout living in her grandparents' pool house, have yet to reconcile. Sookie (Melissa McCarthy), Lorelai's emotional business partner, asks them to be her baby's godmothers, which will force them at least to show up at the same church at the same time.

8 P.M. (TCM) OUT OF THE PAST (1947) -- Kirk Douglas plays a gangster whose irresistibly seductive girlfriend, Kathie Moffat (Jane Greer), has disappeared, along with $40,000 of his money. Robert Mitchum (right, with Greer) is the private eye he sends to find her. Sadly, Kathie is the original double-crossing dame.

8:30 P.M. (7) RODNEY -- Season premiere. Rodney (Rodney Carrington), factory employee and aspiring comedian, becomes convinced he is going to hell. To endear himself to God, he starts spending time at church and even teaches Sunday school.

9 P.M. (13, 49) FRONTLINE -- Ten years ago yesterday, the verdict in the O. J. Simpson trial was announced. The jury acquitted Mr. Simpson of the murders of Nicole Brown Simpson, his estranged wife, and Ronald Goldman. Some 57 percent of the adult American population watched the announcement on live television, and many applauded. This series takes another look.

9 P.M. (IFC) TALK TO HER (2002). A beautiful young dancer and a beautiful young bullfighter become comatose. The dancer's nurse and the bullfighter's boyfriend (Javier Camara, far left, and Dario Grandinetti) devote themselves to the women, with very different results. This tragicomedy, written and directed by Pedro Almodovar, won the Golden Globe for best foreign film, the Cesar (France's Oscar equivalent) for best European Union film and the Oscar for best original screenplay. ANITA GATES

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Nigel Parry/CBS)
(Photo by Miguel Bracho/Sony Pictures Classics)
 (Photo by RKO Pictures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); CHILDREN (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); JURY TRIALS (76%); DRAMA LITERATURE (76%); VERDICTS (76%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); MATERNITY LEAVE (75%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (74%); ARSON (72%); FILM (63%); FILM DIRECTORS (63%); ACQUITTAL (62%); FILM GENRES (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); EUROPEAN UNION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (66%); FRANCE (64%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2005



79 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Teachers Embrace Settlement, If Not Raise

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER; Ann Farmer, Johanna Jainchill and Colin Moynihan contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Teachers in New York City expressed a kind of wary relief yesterday afternoon that after more than two years without a new contract, their union had negotiated a deal with the Bloomberg administration.
 Many also said they were glad that the union, the United Federation of Teachers, would now withdraw its threat to strike. But some teachers were less than enthusiastic about a few details of the proposed contract, which will go to them for a ratification vote.
''What should I say?'' said Patricia Sullivan, an art teacher at Public School 199 on West 70th Street in Manhattan. ''We're getting closer to a living wage.'' 
 The deal calls for a raise of 14.25 percent over 52 months, which when compounded will amount to 15 percent. It would require teachers to work 10 minutes longer a day, eliminate some teachers' seniority rights and create a new position of master teacher, with higher pay.
 ''I like the 15 percent,'' said Tekle Eckrich, who teaches math, social studies and literature at P.S. 199. ''The 10 minutes a day don't matter, because we work so much longer than the contract stipulates.''
 Like many teachers, Mr. Eckrich had not heard of the proposed settlement until he left school at the end of the day, when he learned of it from a reporter. Many teachers said they would reserve judgment until they could study the contract's details.
 At first glance, Mr. Eckrich said, the raise may help offset increases in rent and other basic costs that teachers have been absorbing. But he doubted that it would stop teachers from leaving city schools for higher-paying jobs elsewhere. 
 ''I don't know if the 15 percent will prevent the drain to the suburbs,'' he said.
 Some teachers were disappointed with the raise. ''I think it's still low,'' said Daisy Castro, who teaches 10th grade at the Marta Valle Model High School on the Lower East Side.
 Ms. Castro said that under the expired contract, her raise had amounted, after taxes, to $10 every two weeks. Given the effort teachers make and the time they put in, both inside and outside class, she said, they deserve a better raise.
 ''We're constantly working, regardless,'' Ms. Castro said. ''We stay after school. We go home and work on lesson plans and grading.''
 Sibyl Economos, who teaches English at the Lower East Side Preparatory School, which shares a building on Stanton Street with Marta Valle, was also unhappy with the raise. ''I personally think they could have done a lot better with the contract,'' Ms. Economos said. ''We want to be valued more.''
 Like many teachers, however, Ms. Economos was delighted that a contract agreement meant that the union leadership would withdraw its threat to strike. ''I'm not a fan of the strike,'' she said.
 Thomas Webb, who teaches 7th and 10th grades at Marta Valle, agreed. ''I can't afford a strike,'' Mr. Webb said. ''I like my kids this year. I would have missed them.''
 Anna Ascencio, who teaches kindergarten at P.S. 199, said she was satisfied with the proposed raise. ''I'm happy because I think we deserve it,'' she said. ''We work very hard with the children.''
 Meredith Moore, who teaches fifth grade at P.S. 321 in Park Slope, Brooklyn, said she was delighted that a new contract had been negotiated.
 ''I was kind of expecting it to be resolved before the mayoral race,'' Ms. Moore said. ''I think it makes sense for Bloomberg to resolve it now. We were concerned that if it didn't happen now, it would be bumped again to the back burner.''
 Some parents shared the relief. ''I so wanted a good settlement for the teachers,'' said Laurie Kellogg, whose son attends P.S. 295, which straddles Park Slope and Windsor Terrace in Brooklyn. ''As a parent, I was very upset that teachers didn't have a contract. And I feel they shouldn't have had to fight so hard for one.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (79%); HIGH SCHOOLS (79%); TEACHER UNIONS (79%); LIVING WAGE (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (65%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2005



80 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1399 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate Cools In Hot Markets Like Manhattan

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT and MOTOKO RICH; Ron Nixon, in New York, and Matt Richtel, in San Francisco, contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
A real estate slowdown that began in a handful of cities this summer has spread to almost every hot housing market in the country, including New York.
 More sellers are putting their homes on the market, houses are selling less quickly and prices are no longer increasing as rapidly as they were in the spring, according to local data and interviews with brokers.
In Manhattan, the average sales price fell almost 13 percent in the third quarter from the second quarter, according to a widely followed report to be released today by Miller Samuel, an appraisal firm, and Prudential Douglas Elliman, a real estate firm. The amount of time it took to sell a home was also up 30.4 percent over the same period. 
 In another sign that the housing market might have reached a peak, executives at big home builders have sold almost $1 billion worth of company stock this year. [Page C1.] 
 Outside Washington, in Fairfax County, Va., the number of homes on the market in August rose nearly 50 percent from August 2004. In the Boston suburb of Brookline, Mass., where many three-bedroom houses cost $1 million or more, the inventory of homes for sale has increased in just the last few weeks, said Chobee Hoy, a broker there. 
 For-sale listings have also swelled throughout California, according to the California Association of Realtors. In the San Francisco Bay area, they have increased 16 percent in the last year, Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage said. 
 ''We are seeing a market in transition,'' Leslie Appleton-Young, the association's chief economist, said. 
 Brokers said that some houses seemed to be on the market longer because sellers priced them too high, assuming that their value was still rising sharply. In other cases, people who otherwise would have waited a year or two to sell their homes -- like empty nesters ready to move into smaller quarters -- had listed them now out of fear that prices would soon fall.
 The question remains whether all of this represents a momentary cooling off of some overheated housing markets, or it presages a more pronounced downturn that would end a decade-long boom.
 Some economists and commentators have for years predicted the bursting of a real estate bubble, and previous slowdowns have turned out to be relatively brief pauses before prices started accelerating again.
 But with mortgage rates now rising, the cost of gasoline hovering at or near $3 a gallon and house prices in some areas out of reach for many families, brokers and analysts said they thought that this slowdown could be the real thing. 
 For now, the change remains a far cry from the bursting bubble that some have predicted. 
 In Massachusetts, for example, the median house price remained flat from July to August, and the median condominium price fell only slightly, according to the Realtors' association there. At the start of the year, prices had been rising at an annual rate of more than 15 percent.
 If anything, some brokers said, the recent slowdown meant a return to a healthier, more sustainable market.
 ''What we had was abnormal,'' said Dottie Herman, chief executive of Prudential Douglas Elliman. ''People get used to abnormal times and then when they're normal, they think there's something wrong.''
 Alexander Shakhov, 47, listed his two-bedroom house in Frederick, Md., an outer suburb of Washington, for $529,000 in July, and it remained unsold for the rest of the summer. A
 month ago, he reduced the price to $499,000 at the suggestion of a broker. A week ago, Mr. Shakhov accepted an offer at the lower price.
 The market ''is not as hot as the last two years,'' Mr. Shakhov, a scientist at a biotechnology company, said, ''but I'm pretty happy.''
 He bought the house three years ago for $230,000. He now lives in Cleveland, where he has bought a home that is nearly twice as large as his Frederick house for less money.
 The cooling off has forced both sellers and real estate agents to begin changing their attitudes about residential property, many said. 
 Houses that are priced too high are sometimes on the market for weeks or months now, rather than fetching even more money than their owners had imagined they could get.
 In Manhattan, the average sales price of co-op and condominium apartments fell 12.7 percent, to $1.15 million, in the three months that ended on Sept. 30 compared with the second quarter, according to the Prudential Douglas Elliman report. The median sales price -- which means half of homes sold for more and half for less -- fell 3.2 percent, to $750,000.
 Still, the average sales price was 10 percent higher this summer than it was a year earlier, according to the study.
 Nationally, housing prices rose at the fastest rates since 1979 in the 12 months through August, the National Association of Realtors said last week. 
 But the changes that real estate agents have seen in recent weeks -- increased inventories and longer sales times -- have often preceded market slowdowns in the past.
 One reason properties are remaining on the market longer is that sellers still expect to reap double-digit price appreciation each year.
 ''What will slow this market down, and has slowed certain segments of the market down, is overpricing,'' said Pamela Liebman, chief executive of the Corcoran Group, a large real estate firm in New York. ''Back in the spring, there was such a frenzy that very pedestrian product was drawing multiple bids.''
 Some of today's sellers appear to be pricing their homes as if the frenzy were continuing.
 ''Their neighbors sold their house when the market was red-hot, and everybody thinks their house is better than their neighbor's house,'' said Maggie Tomkiewicz, the president of the Massachusetts Association of Realtors and a broker in South Dartmouth. ''But when the neighbor sold, there may not have been five other houses on the market'' in the area.
 The slowdown has also jolted the thousands of people who have become licensed brokers in the last few years. Until now, many of them knew only galloping price appreciation.
 ''I've gotten these calls from newer agents saying: 'I've had this property on the market for 60 to 90 days. What do I do?''' related Buzz Mackintosh, an owner of Mackintosh Realtors in Frederick, who has been selling houses for two decades. ''And I say, 'It's called, 'Reduce your price.'''
 Indications of a slowdown have appeared before. Jonathan Miller, president of Miller Samuel, said the last time that average and median sales prices dropped below those the previous quarter at the same time that inventories and sales duration rose in Manhattan was in the fourth quarter of 2002. But by the end of 2003, the market had come back. 
 An important difference now, though, is that mortgage rates are creeping up, whereas previous comebacks have been fueled by ever-lower rates. 
 On five-year adjustable-rate mortgages -- a popular loan with a fixed interest rate for the first five years -- the initial rate has risen to 5.59 percent on average, from 5.14 percent in June, according to BankRate.com.
 What is more, some mortgage lenders have started to tighten credit standards, making it harder for buyers to get loans.
 ''Low interest rates and easy credit standards are just about over,'' said Kenneth Rosen, chairman of the Fisher Center for Real Estate and Urban Economics at the University of California, Berkeley.


Q3 '04
AVG. PRICE PER SQUARE FT.: $803
DAYS ON THE MARKET: 108
NUMBER OF PROPERTIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE: 5,112

Q3 '05
AVG. PRICE PER SQUARE FT.: $984
DAYS ON THE MARKET: 133
NUMBER OF PROPERTIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE: 5,764

Change
AVG. PRICE PER SQUARE FT.: 23%
DAYS ON THE MARKET: 24
NUMBER OF PROPERTIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE: 13

Co-ops

Q3 '04
AVG. PRICE PER SQUARE FT.:$723
DAYS ON THE MARKET: 111
NUMBER OF PROPERTIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE: 3,373

Q4 '05
AVG. PRICE PER SQUARE FT.: $887
DAYS ON THE MARKET: 129
NUMBER OF PROPERTIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE: 3,441

Change
AVG. PRICE PER SQUARE FT.: 23%
DAYS ON THE MARKET: 16
NUMBER OF PROPERTIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE: 2

Condos

Q3 '04
AVG. PRICE PER SQUARE FT.: $928
DAYS ON THE MARKET: 102
NUMBER OF PROPERTIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE: 1,739

Q3 '05
AVG. PRICE PER SQUARE FT.: $1,105
DAYS ON THE MARKET: 137
NUMBER OF PROPERTIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE: 2,323

Change
AVG. PRICE PER SQUARE FT.: 19%
DAYS ON THE MARKET: 34
NUMBER OF PROPERTIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE: 34

(Source by Prudential Douglas Elliman Manhattan Market Overview)(pg. C6)

GRAPHIC: Photo: A row of homes in Washington. In Fairfax County, Va., homes for sale rose nearly 50 percent in August. (Photo by Tim Sloan/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. C6)Chart: ''A Shifting Market?''As real estate sales slow, inventories rise. This is sometimes an early sign of a cooling market.Manhattan*

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); EMPTY NESTERS (73%); GASOLINE (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); INTEREST RATES (60%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Housing; Housing

COMPANY: COLDWELL BANKER RESIDENTIAL BROKERAGE CO (90%); DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (57%)

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (90%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (90%)

PERSON: David Leonhardt; Motoko Rich

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; Manhattan (NYC); Fairfax County (Va); Brookline (Mass); California

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2005



81 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: CENSUS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Population Loss Altering Louisiana Political Landscape

BYLINE: By JEREMY ALFORD

DATELINE: BATON ROUGE, La., Oct. 3 

 BODY:
The two recent gulf hurricanes may result in a significant loss of population for Louisiana, and state officials are now virtually certain that Louisiana will lose a Congressional seat -- along with federal financing and national influence -- after the 2010 census.
 Having dislodged more than a million people in southern Louisiana alone, Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita are also likely to alter the state's political landscape, demographers and political experts say, reducing the domination of New Orleans over the State Legislature and increasing the influence of suburban and rural areas.
With a low-wage economy and consistently poor educational performance, Louisiana was losing population even before the hurricanes. The state had a net loss of more than 75,000 people from 1995 to 2000, according to census figures. But the physical and psychological damage inflicted by the hurricanes could push tens of thousands, and possibly hundreds of thousands, of people out of the state for good, state officials say, comparable only to the Dust Bowl during the Great Depression and possibly the 1927 floods. 
 ''I'm not sure if history is going to help us with this because we've never had anything like it,'' said Karen Paterson, the state demographer. ''But we have not shown a positive net migration in many years. I would expect that we would experience a significant loss of population statewide.''
 With evacuees now making decisions on whether to plant roots elsewhere, and the geographical future of New Orleans in question, it is impossible to say with any precision how many people will be in Louisiana at the end of the decade. A dependable number will have to wait until the 2010 census.
 The numbers available now, however, are staggering. About 1.5 million people were initially evacuated from the damaged regions, roughly 1 million have applied for hurricane-related federal aid, 30,000 are in out-of-state shelters, 46,400 are in in-state shelters and 932 people have perished in the storms. Officials are unsure how many people are staying in hotels or with family and friends. 
 Many here were already expecting Louisiana to lose one of its seven Congressional seats because of existing out-migration and high growth rates in other states, but the impact of the hurricanes has solidified fears.
 Glenn Koepp, secretary of the Louisiana State Senate and one of the main officials in the state's redistricting office, said Louisiana had fallen so far behind other states that even if it managed to increase by 7,000 people in the next five years, it would still lose a Congressional seat.
 Elliott Stonecipher, a political analyst and demographer based in Shreveport, said the state faced a long-term reduction in federal aid as its population diminishes.
 ''The result is direct,'' said Mr. Stonecipher, who was formerly an assistant superintendent with the state Department of Education. ''With the loss of population there will be a matching loss of revenue. You pick it. Look at education, whether it be Title IX or special education. This will be devastating.'' 
 Many politicians are also keeping a close eye on population movement within the state. 
 Within 48 hours after Hurricane Katrina made landfall, Baton Rouge became Louisiana's largest city, doubling to about 800,000 residents. Local officials are now trying to get a population survey up and running to seek federal aid.
 Mr. Koepp said this population shift could actually be the early stages of the deterioration of New Orleans' long-term hold over the State Legislature. ''If this holds true, there will be a significant political change,'' he said. 
 There are now 21 seats in the House and Senate that encompass or touch on Orleans Parish, of 144 total seats statewide. 
 But if the population fails to return to the parish in coming years, New Orleans may be confined to just a few seats in each chamber through redistricting, Mr. Koepp added. That could change the state's racial and partisan balance.
 If evacuees from the Ninth Ward in New Orleans -- a reliable bloc of 30,000 black voters that is traditionally easy to mobilize -- choose suburban or rural areas over their urban roots in coming years, it could be a political blow to Democrats, said Roy Fletcher, a political consultant from Shreveport who helped elect former Gov. Mike Foster, a Republican. 
 ''It would give a whole lot of a stronger foothold to Republicans in the Legislature and statewide,'' Mr. Fletcher said. ''Louisiana has always been a swing state, a purple state that's both blue and red. You take the Ninth Ward out of that equation and you get a real shot of Republicans winning statewide office.'' 
 Barry Erwin, president of a Council for a Better Louisiana, a nonpartisan nonprofit group that monitors the activities of state government, said such a change could forever alter the political landscape. 
 ''These things are symbolic of a divide that we've always had,'' he said. ''There's an us versus them thing. In New Orleans, it's like us, and then there's the rest of the state. Around the rest of the state, it's like us, and then there's New Orleans. This could change all of that.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Discarded refrigerators sat on a New Orleans street yesterday, a reminder of Hurricane Katrina's destruction. Louisiana officials say population loss from two hurricanes is likely to cost the state a Congressional seat. (Photo by Charlie Riedel/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CENSUS (91%); POPULATION DECLINE (90%); WEATHER (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); REDISTRICTING (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); POLITICS (76%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (70%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Rita (Storm); Reapportionment; Elections; Census

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: Jeremy Alford

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (73%) LOUISIANA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) Louisiana; New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2005



82 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10

A Quiet, Risky Move To Ensure Iraqi Charter
Iraq's Shiite and Kurdish leaders quietly adopted new rules that will make it virtually impossible for the constitution to fail in the coming national referendum, prompting Sunni Arabs and a range of independent political figures to complain that the vote was being fixed. Some Sunni leaders said they might boycott the vote. A1

Divorce Rate Rising in China
Once a dreaded fate for women in China, divorce is now viewed by many younger urban women as something of a civil right, helping to drive up divorce rates significantly. While the surge is not an uncommon phenomenon for a developing nation, some feel it is yet another barometer of how Western influences have rippled through Chinese society. A9

Palestinian Police Protest
More than 30 Palestinian policemen charged onto the grounds of the Palestinian parliament in Gaza City and fired weapons into the air, demanding more government support in a growing confrontation with the Islamic faction Hamas. A3

E.U. Opens Talks With Turkey
Turkey and the European Union held a brief ceremony that formally opened talks on Turkey's bid to join the union, setting into motion a process that will probably take a decade or more but could end with the European Union extending its borders to embrace a predominantly Muslim country. A9

Schroder May Step Aside
Chancellor Gerhard Schroder softened his resistance to giving up his post, hinting for the first time that he would not oppose a decision by his party to share power with the opposition conservatives. A10

Spain Captures ETA Leader
Spain's Interior Ministry announced that Harriet Aguirre Garcia, the No. 2 leader of the militant Basque separatist group ETA, had been arrested during a police raid in southwestern France. A10

NATIONAL A12-25

Bush Names Counsel To Replace Retiring Justice
President Bush named Harriet E. Miers, the inconspicuous White House counsel and a longtime member of his inner circle, as his choice to replace Justice Sandra Day O'Connor on the Supreme Court. A1

If Ms. Miers takes a seat on the Supreme Court, she will be the lone sitting justice without experience as a federal appeals court judge. Legal scholars say that could make a difference. A24

Group Protests Gun Law
A national anti-gun group is riling Gov. Jeb Bush and Florida's mighty tourism industry by warning visitors that arguing with locals could get them shot dead. A12

2nd Texas Indictment for DeLay
A grand jury in Texas issued a second indictment against Representative Tom DeLay, accusing him and two aides of money-laundering in a $190,000 transaction that may violate the state's ban on the use of corporate money in local elections. A18

Combating Rising Fuel Costs
The Energy Department announced a campaign to persuade Americans to use less energy, a response to record prices for gas and heating oil as cooler weather arrives. A21

Hurricanes May Affect Census
The two recent hurricanes may result in a significant loss of population for Louisiana, and state officials are now virtually certain that Louisiana will lose a Congressional seat -- along with federal financing and national influence -- after the 2010 census. A16

EDUCATION

Merit Pay for State Teachers
Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts has a bold plan to improve public education in his state by offering up to $5,000 in merit pay and tying a teacher's annual salary to classroom performance. A12

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

City and Teachers Reach Tentative Contract
The Bloomberg administration and the New York City teachers' union reached a tentative contract accord that calls for raises of 14.25 percent over 52 months, requires teachers to work longer hours, and establishes a new master teacher position with higher pay. A1

Tour Boat Was Understaffed
The tour boat that capsized in Lake George on Sunday, killing 20 elderly sightseers from Michigan and Ohio, did not have the two crew members aboard required by its license, officials said. B1

Motel Cited for Fire Hazard
The residential motel in Irvington, N.J., where three people died in a fire on Sunday morning was cited twice in the past year for illegally chaining its exit doors shut, the authorities said. B1
FASHION B9

SCIENCE TIMES F1-8

Nobel Prize Winners Named
Two Australian scientists who upset medical dogma by discovering a bacterium that causes stomach inflamation and cancer won the 2005 Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine. F5
Health & Fitness F5

SPORTSTUESDAYD1-8

ARTS E1-10

OBITUARIES C19

Nipsey Russell
A comedian whose impromptu rhymes made him one of television's most popular talk-show guests during the 1970's, he was 80. C19

BUSINESS DAY C1-18

Real Estate Slowdown Seen
A real estate slowdown that began in a handful of cities this summer has spread to almost every hot housing market in the country, including New York, according to local data and interviews with brokers. A1

Decline in S.U.V. Sales
Industrywide sales of sport utility vehicles were down 43 percent in September compared with the same month a year earlier, according to Ward's AutoInfoBank. C1

No Longer Unreachable
As federal regulators reassess the rules barring phones in the air, some business travelers are already ruing the loss of something they privately relish -- the digital downtime they experience at 35,000 feet. C1

Preview of Xbox 360 Games
This week Microsoft will unveil games for its new video game machine, the Xbox 360, hoping to convince gamers that the 360 will be a must-buy this holiday season. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: The president's stealth nominee; health care for Katrina victims; finally, a teachers' contract; Verlyn Klinkenborg on vernacular faces.

Columns: John Tierney, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E6
TV Listings E8-9
Weather D7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); BASQUE HOMELAND & FREEDOM (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); INDICTMENTS (88%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (87%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); REFERENDUMS (77%); WOMEN (77%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); FIREARMS (73%); SHOOTINGS (73%); HAMAS (73%); RELIGION (73%); BOYCOTTS (72%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (68%); GRAND JURY (68%); ARRESTS (68%); MONEY LAUNDERING (63%); APPEALS COURTS (61%); JUDGES (61%); GUN CONTROL (60%); TOURISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%); HAMAS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); GERHARD SCHRODER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); SPAIN (93%); TURKEY (93%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2005



83 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: Europeans Set Arms Embargo To Protest Uzbeks' Crackdown 

BYLINE: By C.J. CHIVERS

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Oct. 3 

 BODY:
The European Union imposed sanctions on Uzbekistan on Monday, seeking to punish the country for its refusal to allow an international investigation into the bloody crackdown of an uprising in May in Andijon.
 The sanctions embargo exports to Uzbekistan of arms and equipment that might be used for internal repression, and suspend meetings between the union and Uzbekistan that were intended to accelerate the nation's reconciliation with the West after decades as a Soviet republic. The sanctions also ban travel by Uzbek officials directly involved in the Andijon crackdown to the 25 members of the European Union.
The decision followed months of diplomatic tension over Uzbekistan after a prison break and antigovernment demonstration in Andijon on May 13. The demonstration, which survivors said included several thousand people, was scattered by gunfire from Uzbek troops and armored vehicles. 
 Survivors and independent organizations claim that hundreds of people were killed, almost all of them unarmed. 
 Uzbekistan, an autocratic Central Asian state that had been an ally in the Bush administration's counterterrorism efforts, has countered that the crackdown was necessary to combat terrorism, and said that only 187 people, described as mostly Islamic terrorists, were killed. It has resisted calls for an investigation. 
 As criticism over the violence increased in the spring and summer, Uzbekistan sharply shifted its foreign policy, aligning more closely with Russia and China. In July it ordered the United States to leave an airbase that Washington had been using since 2001, an eviction scheduled for early next year. 
 Meeting in Luxembourg, European Union foreign ministers approved the sanctions for one year, allowing for a review in 2006 of Uzbekistan's willingness to ''adhere to the principles of respect for human rights, rule of law and fundamental freedoms.''
 Besides weapons and ammunition, the trade ban covers dozens of items that could be used in crackdowns and police work, including helmets and certain types of body armor, armored vehicles, leg irons, shackles, tear gas, water cannons, riot shields, fingerprint equipment, searchlights, equipment for intercepting or jamming communications and night-vision goggles.
 The sanctions also suspend scheduled meetings under the so-called Partnership and Cooperation Agreement, the blueprint that since 1999 has helped develop the European Union's political relations with Uzbekistan and guide economic relations in trade, transport, customs, postal services, telecommunications and other areas. 
 Uzbekistan had no immediate reaction to the sanctions, which were announced in the evening well after government offices had closed. Human Rights Watch, an organization based in New York that has investigated the Andijon crackdown and repression, welcomed the move. 
 But the sanctions have a limited ability to undermine Uzbekistan's military or police forces, which are overwhelmingly equipped with Soviet-era military hardware that is still produced and sold by Russia, China and other non-European Union states. 
 Moreover, Russia has made clear that it will not honor the embargo, which may offer fresh trade opportunities for its arms industry, a sector that has rebounded under prodding from President Vladimir V. Putin.
 ''There are no restrictions on weapons supplies to Uzbekistan,'' Sergei B. Ivanov, the Russian defense minister, said last week in anticipation of the embargo, according to the Interfax news agency. ''We will continue to develop further relations with Uzbekistan.''
 The potential effects of the travel restrictions are also uncertain. President Islam A. Karimov and Col. Gen. Zakirdzhon Almatov, the interior minister, were in Andijon during the uprising, and have been accused by survivors of ordering and directing the violence against the crowd. 
 But the European Union has not yet drawn up a public list of officials it suspects of involvement, so it was not immediately clear which officials might face travel restrictions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); ARMS TRADE (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ARMS EMBARGOES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); RIOTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (77%); POLICE FORCES (75%); FIREARMS (74%); SHOOTINGS (74%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); APPROVALS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); ARMED FORCES (68%); NIGHT VISION DEVICES (61%); FINES & PENALTIES (58%); RELIGION (52%) Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Demonstrations and Riots; Freedom and Human Rights

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%)

PERSON: C J Chivers

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UZBEKISTAN (96%); EUROPE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); LUXEMBOURG (73%) Uzbekistan; Andijon (Uzbekistan); European Union; Russia; China

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2005



84 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: The Solve-Everything Tax

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
I have a modest proposal to fight global warming, save energy, cut air pollution, ease traffic congestion, reduce highway fatalities and, while we're at it, reform Social Security. 
 All we have to do is raise the federal gasoline tax by 50 cents per gallon and refund all the new revenue directly to Americans by putting it in new Social Security individual accounts. I realize how crazy this sounds, given the current public anger at high gas prices, but bear with me.
The $3-per-gallon price probably isn't going to last. Suppose, as some experts do, that the price will end up sooner or later back around $2 per gallon. And suppose you gradually phase in the tax only when prices fall -- say, an extra dime of tax per gallon whenever the retail price falls by 20 cents. Consumers would still see their costs declining at the pump, so there'd be no sudden shock at any tax increase. 
 Some people would complain about any new tax, but at least they'd get their money back. Americans hate seeing today's gas taxes being diverted to thousands of pork-barrel projects like horse trails in Virginia and the bridge to nowhere in Alaska. These new tax revenues would be divided equally among all workers and go right into their personal accounts.
 As much as Democrats hate private accounts, they couldn't complain that anyone was ''raiding'' the Social Security ''trust fund'' for these accounts. Recalcitrant Democrats would have to explain why they oppose an energy policy favored by environmentalists and a social program that would transfer money to the poor. Since low-income people tend to drive less than the average American, they pay less in gas taxes than average, so they'd make money when the revenue was divided equally.
 Any new tax, of course, terrifies Republicans. When I mentioned this idea to one White House official, he went immediately into off-the-record mode and warned me, ''You realize you're never going to get invited to Grover's Wednesday meetings.'' Those are the weekly conservative strategy sessions convened by Grover Norquist, the head of Americans for Tax Reform and enforcer of the no-tax pledge signed by a majority of the members of the House.
 But Norquist reassured me I would not be cast into the abyss. He said a 50-cent gas tax, with all the revenue refunded to personal accounts, wasn't verboten. ''If it were attached to one of the annual tax cuts that we've been passing so that the overall package reduced taxes, it wouldn't violate the no-tax pledge,'' he said.
 Some conservatives I consulted, on and off Capitol Hill, were opposed to the new tax and didn't like taxing drivers to pay for retirement accounts. But others were intrigued by the prospect of offering Democrats something new in exchange for pension reform. 
 ''If you used a gas tax as an end run to start personal accounts for people, you might strengthen their savings habits and get them to start contributing their own money,'' said Gary Becker, the Nobel laureate economist. He and other economists especially liked the notion of encouraging energy conservation through a gas tax instead of the current approach of mandating fuel-economy standards for cars. 
 A 50-cent tax would save much more gasoline and avoid some of the perverse effects of the fuel-economy rules, which encourage people to drive more because their new cars save them money on gas. A gas tax makes people drive less, not only saving gas but also easing congestion on the roads and reducing pollution. 
 Although 50 cents per gallon may seem high (slightly more than the total current federal and state taxes on gas), it's in line with the calculations of the economists Ian Parry and Kenneth Small. They figure that the tax should increase 60 cents per gallon to compensate for the congestion, pollution and other costs that drivers impose on society.
 A 50-cent tax increase would reduce driving but still yield nearly $70 billion in extra revenue annually, according to Peter Van Doren, the editor of the journal Regulation at the Cato Institute. There would be enough to put about $440 into the personal account of every worker now paying into Social Security.
 As those workers watched their nest eggs grow, they'd want to put more of their Social Security taxes into personal accounts instead of the mythical trust fund now being squandered by Congress. And then, after we've reformed Social Security while saving the planet, we could take on something really challenging.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); FUEL TAX (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); EXCISE TAX (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); GASOLINE (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); TAX REFORM (74%); AIR QUALITY (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); AIR POLLUTION (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (72%) Taxation; Excise Taxes; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Social Security (US); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: JOHN F TIERNEY (50%) John Tierney

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2005



85 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 114 words

HEADLINE: Can't We Do Better on Health Care?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Nicholas D. Kristof is rightly concerned about the 45 million Americans who do not have health insurance. But a single-payer system like Canada's is not the only way to address the issue of the uninsured.
Both the Netherlands and Israel, for example, have multipayer health care systems with everyone fully insured. Administrative costs can be higher than with a single-payer system, but clearly, Americans are willing to bear these costs of competition in every industry in the economy rather than see a single seller, buyer or payer in each industry.

Warren Greenberg
Washington, Oct. 2, 2005

The writer is a professor of health economics at George Washington University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (88%); WRITERS (86%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: Warren (Prof) Greenberg; Nicholas D Kristof

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); NETHERLANDS (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2005



86 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 174 words

HEADLINE: Can't We Do Better on Health Care?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Nicholas D. Kristof compared the United States health care system with Canada's socialistic system.
 Comparing administrative costs in the two countries is an apples-and-oranges argument. Canada's system is really 10 provincial systems that economized by closing hospitals and reducing the number of doctors per capita.
 Canadians are willing to line up for cataract surgery, hip replacements and cardiac bypass surgery. Pharmaceutical costs are lower because of government control. 
 Though the United States has many uninsured (who still get medical care), many Canadians have limited access to their universal program, with long waits for doctor appointments and delays in hospital care.
 Canada has a much better record of immunization and other preventive services in a less expensive system. Infant mortality rates are better in Canada. Differences in the systems have more to do with education than with economics.

Lazarus J. Loeb, M.D.
Fort Worth, Oct. 2, 2005

The writer is former president of the Ontario Medical Association.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (88%); HOSPITALS (88%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (71%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (71%); CATARACTS (70%); INFANT MORTALITY (52%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care

COMPANY: AETNA INC (58%)

TICKER: AET (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (58%)

PERSON: Lazarus J (Dr) Loeb; Nicholas D Kristof

GEOGRAPHIC: ONTARIO, CANADA (58%) CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%) Canada

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2005



87 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: Time for a Gasoline Tax

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 John Tierney cites a study showing that appliance efficiency standards do not pay for themselves and cost consumers billions of dollars. On the contrary. For example, since refrigerator standards were put into effect in the 1980's, new refrigerators use less than half the energy of old models, offer more features, and cost the same on an inflation-adjusted basis.
Government standards send a market signal to business that encourages innovation. We've seen industry rise to the challenge by improving technology and reducing costs. 

Berl Hartman
Cambridge, Mass., Oct. 1, 2005

The writer is co-founder of the New England Chapter of Environmental Entrepreneurs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); FUEL TAX (89%); WRITERS (86%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (85%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Conservation of Resources

PERSON: Berl Hartman; John Tierney

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); NORTHEAST USA (51%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2005



88 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Signs of a Real Estate Slowdown Begin Appearing in Different Markets
A real estate slowdown that began in a handful of cities this summer has spread to almost every hot housing market in the country, including New York. More sellers are putting their homes on the market, houses are selling less quickly and prices are no longer increasing as rapidly as they were in the spring, according to local data and interviews with brokers.
 In Manhattan, the average sales price fell almost 13 percent in the third quarter from the second quarter, according to a widely followed report to be released today by Miller Samuel, an appraisal firm, and Prudential Douglas Elliman, a real estate firm. [Page A1.]

Home builders have never had it so good. Builders are reporting blistering earnings and their shares are trading at or near record highs. And many builders are beginning to cash in. [C1.]

Energy Department Begins Campaign to Reduce Fuel Use
The Energy Department announced a campaign to persuade Americans to use less energy, a response to record prices for natural gas and heating oil as cooler weather arrives. The energy secretary, Samuel W. Bodman, said that new supplies were still essential but that they were a long-term solution. To react to the damage from hurricanes Katrina and Rita, Mr. Bodman said, only conservation would offer any immediate help. [A21.]

High-Speed Internet at 35,000 Feet, but Not in America
Boeing's Connexion unit, which sells high-speed Internet access on the aircraft that Boeing builds, has sold its service to airlines in Europe, Asia and the Middle East but airlines in the United States, citing cost concerns, have not bought into it. [C1.]

Security lines, weather delays and equipment failures make flying a burden for many. For Jason Green, it is a slice of heaven, virtually the only place he is not bombarded by phone calls and e-mail messages. But federal regulators are reassessing the rules barring phones in the air. [C1.]

S.U.V. Sales Take a Big Drop in September
Sales of large sport utility vehicles were down 43 percent in September, according to a new report, dealing a blow to General Motors and Ford Motor, which have been increasing their reliance on truck-based S.U.V.'s. Last month, G.M. saw its overall sales fall 24.2 percent and Ford's sales decline 20.3 percent. In contrast, sales at Toyota rose 10.3 percent, Honda increased 11.7 percent and Nissan 16.4 percent. [C1.]

Only Thing Missing From Microsoft 's Xbox 360 Is Games
In the five months since Microsoft unveiled the Xbox 360, the company has tried to generate excitement by staging demonstrations of the console's ability to play music and display digital photographs and by trumpeting its online community features. But something is missing: the games. [C1.]

New Insurance Plan for Part-Time Workers
Dozens of part-time workers at six large companies have begun to sign up for low-cost, limited health benefits in a national program for uninsured employees. [C2.]

US Airways Repurchases Stake From a Federal Agency
US Airways said it would pay $115.8 million to buy stock warrants that had given the federal government a sizeable stake in America West, which merged with US Airways last week. [C2.]

Stocks Mixed Amid Concerns About Inflation
Stocks were mixed after a report showed that the nation's manufacturing sector was expanding but costs were rising. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 33.22 points, to 10,535.48. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 2.11, at 1,226.70, and the Nasdaq gained 3.74, to 2,155.43. [C11.]

A $3.3 Million Merger of Real Estate Companies
Brandywine Realty Trust, a real estate investment trust based in suburban Philadelphia, said it had reached an agreement to acquire Prentiss Properties Trust of Dallas in a cash, stock and debt-assumption deal that the companies said was worth about $3.3 billion. Both companies specialize in the development, ownership and management primarily of office buildings. [C4.]

Manufacturers Expanded Last Month, but Costs Climbed
The nation's manufacturing sector shook off the impact of Hurricane Katrina and robustly expanded during September, but prices for raw materials surged, raising the prospect of higher inflation and interest rates. [C4.]

Egg Producers Alter Labels Over Care Implications
The label ''Animal Care Certified'' on egg cartons was supposed to assure egg buyers that hens were getting enough food, water and cage space to flap their wings. But after complaints by an animal welfare group that the labels were misleading consumers into thinking that hens were receiving indisputably humane care, the Federal Trade Commission approved a labeling change last week. Advertising [C18.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks Prentiss Properties Trust's share price since July.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); WEATHER (73%); HEATING OIL (71%); HEATING OIL PRICES (71%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (71%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); AIRLINES (69%); COMPUTER GAMES (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (65%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (63%); HURRICANE KATRINA (51%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (74%); DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (57%); BOEING CO (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (74%); F (NYSE) (74%); BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%); GM (NYSE) (52%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (74%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: SAMUEL W BODMAN (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (75%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2005



89 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: NEW ORLEANS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Local Governments Face Bankruptcy, Layoffs or Both

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA and CHRISTINE HAUSER; Jennifer Medina reported from New Orleans for this article, and Christine Hauser from Baton Rouge. Jeremy Alford contributed reporting from Baton Rouge, and Scott Shane from Washington.

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Oct. 3 

 BODY:
Officials in this stricken city are considering laying off as many as 3,000 employees -- nearly 40 percent of city hall's workforce -- to balance the budget. In nearby St. Bernard Parish, 120 municipal employees have already lost their jobs and the parish president is begging for federal assistance to make payroll. 
 The proposed cutbacks and pleas for aid illustrate one legacy of the two hurricanes that lashed the Gulf Coast: with storm losses crippling the economy, municipal governments in southern Louisiana are quickly running out of money and are now seeking federal aid to avoid bankruptcy or huge layoffs and reductions in city services. 
 ''We are asking for help to survive,'' said Henry Rodriguez, the president of St. Bernard Parish, where some 80 percent of the houses are likely to have to be knocked down because of damage. ''We have to let our workers go. Those people that are coming back into the parish will have no services whatsoever.'' 
 Presidents of dozens of parishes hit by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita met with Gov. Kathleen Babineaux Blanco at the Capitol in Baton Rouge on Monday, determining how much money would be needed to pay for critical services to repopulate areas devastated by the storms. 
 Local officials say their tax base has been obliterated since the storms hit the state in the last five weeks. Greg Albrecht, the state's chief economist, told the Legislature last week that at least 120,000 jobs would be lost because of the storm, most in the southern part of the state. 
 Even as businesses and residents have begun to return to the New Orleans area, there is little open for regular business. In St. Bernard Parish, there are no businesses open, Mr. Rodriguez said, completely wiping out the tax base.
 Workers standing outside New Orleans City Hall on Monday, many of them returning to work for the first time in more than a month, were shocked at the prospect of layoffs.
 Most of them had not heard of the possibility of losing their jobs.
 Several said they were still trying to find out whether their supervisors and colleagues were coming back to the city from temporary homes in Houston, Baton Rouge and Lafayette, La.
 City agencies responsible for public safety in New Orleans, including the police, the fire department and emergency medical services, will be spared the brunt of any cuts, said Sally Forman, a spokeswoman for Mayor C. Ray Nagin.
 Other services critical to rebuilding the city, including health, electrical and sewerage departments, may also be protected from the largest cuts. But employees deemed nonessential are likely to be the hardest hit. 
 ''We're facing major budgetary issues while we begin to try to get things back to normal,'' Ms. Forman said. ''We'd like to be able to fund city services, but knowing that until we have a tax base again, we're not going to have a city government that we should.''
 It is unclear how many municipal employees in New Orleans have already returned to their jobs in the city, or plan to do so. The city last paid its workers on Friday. In St. Bernard, Mr. Rodriguez estimated that the parish had only enough money for another two pay periods. The city's total operating budget is $57 million.
 Some of the most lucrative tax bases in the rural parishes surrounding New Orleans have been wiped out. While oil and gas prices are soaring, production has been crippled along Louisiana's coastline; officials say about 97 percent of oil production in the Gulf of Mexico is still shut down.
 Under current federal regulations, the aid the Federal Emergency Management Agency provides local governments is limited to overtime for public employees dealing with an emergency. But Governor Blanco and local leaders are asking Congress to waive those regulations and provide money to parishes for as long as they need to stay solvent. 
 ''I don't think that we've seen a catastrophic event like this before where local governments were completely devastated and in some cases lost their entire tax base,'' Governor Blanco said. ''This is a unique situation and that's why we're asking for a unique response.''
 Mike McCormick, a spokesman for FEMA, said that the federal government had historically paid only the ''extraordinary costs'' of local governments and that the agency could not change this policy unilaterally.
 With conservatives in Congress already complaining about spending levels, it was not clear how the request would be received.
 The number of dead in Louisiana now stands at 964.
 Responding to widespread criticism, the White House on Monday rescinded the $250,000 limit it had placed on federal government credit cards for use in Hurricane Katrina relief efforts.
 In instructions issued to government agencies, the Office of Management and Budget restored the usual $2,500 limit for so-called micropurchases.
 The limit can be raised to $15,000 under some circumstances. An emergency appropriations bill passed early last month had increased the ceiling to $250,000 for Hurricane Katrina recovery needs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); HURRICANES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); WEATHER (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITIES (89%); DISMISSALS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); HURRICANE KATRINA (76%); TROPICAL STORMS (76%); CITY LIFE (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%) Government Employees; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm)

PERSON: KATHLEEN BLANCO (72%) Jennifer Medina; Christine Hauser; Kathleen (Gov) Babineaux

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Louisiana; New Orleans (La); St Bernard Parish (La)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2005



90 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Mission Creep 

BYLINE: By Mark D. Gearan. 
Mark D. Gearan, president of Hobart and William Smith Colleges, was Peace Corps director from 1995 to 1999.

DATELINE: Geneva, N.Y. 

 BODY:
OF the many ways that Americans serve the public good, service in the armed forces holds a special pre-eminence. For obvious reasons, the tremendous personal risks undertaken and sacrifices made by armed service members on behalf of all Americans are elevated and more poignant during war time.
 But there's another way to serve the public, and that's through the Peace Corps. The idea behind the Peace Corps, created at the height of the cold war, was a simple one: Americans -- serving as representatives of the American people, not the United States government -- would promote economic development and international understanding by working as volunteers alongside people in other countries. 
Obviously the armed forces and the Peace Corps serve the national interest, but they do so in fundamentally different ways. Making this distinction clear -- letting the world know that the Peace Corps is an independent entity -- has been a basic tenet of American policy for decades. 
 Unfortunately, this line has been blurred. In August, the military began promoting a recruitment program that allows soldiers, after a period of active and reserve duty, to fulfill their commitment by serving in the Peace Corps. By 2007, about 4,300 recruits will be eligible for this option. 
 How did this happen? Three years ago, a provision for this enlistment incentive was inserted in a defense authorization bill and enacted into law without hearings or any apparent consultation with Peace Corps officials. However well-intentioned, this provision unwittingly abandoned longstanding policy that is essential to the Peace Corps mission and the personal safety of individual volunteers.
 Peace Corps service -- by a law enacted in 1961 -- has never been an exemption for military service obligations, including the draft. This distinction was meant to signal that Peace Corps service was different in nature from military service.
 Perceptions matter. Over five decades, members of Congress and presidents of both parties have recognized that for Peace Corps volunteers to succeed, their actual and perceived service must be what it purports to be. Former Secretary of State Dean Rusk said it best: ''To make the Peace Corps an instrument of foreign policy would be to rob it of its contributions to foreign policy.'' Indeed, it was President Ronald Reagan who signed into law a bill 24 years ago that recognized this unique, essential character of the Peace Corps and made it an independent federal agency.
 The Peace Corps conducts programs only in places where it is invited. Peace Corps volunteers are neither federal employees nor official representatives of the United States government. They receive a modest living allowance, not a salary, and have no diplomatic privileges or immunities. They live in homes with host-country families, and they are protected, not by security forces, but by the concern of neighbors and colleagues in the communities in which they live and work. By law, they are required to become proficient in the local language and to conduct themselves in a manner that respects the local culture.
 Damaging the trust and goodwill that has been established around the world by adherence to these policies would be devastating to the Peace Corps, in some places closing the door to Peace Corps volunteers and even subjecting them to heightened risk.
 Tucking in a provision that makes Peace Corps service an incentive to boost armed forces recruitment was a mistake. President Bush should ask Congress to repeal this provision before the current session adjourns.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); VOLUNTEERS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); MILITARY RECRUITING (78%); COLD WAR (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); LEGISLATION (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%) United States Armament and Defense; Draft and Recruitment (Military)

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS (94%) Peace Corps; Peace Corps

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%) Mark D Gearan; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2005



91 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; AN APPRECIATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1429 words

HEADLINE: August Wilson Revealed Lives as Sagas of Nobility

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY

 BODY:
August Wilson did not sound a thing like Bessie Smith. He didn't, anyway, when I spent an afternoon with him in Pittsburgh 10 years ago, when I was doing an interview for this newspaper. 
 His voice was soft, amused, a bit academic, like that of someone enjoying a bustling view from a comfortable distance. Comfortable and distant are not words that come to mind with Smith, whose recordings from the 1930's still thunder with bottomless anger and appetite.
Yet recently, I haven't been able to listen to Smith without hearing Mr. Wilson, too, singing along in a whispery annotation. That day in Pittsburgh, he was elaborating on something he had said before, about how discovering Bessie's recordings had upended and transformed the way he wrote plays. And suddenly, after apologizing that he couldn't ''sing a lick,'' Mr. Wilson was intoning lines from the first Smith recording he owned, when he was a teenager. 
 ''Daddy, I want some diamond rings,'' he rasped quietly, his eyes bright and conspiratorial. He was leaning over a table in a diner in the Hill District, where Mr. Wilson, who died on Sunday, grew up and where most of his plays are set, beating time with a coffee spoon on the Formica, making the rhythm ring. 
 That half-sung, half-spoken phrase and its metallic percussion have been stuck in my mind since I learned that Mr. Wilson was diagnosed with terminal liver cancer at 60. For those are the sounds of how one dramatist -- a great dramatist -- listens. Mr. Wilson was letting me hear something I thought I knew, but with his ears. And after that, with every play by Mr. Wilson I've attended, I've felt as if I could hear him hearing Bessie's blues. 
 People talk about an artist having an eye. But with playwrights, it's the ear that counts. Mr. Wilson had a peerless pair. His writing comes closer to the sweep of Shakespearean music than that of any of his contemporaries. Edward Albee creates intense and elegant chamber pieces; David Mamet, machine-gun jazz; Sam Shepard, rhapsodic plainsong; Harold Pinter, monastic chants; and Tom Stoppard, jaunty concertos. But these days only Mr. Wilson has written plays that sound like grand opera -- and it is no contradiction to say that it is opera rooted in the blues.
 Mr. Wilson's majestic cycle of 10 plays of the African-American journey through the 20th century, each set in a different decade, doesn't just sound operatic. Even though his characters are almost all poor and socially powerless, their stories bring to minds the gods of Wagner and the doomed royalty of Verdi.
 Poltergeists, mad prophets, fatal curses, visions of unavenged dead men and of roads to heaven, genealogies that twist into constellations of legend, and bloody crimes of passion that seem as inevitable as they are unnecessary. These elements recur regularly in the works of the Wilson cycle, the last of which (''Radio Golf'') was first produced this year. 
 Yet the mythic and otherworldly are always anchored to a landscape dominated by the physical and economic facts of hard lives: the exact costs of shoes and coffins and bottles of liquor; the potential for profit in stolen refrigerators and dog feces; precise psychological descriptions of bodies scarred and shattered by knives and bullets; the hungry before and depleted after of quick sexual couplings. It is the music of Mr. Wilson's prose that connects the mundane and the mystical, and allows earthbound men and women to raise voices that fly to heaven. 
 In ''Ma Rainey's Black Bottom,'' Mr. Wilson's 1984 breakthrough drama about a fractious recording session of blues artists in the 1920's, the combustible title character speaks about the music she performs. ''White folks don't understand about the blues,'' she says. ''They hear it come out, but they don't know how it got there. They don't understand that's life's way of talking. You don't sing to feel better. You sing 'cause that's a way of understanding life.'' 
 Not everyone in Mr. Wilson's plays -- including, by the way, Ma Rainey -- is always in touch with this music of illumination. Nor is this music the same for everyone. Mr. Wilson's major characters are all in search of songs that define them both as individuals, as specifically as handwriting, and as parts of a shared history. 
 In a prefatory note to his masterpiece, ''Joe Turner's Come and Gone'' (on Broadway in 1988), set in 1911, Mr. Wilson writes of the African-Americans who have made the exodus from the South to the North: ''Foreigners in a strange land, they carry as part and parcel of their bags a long line of separation and dispersement'' as they ''search for ways to reconnect, to reassemble, to give clear and luminous meaning to the song which is both a wail and a whelp of joy.'' 
 This describes not only the quest of Mr. Wilson's major characters but also his own emergence as a playwright. Mr. Wilson said -- and said so many times that the story has acquired the burnished sheen of myth -- that it was discovering vintage blues recordings, as a young man living in a Pittsburgh boarding house, that made him start to listen to the people around him with a new sense of the notes beneath the words.
 Transforming that perception into fluid theater took Mr. Wilson years. He spoke with wry disparagement of the self-conscious poetry of his early work. But it would be foolish to mistake the voices in his plays as mere transcription of overheard conversations from the Hill. That would be like assuming that Elizabethans spoke in Shakespearean blank verse.
 The actor Charles S. Dutton, who has starred in several of Mr. Wilson's plays, has said of the dialogue: ''It is a lingo that has an inherent rhythm of its own. Most of us have been black all our lives. But we kid each other about August's writing. We'll say, 'I've never heard anything in my life like that, have you?''' 
 Pick up any play by Mr. Wilson, and a few pages into it, you'll start to pulse to the music. He uses real songs, from children's game-playing chants to raunchy scorchers a la Smith like ''Anybody Here Wanna Try My Cabbage'' (in ''Seven Guitars''). And his characters, especially those wild-eyed soothsayer types who show up a bit too persistently, will sometimes speak in the manner of oracular professors about the nature and importance of song. 
 But none of this would count for much if Mr. Wilson didn't deliver the music that infuses his characters' talk. It buzzes like traded jazz riffs when men argue about subjects as pedestrian as train schedules. It acquires the wistfulness of Puccinian lament when lonely souls recall love. It shifts into subversively antiphonal call and response when fathers and sons quarrel in the voices of their respective generations. And it soars into gospel chorales when characters journey into the historical night of their slave ancestors, as in ''Joe Turner'' and ''Gem of the Ocean.'' 
 In such passages, the subliminal movement is from disjointedness and friction into transcendent, seemingly unwitting harmony. And then there are the arias -- the monologues of remembered losses and thwarted ambitions that build in Wagnerian crescendos, given reverberant life on Broadway by actors like James Earl Jones (in ''Fences'') and Delroy Lindo (in ''Joe Turner''). Some of these arias end in defeated dying falls; others in moments of epiphany. But in either case, there is triumph in the very music, in the sense of pain and chaos woven, however briefly, into an ecstatic symmetry. 
 Music here is always a way of remembering, a congenital, instinctive force that reaches back through the centuries to the first slave ships. It seems telling that in the last play of the cycle, a tale of capitalist pipe dreams set in the 1990's, the music often sounds fainter than before. The central character in ''Radio Golf'' is an urban redeveloper, which in the world of the Hill means he is an eraser of history. In other words, he has lost his song. Mr. Wilson sets him on the path to looking for it by the end. 
 Today, Broadway's marquee lights are scheduled to be dimmed at 8 p.m. in memory of Mr. Wilson. And last month, it was announced that the Virginia Theater will be renamed the August Wilson Theater. This suggests a kind of Ovidian metamorphosis -- playwright becomes playhouse -- that is appropriate to a dramatist whose work is so appreciative of mythic transformations. I prefer to think of the theater less as a memorial to Mr. Wilson, who is after all still very much alive through his work, than as a living reminder of the dynamic of memory that great theater turns into song.


GRAPHIC: Photos: August Wilson at the 2001 Broadway opening of ''King Hedley II'' at the Virginia Theater, soon to be the August Wilson Theater. (Photo by Associated Press)
THE WILSON CYCLE -- From left, from top: ''Ma Rainey's Black Bottom,'' ''Fences,'' ''Joe Turner's Come and Gone,'' ''The Piano Lesson,'' ''Two Trains Running,'' ''Seven Guitars,'' ''Jitney,'' ''King Hedley II,'' ''Gem of the Ocean,'' ''Radio Golf.'' (Photo by Carol Rosegg/Yale Repertory Theater)
(Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)
(Photo by Ron Scherl)
(Photo by Eric Dobbs/Theater Virginia)
(Photo by Richard Anderson/Baltimore's Center Stage)
(Photo by Jay Thompson/Yale Repertory Theater)
(Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)
(Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)
(Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)
(Photo by Chris Bennion/Huntington Theater Company)(pg. E1)
 Heather Alicia Simms and Charles S. Dutton in ''Ma Rainey's Black Bottom'' in 2003. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); OPERA (89%); WRITERS (89%); THEATER (88%); INTERVIEWS (77%); JAZZ & BLUES (75%); MUSIC (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (67%); CANCER (64%); LIVER DISEASE (50%) Theater; Biographical Information

PERSON: Ben Brantley; August Wilson

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2005



92 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health&Fitness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2726 words

HEADLINE: A New Measure of Well-Being From a Happy Little Kingdom

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
What is happiness? In the United States and in many other industrialized countries, it is often equated with money.
 Economists measure consumer confidence on the assumption that the resulting figure says something about progress and public welfare. The gross domestic product, or G.D.P., is routinely used as shorthand for the well-being of a nation.
But the small Himalayan kingdom of Bhutan has been trying out a different idea.
 In 1972, concerned about the problems afflicting other developing countries that focused only on economic growth, Bhutan's newly crowned leader, King Jigme Singye Wangchuck, decided to make his nation's priority not its G.D.P. but its G.N.H., or gross national happiness. 
 Bhutan, the king said, needed to ensure that prosperity was shared across society and that it was balanced against preserving cultural traditions, protecting the environment and maintaining a responsive government. The king, now 49, has been instituting policies aimed at accomplishing these goals.
 Now Bhutan's example, while still a work in progress, is serving as a catalyst for far broader discussions of national well-being. 
 Around the world, a growing number of economists, social scientists, corporate leaders and bureaucrats are trying to develop measurements that take into account not just the flow of money but also access to health care, free time with family, conservation of natural resources and other noneconomic factors.
 The goal, according to many involved in this effort, is in part to return to a richer definition of the word happiness, more like what the signers of the Declaration of Independence had in mind when they included ''the pursuit of happiness'' as an inalienable right equal to liberty and life itself. 
 The founding fathers, said John Ralston Saul, a Canadian political philosopher, defined happiness as a balance of individual and community interests. ''The Enlightenment theory of happiness was an expression of public good or the public welfare, of the contentment of the people,'' Mr. Saul said. And, he added, this could not be further from ''the 20th-century idea that you should smile because you're at Disneyland.''
 Mr. Saul was one of about 400 people from more than a dozen countries who gathered recently to consider new ways to define and assess prosperity.
 The meeting, held at St. Francis Xavier University in northern Nova Scotia, was a mix of soft ideals and hard-nosed number crunching. Many participants insisted that the focus on commerce and consumption that dominated the 20th century need not be the norm in the 21st century.
 Among the attendees were three dozen representatives from Bhutan -- teachers, monks, government officials and others -- who came to promote what the Switzerland-size country has learned about building a fulfilled, contented society.
 While household incomes in Bhutan remain among the world's lowest, life expectancy increased by 19 years from 1984 to 1998, jumping to 66 years. The country, which is preparing to shift to a constitution and an elected government, requires that at least 60 percent of its lands remain forested, welcomes a limited stream of wealthy tourists and exports hydropower to India.
 ''We have to think of human well-being in broader terms,'' said Lyonpo Jigmi Thinley, Bhutan's home minister and ex-prime minister. ''Material well-being is only one component. That doesn't ensure that you're at peace with your environment and in harmony with each other.''
 It is a concept grounded in Buddhist doctrine, and even a decade ago it might have been dismissed by most economists and international policy experts as naive idealism.
 Indeed, America's brief flirtation with a similar concept, encapsulated in E.F. Schumacher's 1973 bestseller ''Small Is Beautiful: Economics as if People Mattered,'' ended abruptly with the huge and continuing burst of consumer-driven economic growth that exploded first in industrialized countries and has been spreading in fast-growing developing countries like China. 
 Yet many experts say it was this very explosion of affluence that eventually led social scientists to realize that economic growth is not always synonymous with progress.
 In the early stages of a climb out of poverty, for a household or a country, incomes and contentment grow in lockstep. But various studies show that beyond certain thresholds, roughly as annual per capita income passes $10,000 or $20,000, happiness does not keep up. 
 And some countries, studies found, were happier than they should be. In the World Values Survey, a project under way since 1995, Ronald Inglehart, a political scientist at the University of Michigan, found that Latin American countries, for example, registered far more subjective happiness than their economic status would suggest. 
 In contrast, countries that had experienced communist rule were unhappier than noncommunist countries with similar household incomes -- even long after communism had collapsed.
 ''Some types of societies clearly do a much better job of enhancing their people's sense of happiness and well-being than other ones even apart from the somewhat obvious fact that it's better to be rich than to be poor,'' Dr. Inglehart said.
 Even more striking, beyond a certain threshold of wealth people appear to redefine happiness, studies suggest, focusing on their relative position in society instead of their material status.
 Nothing defines this shift better than a 1998 survey of 257 students, faculty and staff members at the Harvard School of Public Health. 
 In the study, the researchers, Sara J. Solnick and David Hemenway, gave the subjects a choice of earning $50,000 a year in a world where the average salary was $25,000 or $100,000 a year where the average was $200,000. 
 About 50 percent of the participants, the researchers found, chose the first option, preferring to be half as prosperous but richer than their neighbors. 
 Such findings have contributed to the new effort to broaden the way countries and individuals gauge the quality of life -- the subject of the Nova Scotia conference. 
 But researchers have been hard pressed to develop measuring techniques that can capture this broader concept of well-being.
 One approach is to study how individuals perceive the daily flow of their lives, having them keep diary-like charts reflecting how various activities, from paying bills to playing softball, make them feel. 
 A research team at Princeton is working with the Bureau of Labor Statistics to incorporate this kind of charting into its new ''time use'' survey, which began last year and is given to 4,000 Americans each month. 
 ''The idea is to start with life as we experience it and then try to understand what helps people feel fulfilled and create conditions that generate that,'' said Dr. Alan B. Krueger, a Princeton economist working on the survey. 
 For example, he said, subjecting students to more testing in order to make them more competitive may equip them to succeed in the American quest for ever more income. But that benefit would have to be balanced against the problems that come with the increased stress imposed by additional testing.
 ''We should not be hoping to construct a utopia,'' Professor Krueger said. ''What we should be talking about is piecemeal movement in the direction of things that make for a better life.''
 Another strategy is to track trends that can affect a community's well-being by mining existing statistics from censuses, surveys and government agencies that track health, the environment, the economy and other societal barometers. 
 The resulting scores can be charted in parallel to see how various indicators either complement or impede each other. 
 In March, Britain said it would begin developing such an ''index of well-being,'' taking into account not only income but mental illness, civility, access to parks and crime rates. 
 In June, British officials released their first effort along those lines, a summary of ''sustainable development indicators'' intended to be a snapshot of social and environmental indicators like crime, traffic, pollution and recycling levels. 
 ''What we do in one area of our lives can have an impact on many others, so joined-up thinking and action across central and local government is crucial,'' said Elliot Morley, Britain's environment minister.
 In Canada, Hans Messinger, the director of industry measures and analysis for Statistics Canada, has been working informally with about 20 other economists and social scientists to develop that country's first national index of well-being.
 Mr. Messinger is the person who, every month, takes the pulse of his country's economy, sifting streams of data about cash flow to generate the figure called gross domestic product. But for nearly a decade, he has been searching for a better way of measuring the quality of life. 
 ''A sound economy is not an end to itself, but should serve a purpose, to improve society,'' Mr. Messinger said.
 The new well-being index, Mr. Messinger said, will never replace the G.D.P. For one thing, economic activity, affected by weather, labor strikes and other factors, changes far more rapidly than other indicators of happiness. 
 But understanding what fosters well-being, he said, can help policy makers decide how to shape legislation or regulations. 
 Later this year, the Canadian group plans to release a first attempt at an index -- an assessment of community health, living standards and people's division of time among work, family, voluntarism and other activities. Over the next several years, the team plans to integrate those findings with measurements of education, environmental quality, ''community vitality'' and the responsiveness of government. Similar initiatives are under way in Australia and New Zealand.
 Ronald Colman, a political scientist and the research director for Canada's well-being index, said one challenge was to decide how much weight to give different indicators.
 For example, Dr. Colman said, the amount of time devoted to volunteer activities in Canada has dropped more than 12 percent in the last decade. 
 ''That's a real decline in community well-being, but that loss counts for nothing in our current measure of progress,'' he said.
 But shifts in volunteer activity also cannot be easily assessed against cash-based activities, he said. 
 ''Money has nothing to do with why volunteers do what they do,'' Dr. Colman said. ''So how, in a way that's transparent and methodologically decent, do you come up with composite numbers that are meaningful?''
 In the end, Canada's index could eventually take the form of a report card rather than a single G.D.P.-like number.
 In the United States there have been a few experiments, like the Princeton plan to add a happiness component to labor surveys. But the focus remains on economics. The Census Bureau, for instance, still concentrates on collecting information about people's financial circumstances and possessions, not their perceptions or feelings, said Kurt J. Bauman, a demographer there.
 But he added that there was growing interest in moving away from simply tracking indicators of poverty, for example, to looking more comprehensively at social conditions. 
 ''Measuring whether poverty is going up or down is different than measuring changes in the ability of a family to feed itself,'' he said. ''There definitely is a growing perception out there that if you focus too narrowly, you're missing a lot of the picture.''
 That shift was evident at the conference on Bhutan, organized by Dr. Colman, who is from Nova Scotia. Participants focused on an array of approaches to the happiness puzzle, from practical to radical.
 John de Graaf, a Seattle filmmaker and campaigner trying to cut the amount of time people devote to work, wore a T-shirt that said, ''Medieval peasants worked less than you do.'' 
 In an open discussion, Marc van Bogaert from Belgium described his path to happiness: ''I want to live in a world without money.'' 
 Al Chaddock, a painter from Nova Scotia, immediately offered a suggestion: ''Become an artist.''
 Other attendees insisted that old-fashioned capitalism could persist even with a shift to goals broader than just making money. 
 Ray C. Anderson, the founder of Interface Inc., an Atlanta-based carpet company with nearly $1 billion in annual sales, described his company's 11-year-old program to cut pollution and switch to renewable materials.
 Mr. Anderson said he was ''a radical industrialist, but as competitive as anyone you know and as profit-minded.'' 
 Some experts who attended the weeklong conference questioned whether national well-being could really be defined. Just the act of trying to quantify happiness could threaten it, said Frank Bracho, a Venezuelan economist and former ambassador to India. After all, he said, ''The most important things in life are not prone to measurement -- like love.''
 But Mr. Messinger argued that the weaknesses of the established model, dominated by economics, demanded the effort. 
 Other economists pointed out that happiness itself can be illusory. 
 ''Even in a very miserable condition you can be very happy if you are grateful for small mercies,'' said Siddiqur Osmani, a professor of applied economics from the University of Ulster in Ireland. ''If someone is starving and hungry and given two scraps of food a day, he can be very happy.''
 Bhutanese officials at the meeting described a variety of initiatives aimed at creating the conditions that are most likely to improve the quality of life in the most equitable way.
 Bhutan, which had no public education system in 1960, now has schools at all levels around the country and rotates teachers from urban to rural regions to be sure there is equal access to the best teachers, officials said. 
 Another goal, they said, is to sustain traditions while advancing. People entering hospitals with nonacute health problems can choose Western or traditional medicine. 
 The more that various effects of a policy are considered, and not simply the economic return, the more likely a country is to achieve a good balance, said Sangay Wangchuk, the head of Bhutan's national parks agency, citing agricultural policies as an example.
 Bhutan's effort, in part, is aimed at avoiding the pattern seen in the study at Harvard, in which relative wealth becomes more important than the quality of life.
 ''The goal of life should not be limited to production, consumption, more production and more consumption,'' said Thakur S. Powdyel, a senior official in the Bhutanese Ministry of Education. ''There is no necessary relationship between the level of possession and the level of well-being.''
 Mr. Saul, the Canadian political philosopher, said that Bhutan's shift in language from ''product'' to ''happiness'' was a profound move in and of itself. 
 Mechanisms for achieving and tracking happiness can be devised, he said, but only if the goal is articulated clearly from the start. 
 ''It's ideas which determine the directions in which civilizations go,'' Mr. Saul said. ''If you don't get your ideas right, it doesn't matter what policies you try to put in place.''
 Still, Bhutan's model may not work for larger countries. And even in Bhutan, not everyone is happy. Members of the country's delegation admitted their experiment was very much a work in progress, and they acknowledged that poverty and alcoholism remained serious problems. 
 The pressures of modernization are also increasing. Bhutan linked itself to the global cultural pipelines of television and the Internet in 1999, and there have been increasing reports in its nascent media of violence and disaffection, particularly among young people. 
 Some attendees, while welcoming Bhutan's goal, gently criticized the Bhutanese officials for dealing with a Nepali-speaking minority mainly by driving tens of thousands of them out of the country in recent decades, saying that was not a way to foster happiness.
 ''Bhutan is not a pure Shangri-La, so idyllic and away from all those flaws and foibles,'' conceded Karma Pedey, a Bhutanese educator dressed in a short dragon-covered jacket and a floor-length rainbow-striped traditional skirt.
 But, looking around a packed auditorium, she added: ''At same time, I'm very, very happy we have made a global impact.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Lyonpo Jigmi Thinley, in draped sweater, met with Bhutanese teachers. (Photo by Andrew C. Revkin/The New York Times)(pg. F6)Drawing (Drawing by Harry Campbell)(pg. F1)Chart: ''A Plateau of Happiness''A country's wealth may not always dictate the happiness of its people.As part of the World Values Survey project, inhabitants of different countries and territories were asked how happy or satisfied they were. Below is a sampling of happiness rankings, along with economic status.Graph tracks happiness scores (from 2000 poll) against G.N.P. per capita (1995) of many countries .Many countries, particularly those in Latin America, had higher marks for happiness than their economic situation would predict.*Poll results for these countries were from 1995.(Source by Ronald Inglehart, ''Human Beliefs and Values : A Cross-Cultural Sourcebook Based on the 1999-2002 Values Surveys'')While the median income in the U.S. is higher than it was 30 years ago, people are not reporting increased happiness, polls show.Graph tracks median household income from 1974-2003.Taken all together, how would you say things are these days -- would you say that you are very happy, pretty happy, or not too happy?Graph tracks responses to the aforementioned question from *1974-2002.*Poll question was not asked every year.Based on nationwide in-person surveys of adults conducted by the National Opinion Research Center at the University of Chicago.(Sources by U.S. Census Bureau
 National Opinion Research Center)(pg. F6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (68%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); XAVIER UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%) St Francis Xavier University (Nova Scotia)

PERSON: Andrew C Revkin; Jigme Singye (King) Wangchuk

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%) NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (68%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%) BHUTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SWITZERLAND (71%) Bhutan; Great Britain; Canada

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2005



93 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 6; Sports Desk; PRO FOOTBALL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Bollinger May Pay For Jets' Struggles

BYLINE: By KAREN CROUSE

DATELINE: HEMPSTEAD, N.Y., Oct. 3 

 BODY:
If Brooks Bollinger takes the hit for an offense that was awful in the Jets' 13-3 loss to the Baltimore Ravens, he will not be blindsided. 
 Coach Herman Edwards said Monday that ''the quarterback situation remains the same at this point,'' but that he would meet with his staff in the next 24 hours before deciding who would start Sunday when the Jets (1-3) play the Tampa Bay Buccaneers (4-0) at Giants Stadium.
 Edwards spoke of making changes to breathe life into his moribund offense, and as offensive lineman Pete Kendall pointed out, ''you don't change an offensive tackle or a center or a tight end and get a spark.'' 
 You change the quarterback. Vinny Testaverde, an 18-year veteran whom the Jets signed last week, knows that as well as anyone. Testaverde, 41, lost his starting job to Chad Pennington after the Jets started 1-3 in 2002; he was let go after the 2003 season. 
 Bollinger cannot match Testaverde's experience or arm strength, but Testaverde has not taken a competitive snap in nearly 10 months.
 ''The most important thing is the guy has won and the guy has played quarterback in this league'' Edwards said of Testaverde. 
 If the Jets turn to Testaverde, who led the team to within a victory of the Super Bowl in 1998, it will be the 21st time in the last 10 seasons that the team, because of injury or inertia, has changed starting quarterbacks. 
 ''I have to make sure that I'm making the right decision,'' Edwards said. 
 ''It's kind of critical once you make this decision that you stick with it. You know, you can't keep changing. You have to give the players something to hold on to.'' 
 If one start is all Bollinger gets, well, that's life in the N.F.L. for third-string quarterbacks, for whom a tenuous hold on security comes with the clipboard. 
 Bollinger, before the season started, admitted it was unsettling being a former collegiate standout caught between playing time and the unemployment line. 
 ''You are just kind of chasing, fighting against yourself, trying to get yourself better and not knowing if or when your time is going to come,'' Bollinger said in August. 
 After two-plus years of waiting patiently in the wings, his time came Sunday, when he made his first start in place of Pennington and the backup Jay Fiedler, both of whom are sidelined with shoulder injuries. 
 The longest drive Bollinger led in the first half covered 14 yards. Nine of the Jets' 11 possessions ended in punts. They got into the red zone once, transported there not by the arm of Bollinger but by the feet of linebacker Victor Hobson, who recovered a Ravens fumble and returned it 43 yards before being taken down inside the Baltimore 1-yard line. 
 Bollinger and Co. lost two yards on the next three plays and settled for a field goal. Bollinger was 14 of 28 passing for 149 yards. His longest completion was a 32-yard play to Justin McCareins on the Jets' final series. 
 ''The sad part is, we never got in a position to kick a field goal except for the fumble,'' Edwards said. ''We couldn't make a play,'' he added. ''You know, whether it was Brooks making a throw or whether it was blocking the right guy or whether it was making the catch, we couldn't feed off anything offensively to give us energy to get going.'' 
 A quarter of the way through the season, the Jets are averaging 11.8 points and 68 yards rushing a game, both third worst in the league, and have only one rushing touchdown. 
 ''It would have been a great story if Brooks had went out there and scored 21 points,'' Edwards said. ''That would have been great theater. But the reality of that is very difficult, as we know, in this league for any QB when defense is playing good. And the Ravens played well.'' 
 When Pennington replaced Testaverde at Jacksonville early in the fourth game of the 2002 season, he did not do anything foolish, but he did not do anything fantastic, either. 
 The Jets lost, 28-3, but Edwards, taking the longer view, started Pennington the next week against Kansas City, anyway. Pennington led the Jets to an 8-4 finish and the playoffs. 
 With neither the New England Patriots nor the Buffalo Bills performing up to their lofty preseason expectations, Edwards has reason to focus on the here and now. It is not being overly optimistic for the Jets to say that all is far from lost in the A.F.C. East. 
 ''We're in a situation where time is of the essence,'' Edwards said. ''So when you look at your offense, you can't keep saying, 'Well, we're going to keep getting better.' 
 ''You have to do something to get better.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS INJURIES (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (70%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (64%) Football; Coaches and Managers

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (94%); BALTIMORE RAVENS (84%); TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS (83%) New York Jets; Tampa Bay Buccaneers

PERSON: Karen Crouse; Herman Edwards; Brooks Bollinger; Vinny Testaverde

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2005



94 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: A Writer Not Fusty, If Addicted To Mystery

BYLINE: By DINITIA SMITH

 BODY:
When the Nobel-prize winning novelist Toni Morrison is drained after finishing a book, she once said, there is sometimes only one other author she can bear to read -- the British writer Ruth Rendell. Ms. Rendell, who also publishes under the pseudonym Barbara Vine, writes police procedurals (featuring the popular Chief Inspector Reginald Wexford) and psychological thrillers that have been compared to the work of Henry James.
 ''You marvel at the economy and this choice of words,'' Ms. Morrison said. ''How many ways can you describe the sky and the moon? After Sylvia Plath, what can you say?'' 
Ms. Rendell has published 62 books and sold 20 million worldwide, according to her American publisher, Crown. Still they are not best sellers here. ''She may suffer from the 'prodigious author syndrome,''' said Steve Ross, Crown's publisher. '''If she can crank them out that much, she can't be that good.''' 
 So to spur sales of ''13 Steps Down,'' her newest novel, inspired by the British serial killer John Christie who lived in Notting Hill, London, and was hanged in 1953, Crown has attempted to pique booksellers' curiosity by sending them readers copies without a title or author's name, just blurbs from writers like Joyce Carol Oates and Scott Turow. Crown also brought her to the United States to tour. 
 Last week Ms. Rendell, small and chic in an orange linen pantsuit and wearing a few delicate pieces of jewelry, was having coffee at the Carlyle Hotel. She is 75, but looks younger -- she works out prodigiously. ''I don't want to be a fusty old lady writer,'' she said in her slightly plummy English tones. 
 The main character in ''13 Steps'' is called Mix, who is obsessed with Christie. He is a bland figure, which makes him even scarier. 
 One of Christie's victims was his wife, whose body he hid under the floorboards, Ms. Rendell said. The others were ''mostly prostitutes,'' she said. ''He would lure them by pretending to give abortions.'' 
 ''He had sex with them as they were dying,'' she added. 
 Ms. Rendell's books depend on precision of detail. For her research she bought the pathologist's report on Christie. ''It cost me $:100,'' she said.
 After Ms. Rendell creates her main character, she finds him a job. ''Always the most difficult thing for me,'' she noted. ''I haven't worked for a long time.'' Mix repairs exercise equipment. ''I have plenty of that.'' 
 How does Ms. Rendell get inside someone like Mix? Well, she has read all of Freud, for one thing. ''I have read everything,'' including all of Proust, said Ms. Rendell, who never attended university. ''Reading taught me how to write.''
 That Proust should be invoked by a mystery writer might seem odd. But Joyce Carol Oates, who also writes mysteries, under the names Lauren Kelly and Rosamond Smith, sees the mystery as a literary form, like the sonnet. ''It gives you a certain liberty, working within a structure,'' she said. It distills language and emotion. 
 Ms. Oates, like Ms. Morrison, is an admirer of Ms. Rendell's, for her ''literary strategies, of flashbacks and layering.'' 
 Ms. Rendell's central characters are frequently in a state of intense anxiety and sexual dysfunction, and the books often have complex structures. ''The House of Stairs'' was patterned after James's ''Wings of the Dove.'' ''No Night Is Too Long,'' about a man in love with twins, a man and a woman, is written in the form of ''Rashomon.'' In ''The Keys to the Street'' she used the winding paths of Regent Park as a matrix for the characters' interrelationships.
 Her books are also known for geographical exactitude. Ms. Rendell walks constantly. ''I never write about a place I don't know,'' she said, except in the Wexford books, which are set in an imaginary town, Kingsmarkham, Sussex. But so exact are Ms. Rendell's descriptions that a reader once drew a map of Kingsmarkham and sent it to her. ''I use his map now,'' she said, to remind her of locations. 
 Ms. Rendell was born in London, an only child of teachers. After high school she worked as a journalist for The Chigwell Times in Essex. She married Donald Rendell, also a journalist. After their son, Simon, was born she began writing novels.
 ''I didn't bother to submit them,'' she said. ''I thought they weren't good enough.'' Her husband was at The Daily Mail and showed one to the literary editor who suggested she send her work to a publisher. ''From Doon With Death,'' her first Wexford book, was published by Hutchinson in 1964. 
 During the 1970's Ms. Rendell separated from her husband for five years. They divorced and remarried in 1977. He died in 1999. 
 Many of her books deal with social concerns: domestic abuse in ''Harm Done,'' the environment in ''Road Rage,'' gender conflict in ''A Sleeping Life,'' feminism in ''An Unkindness of Ravens.'' She raises money for the Labor Party and is involved in legislation against female genital mutilation and for gay rights.
 In 1997 Ms. Rendell became Baroness Rendell of Babergh. She writes in the mornings, then attends the House of Lords when it is session. She shows her work to only one person before sending it to her publisher, she said, a fellow Peer whom she will not name. ''He's terribly good at checking,'' she said. ''If I do have errors, he will find it before publication.'' 
 Her average is three books every two years, Ms. Rendell said, and she never makes an outline. ''If I do, the whole thing falls apart. It fails. The illusion is in my head.'' 
 Ms. Rendell rarely gets a bad review. (Although this year a critic in The Daily Telegraph wrote of her book ''The Minotaur,'' ''The vine is withered, its good years long gone.'') ''I hate them,'' she said, of bad reviews.
 She gave a small sigh. ''Everything is difficult,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ruth Rendell, author of psychological thrillers and police novels. (Photo by Michael Falco for The New York Times)(pg. E1)
Ruth Rendell signs books in a Greenwich Village bookstore.
 The Partners & Crime bookstore displays Ruth Rendell's latest crime novel, ''13 Steps Down,'' with invitation to meet the author. (Photographs by Michael Falco for The New York Times)(pg. E6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (91%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (78%); AUCTIONS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); BOOKSTORES (73%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (63%) Books and Literature; Advertising and Marketing

ORGANIZATION: Crown Publishers

PERSON: Ruth Rendell; Dinitia Smith

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2005



95 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: Kitchen Ruckus: A Chef's Memoir

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
A YOUNG man who grew up cooking in his grandfather's diner in Queens, Doug Psaltis has experienced an auspicious ascent in the culinary world. 
 Without formal training he found his way to cooking at some of the best restaurants in New York by the time he was 23. Before Mr. Psaltis was 30, the famed chef Alain Ducasse had chosen him to run his second restaurant in Manhattan. Since leaving that restaurant, Mix in New York, Mr. Psaltis was taken on by Geoffrey Zakarian, who added to his good fortune by giving him the kitchen of Country, one of the more highly anticipated restaurants scheduled to open this year. And in the midst of all that, Mr. Psaltis was called to the writer's life, turning out his memoir, ''The Seasoning of a Chef,'' with his twin brother, Michael Psaltis, as co-author.
What might have been a glowing moment for him, though, has been darkened by the reaction to the book, a factually selective account of his rise that has infuriated many colleagues, who see it as an imperious swipe at those generous enough to have employed him. 
 Thomas Keller is perhaps the most respected American chef, lauded for his fastidious preparation and creativity. But Mr. Psaltis writes that in his stint last year at the French Laundry, Mr. Keller's Napa Valley restaurant, he found cooks who were uninspired drones. And while Mr. Keller is famous for his meticulousness, Mr. Psaltis wrote that cooks did not clean as they went along and the refrigerated storage area was ''a complete mess.'' 
 Of Dan Barber, the highly regarded chef and owner of Blue Hill, Mr. Psaltis has few kind words. In a passage in which he is clearly referring to Mr. Barber and Blue Hill but does not name the chef or restaurant, Mr. Psaltis describes Mr. Barber as a talentless borrower of recipes who had little to teach him. 
 But a former chef at Blue Hill said that Mr. Psaltis was asked to leave -- which Mr. Psaltis does not say in the book -- and that he exaggerated his importance at the restaurant. And only after publication did Mr. Psaltis mention an incident at French Laundry that helped lead to his departure.
 The reaction to the book has been so heated that two chefs whose praises for the book appear on its back cover have distanced themselves from their own remarks, something almost unheard of in publishing. 
 What has irritated some chefs the most is that Mr. Psaltis has taken to criticizing his betters, even though he has never successfully run a restaurant himself. In some sense, the book has exposed a supportive, fraternal side to the competitive world of chefs at the upper echelons of the restaurant industry. 
 On the back cover, Jacques Pepin calls the book a ''well-written tale of many kitchens by a committed, dedicated young chef.'' But in a phone conversation last week he said he had read only the first chapter when he wrote his endorsement. 
 ''I regret having sent it,'' Mr. Pepin said from his home in Connecticut. ''I'm irate. For a young chef to have the pretension to attack Mr. Keller -- I've never seen such a thing.''
 Mario Batali called the book ''honest and matter-of-fact'' in his back-cover blurb. In an e-mail last week he said he had composed his comments without finishing the 294-page book, adding, ''I know that Thomas Keller's kitchens are spotless and that Dan Barber does not rip off recipes.'' 
 Mr. Psaltis, though, says he believes that he has been misunderstood. ''These are the things I saw and what I experienced,'' he said last week. Of the French Laundry, he said: ''The kitchen was extremely clean. People are blowing things out of proportion. I was comparing it to the best restaurants in the world.'' In the passage about Blue Hill, Mr. Psaltis describes Mr. Barber as someone ''whose experience consisted of little more than a few stages'' -- unpaid stints in restaurant kitchens -- ''and running a small catering company.'' By the time Mr. Barber opened Blue Hill, he had worked at Joe's in Los Angeles, and at seven restaurants in France, including Michel Rostang in Paris. He had also been chef at La Cigale, a well-received restaurant on the lower East Side in the late 1990's. 
 Mr. Psaltis writes that he was hired to work as a co-chef at Blue Hill with Mr. Barber and Alex Urena as the restaurant was about to make its debut. But Mr. Urena, whom Mr. Psaltis thanks in the book's acknowledgments, said in a phone conversation last week that Mr. Psaltis was hired two weeks after the restaurant opened five years ago.
 ''He was helping us as a line cook,'' Mr. Urena said. ''We didn't want him to get the idea that he was going to be a sous-chef.'' 
 Mr. Urena, who went on to become the chef at Suba and is opening a new restaurant called Urena, also said that Mr. Barber had let Mr. Psaltis go. (Mr. Barber would not comment on Mr. Psaltis's tenure, and Mr. Psaltis maintained last week that his departure was of his choosing.)
 Mr. Psaltis's assertions and job history became the subject of discussion a few weeks ago on the message boards at eGullet (egullet.com), a Web site devoted to epicurean life, which had been running excerpts from the young chef's book. 
 On Sept. 19, a member wrote in suggesting that Mr. Psaltis skipped over an important episode during his tenure at French Laundry, after he left Mix, one that might taint his account. After an innuendo-filled online conversation, Mr. Psaltis posted a response in which he said he had been frustrated with the restaurant and was certain ''that others were frustrated with me.'' He wrote that one night, during a dispute, he slapped another employee's hand. ''It was stupid of me to allow myself to be baited into crossing that line,'' Mr. Psaltis continued. 
 (When asked by phone about the circumstances under which Mr. Psaltis left the French Laundry, neither he or Mr. Keller would comment, Mr. Keller citing a confidentiality agreement he keeps with his employees.)
 Those who worked with Mr. Psaltis at Mix said his anger was an issue there as well. 
 ''All of us have tempers but he was very verbal with the front of the house,'' said Damon Wise, referring to interactions with managers and wait staff. Mr. Wise, who is the chef de cuisine at Craft and a friend of Mr. Psaltis, spent nine weeks working with him at Mix.
 Melissa Trumbull, a general manager at Mix whom Mr. Psaltis criticized in the book, said, ''Doug is a tremendous cook.'' But, she said, ''People were terrified of him.''
 ''He would scream at you in your face with no regard for who was standing next to you,'' said Ms. Trumbull, who still works for the co-owner of Mix, Jeffrey Chodorow. ''There was nothing politically correct about him. I spent my life in New York restaurants as a manager and I was flabbergasted.''
 Mr. Psaltis acknowledges that he can be eruptible. 
 ''I think I get very emotional and very excited, and I'm Greek,'' he said last week. ''Every day I learn to speak, to talk, to walk better. Unfortunately I learn by my mistakes.''
 Mix, a joint venture of Mr. Ducasse and Mr. Chodorow, one of the biggest restaurateurs in the country, closed two months ago. In his book, Mr. Psaltis blamed the economic focus of Mr. Chodorow and his managers for his problems at the restaurant. Mr. Psaltis describes management's insistence on paying line cooks by the hour as ''absurd.'' He fails to mention that hourly wage rates for restaurant workers are mandated by New York state law.
 ''There are three sides to every story -- four sides, five sides,'' Mr. Chodorow said. ''Doug kept talking about serving food at more modest prices. Well then, you can't buy your ingredients the way Alain Ducasse buys ingredients. One guy who spends all day turning carrots, you can'thave that. You know how you charge less money in a restaurant? You make things less expensively.'' 
 The controversy seems to have held little sway with Mr. Psaltis's new employer, Mr. Zakarian, the owner of Country. 
 ''If I were grading by temper for the front of the house or the back, I'd have no one on my staff,'' Mr. Zakarian said. 
 ''People get hired and fired all the time,'' he added. ''There are lots of skeletons in this industry, and sometimes personalities clash.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: STIRRING THE POT -- Doug Psaltis at the door of Mix in New York, now closed. His book has angered fellow chefs. (Photo by Lars Klove for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
DISPUTED TENURE -- Dan Barber, shown at one of his restaurants, Blue Hill at Stone Barns, is criticized in ''The Seasoning of a Chef.'' (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)
 FORMER BOSS -- Thomas Keller hired Doug Psaltis as a cook at the French Laundry. (Photo by Richard Drew/Associated Press)(pg. F7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (74%); CELEBRITIES (69%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (68%); REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSING (52%) Restaurants; Books and Literature

ORGANIZATION: French Laundry (California Restaurant); Blue Hill (NYC Restaurant)

PERSON: Ginia Bellafante; Douglas Psaltis; Michael Psaltis; Thomas Keller; Dan Barber

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2005



96 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Square Feet; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: Eminent Domain Revisited: A Minnesota Case

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

DATELINE: RICHFIELD, Minn. 

 BODY:
Few recent Supreme Court opinions have aroused as much public outrage as Kelo v. City of New London, Conn., the June ruling that reaffirmed the use of eminent domain to promote economic development.
 Critics on both the left and the right politically have said that the Kelo decision potentially endangers every home and business. Bills to limit condemnation powers have been introduced in 31 states, according to the Institute for Justice, a property rights group.
 Had such a statute been in place in 2000 in Minnesota, however, a single auto dealer might have been able to block Best Buy, the fast-growing national electronics retailer, from building a $160 million corporate headquarters in Richfield, a suburb of 34,000 people that borders Minneapolis. The 1.6-million-square-foot campus, made up of four buildings shaped like ships, was completed in 2003 and currently houses 4,500 employees. City officials say it has given a big boost to an aging community that had been steadily losing population since the 1970's. 
 Though there was loud opposition to the project from employees of the holdout property owner, Walser Auto Sales, and others who feared its effect on traffic, much of the community supported it. After a campaign in which redevelopment was a central issue, the mayor, Martin Kirsch, was re-elected in 2002 by a wide margin. 
 In addition, the owners of the other 82 homes and businesses on the site sold their property without a fight, for what several said was a fair price that included relocation costs. ''The homeowners weren't exactly on our side,'' said Bradley J. Gunn, the Walsers' lawyer. 
 With local government officials throughout the nation struggling to defend themselves against the storm of criticism unleashed by the Kelo decision, the International Economic Development Council, a professional group based in Washington, cites the Best Buy headquarters to illustrate why eminent domain is sometimes a crucial tool in combating urban decay and sprawl.
 Some of the displaced homeowners, including Michael and Cindy Triggs, who said they received $24,000 above their house's market value, agreed that the redevelopment was in the best interests of Richfield. They said it also benefited the metropolitan area by moving thousands of employees from scattered suburban offices to a more central location within reach of bus transportation. ''It would have been a lot easier for Best Buy to deal with one farmer in Lakeville,'' said Mr. Triggs, referring to a more distant suburb. 
 To property rights advocates, though, the Best Buy case is a troubling example of municipal overreaching. Mr. Gunn said the courts merely took the city's word that the neighborhood was blighted. ''In too many of these cases, the courts seem to believe they must defer to the very agency whose conduct is at issue,'' he said. 
 In response to cases like this one, the Institute for Justice will support bills in the coming session ''to prohibit the taking of property for so-called economic development,'' said Lee McGrath, the executive director of the Minneapolis office.
 That effort will be opposed by the League of Minnesota Cities. Nevertheless, the league will seek to make the condemnation process more transparent and require ''that the government entity has to declare in writing whether the public benefit is more than the private benefit,'' he said.
 In Richfield, officials say they have occasionally resorted to using eminent domain only to help ensure their city's survival. Adjacent to Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport and surrounded by highways, the city is largely made up of small bungalows and ranch homes built in the 1950's. As the officials saw it, the housing supply was too homogeneous, and its shopping districts too dated. 
 In the 1990's, they began an aggressive redevelopment program as they sought to reverse the population decline. Since then, new or redeveloped shopping centers, prime office buildings, condominiums and apartment houses have sprung up in place of obsolete structures. Many of these projects were subsidized through tax increment financing, or TIF, with the city agreeing to forgo a certain amount of the increase in property tax generated by the new developments.
 In 1998, a local developer proposed turning a site near the juncture of two busy highways, 35W and I-494, into a mixed-use development, replacing many of the modest homes and businesses. Homeowners said that a majority of their neighbors were willing to be bought out. Over the years, the Walsers had expanded their car dealerships, causing friction in their once-tranquil neighborhood. (The Walsers declined to be interviewed.)
 Some residents had already bought new homes when the developer withdrew, so the subsequent Best Buy proposal came as a relief. ''This whole thing had dragged on for four years,'' said Cathy Bergin, who found herself with two mortgages. ''They had worn us down. We were happy to get out of there.''
 Only the Walsers, who had been offered $9.4 million for their two car dealerships, took the city to court, challenging the condemnation as well as the use of a TIF.
 Under Minnesota law, a city housing and redevelopment agency can condemn property only to provide housing or eliminate blight. But the definition of blight is broad enough to give public officials a lot of leeway. Testifying at the trial, Bruce Palmborg, the city's community development director, cited the proximity of the auto dealers and the houses as an example of blight. A consultant said the commercial spaces were obsolete. 
 The blight finding was upheld, but city officials were chastised by one appeals court for failing to prove that half the buildings were ''structurally substandard,'' a requirement for a TIF district. The case was settled when the Walsers agreed to move the dealerships to nearby Bloomington for an additional $9 million.
 Real estate brokers and residents say having a Fortune 100 company has been a boon to Richfield. Prices of single-family homes have risen 8 percent in the last year, with the median now at $224,000, according to George Bodnia, a residential broker for Century 21 Luger Realty. Best Buy has been ''substantial for the community,'' he said. 
 But critics like Mr. McGrath point out that it will be a long time before Richfield benefits from the higher property tax revenue generated by the complex. Annual revenues have risen to $3.2 million, from $700,000, but under the TIF agreement, Best Buy gets to keep the difference for 25 years. 
 Mr. Palmborg acknowledged that it was hard to put a dollar figure on what Best Buy has meant to Richfield. The company has instituted mentoring and other programs and it also helped pay for a badly needed bridge spanning I-494. At the same time, its employees have been encouraged to spend money within their self-contained campus, which has its own large health club, pharmacy, bank branch, billiard tables, dry cleaner, day care center and restaurant-like cafeteria.
 But he said the headquarters had proved its worth by permanently changing the town's image and prompting residents to invest in their homes. ''Best Buy is not going to be in a town that's perceived as a loser,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Below, Richfield, Minn., in 1999, before the construction of the Best Buy headquarters, and, at left, in 2003 after the $160 million complex was completed. (Photographs by Bordner Aerials)Map of Minnesota shows the location of the Best Buy site.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMINENT DOMAIN (92%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (90%); PROPERTY LAW (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); CITIES (89%); SUBURBS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ELECTRONICS (76%); TRENDS (76%); RELOCATIONS (74%); MAYORS (71%); NEW CAR DEALERS (70%); RETAILERS (70%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (50%) Eminent Domain; Electronics; Economic Conditions and Trends; Eminent Domain

ORGANIZATION: Best Buy Co ; Supreme Court (US); walser auto sales

PERSON: Terry Pristin

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (73%) MINNESOTA, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) richfield (minn)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2005



97 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: BP Details Its Damages From Hurricanes

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS and VIKAS BAJAJ; Heather Timmons reported from London for this article, and Vikas Bajaj from New York.

DATELINE: LONDON, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
BP became the first oil company to detail the economic costs of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita on Tuesday, saying the storms would strip $700 million from its third-quarter profit and cause it to miss year-end production goals.
 The warning came as Gale A. Norton, the United States interior secretary, said that oil and gas production in the Gulf of Mexico was just beginning to recover and that major repairs could take months to complete. More than a week after Rita hit the northern coast of Texas, the vast majority of the gulf's offshore energy production remained shut as of Tuesday morning, according to the government.
''We're beginning to see some incremental progress in the Gulf of Mexico oil and gas production,'' Ms. Norton said at a news conference in Washington. 
 Of the gulf's 4,000 platforms, the storms destroyed 109 offshore drilling platforms, including a major platform, and severely damaged 31, 4 of them major ones, Ms. Norton said. About 91 percent of oil production and 72 percent of natural gas production was out of service, and workers have yet to return to 42 percent of the gulf's manned platforms and 13 percent of rigs, according to the Minerals Management Service.
 The recovery has been slower after Rita than after Katrina, and after Hurricane Ivan last year, because there was greater damage to ports, natural gas processing plants and other operations that support gulf production, Ms. Norton said.
 BP said its oil production dropped by 145,000 barrels a day because of storm damage during the third quarter, a jump from estimates of less than 100,000 barrels a day. 
 Still, crude oil for November delivery fell $1.57 Tuesday, to $63.90 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Natural gas prices rose 20.7 cents, to $14.224 per thousand cubic feet. And gasoline futures dropped 4.65 cents, to $2.0157 a gallon.
 ''The issue is not the supply of crude oil,'' said Daniel Barcelo, an analyst at Banc of America Securities, who noted that between imports and government reserves there was no shortage of crude oil. ''Where there is an issue is natural gas in the U.S.''
 Gasoline, diesel and other fuel prices also remain high because fuel is still in short supply across much of the country. The hurricanes forced energy companies to shut down more than a quarter of the United States' refining capacity, and about 17.8 percent of that was still out of service on Tuesday, according to the Energy Department.
 Retail gasoline and diesel prices are up more than a $1 a gallon from October 2004. Nationally, regular unleaded gasoline averaged $2.941 a gallon and diesel prices hit $3.152 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA, the auto club.
 There were signs Tuesday that another oil producer, Royal Dutch Shell, experienced worse-than-expected damage in the Gulf of Mexico. The giant offshore Mars oil platform, which is run by Shell, may not be operational until the second half of 2006, the pipeline company Enbridge told investors during a presentation. 
 Shell said last month that the platform, which has a capacity of 250,000 barrels a day, would be operating by the end of this year. A Shell spokeswoman, Bernadette Cunnane, said that recovery teams were continuing their work on Shell's four platforms in the area, and that she could not provide any update to the company's earlier guidance. 
 More cuts in reported production are likely as oil companies report third-quarter earnings, analysts and investors say. ''The damage from Hurricane Rita has been significantly underreported,'' said Fadel Gheit, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Company. Oil companies have been trying to play down the storm's impact, because they do not want prices to rise any higher than their already unpopular levels, Mr. Gheit said. 
 BP executives, not surprisingly, disagreed with that theory. ''That's a little unfair,'' a BP spokesman, Toby Odone, said. BP disclosed its storm costs Tuesday, he said, to keep the public up to date. ''This is the first opportunity to speak about our particular situation, and we have tried to be as open and honest as possible,'' he said.
 Even with lost profits from storm damage and shutdowns, oil companies stand to make record earnings this year. Some politicians in Washington have proposed legislation to impose a windfall tax on oil companies' profits, increasing taxes by 50 percent when oil prices rise above $40 a barrel. 
 BP is expected to report $23.6 billion in net income this year, Goldman Sachs estimated Tuesday. Those earnings would be down $1.7 billion from Goldman's original estimate, after adjusting for the impact of storm damage.
 BP shares fell 2.7 percent, to close at 655.5 pence a share ($11.53) in London on Tuesday, the company's biggest one-day drop since December 2004. 
 While they cut estimates, analysts emphasized a positive outlook for BP. ''It is important to put our revised estimates in context,'' a Goldman analyst, Matthew Lanstone, wrote in a report. ''The macroenvironment is better than it has ever been.'' Even reduced estimates imply earnings growth of more than 50 percent for the year, he said. 
 BP attributed the expected decline of $700 million in third-quarter profits to lost oil and gas production in the area, reduced refinery production in Texas City, Tex., and reduced margins from gasoline sales, because of high wholesale prices. Year-end production will be reduced by 130,000 barrels a day, down from earlier estimates of 4.1 million to 4.2 million barrels a day.


GRAPHIC: Photo: BP says its oil production fell by 145,000 barrels a day after damage by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. One BP plant is in Texas City, Tex. (Photo by Dave Einsel/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); HURRICANES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (90%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (89%); DIESEL FUEL (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); WEATHER (89%); MINING OUTPUT (87%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (86%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (76%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); PLANT CAPACITY (69%); NATURAL GAS PROCESSING (67%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (54%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Gas (Fuel); Production; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Rita (Storm)

COMPANY: BP PLC (92%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (60%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (53%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE (55%) Bp Plc; Royal Dutch/shell Group; Interior Department; Enbridge Inc

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (92%); BP (LSE) (92%); RDSA (LSE) (60%); RDSA (AMS) (60%); RDS.B (NYSE) (60%); RDS.A (NYSE) (60%); BAC (NYSE) (53%); BAC (LSE) (53%); 8648 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

PERSON: Gale (Sec) Norton; Heather Timmons; Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Gulf of Mexico; Mississippi ; Texas; Louisiana

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2005



98 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: At the Very Top, a Surge in Income in '03

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
After falling for two years, the share of income going to the richest slice of Americans -- the top tenth of 1 percent -- grew significantly in 2003 while the share going to 99 percent of Americans fell, tax data released yesterday showed. 
 At the same time, the effective income tax rates paid by the top tenth of 1 percent fell sharply, declining at more than 10 times the rate reduction for middle-class taxpayers, the new report, by the Internal Revenue Service, showed.
Overall incomes rose by 2.7 percent in 2003, compared with the previous year, the I.R.S. said. A quarter of this increase went to the top tenth of 1 percent, the 129,000 taxpayers with reported incomes of $1.3 million or more, an analysis of the data showed. 
 Prof. Edward N. Wolff, a New York University economist who studies wealth, contended that the data could be tied to stock market gains in 2003 and a sharp rise in the pay of chief executives while most workers' pay was barely keeping up with inflation. 
 The top 10th of 1 percent paid almost 23.6 percent of their reported income in income taxes in 2003, down from just under 27 percent in 2002. That is a decline of 3.4 percentage points. For taxpayers in the bottom 80 percent, the effective tax rates fall by three-tenths of a percentage point or less.
 Only for those Americans in the top 1 percent, the nearly 1.3 million taxpayers who made at least $327,000, did incomes increase significantly more in 2003 than the rate of inflation. And this increase was concentrated within the top tenth of 1 percent. The income of that group grew by 9.5 percent in 2003 over the previous year while the rest of the top 1 percent had a gain of 3.7 percent. 
 For the bottom 99 percent of taxpayers, income rose by slightly less than 2 percent, which was below the inflation rate of 2.3 percent.
 The top 1 percent of taxpayers received almost 17.5 percent of all income and paid a third of all income taxes in 2003, the I.R.S. found. The top tenth of 1 percent received 7.57 percent of reported income and paid more than 15.3 percent of all income taxes.
 The share of all reported income reported by the top 1 percent of taxpayers increased by 0.57 percentage point, compared with 2002. Nearly all of this increase -- 0.47 percentage point -- went to the top tenth of 1 percent.
 The top tenth of 1 percent had more income in 2003 than the poorest third of taxpayers, a group with 330 times the number of people, analysis of the data showed. This is a sharp change from 1979, the earliest year in the I.R.S. report, when the total income of the poorest third of Americans exceeded that garnered by the top tenth of 1 percent by 2.5 to 1.
 The I.R.S. data tend to understate incomes for those at the very top because of different rules for reporting wages and capital gains, meaning the actual disparity was larger than the official data show.
 Other data show that among major world economies, the United States in recent years has had the third-greatest disparity in incomes between the very top and everyone else. Only Mexico and Russia, among major economies, have greater disparity. 
 Bruce Bartlett, a fiscally conservative Republican tax expert who is writing a book on the tax system, said that he found it remarkable that ''just 129,000 tax filers pay more than 15 percent of all federal income taxes.''
 ''Despite all the tax cuts'' and flatter tax rates, ''it's important to note that the tax code remains effectively progressive,'' he argued, meaning people with higher incomes pay higher tax rates.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Taking Home a Bigger Paycheck''More than a quarter of all the increases in income from 2002 to 2003 went to the top tenth of 1 percent. That is also the only group to show increases that were significantly more than the inflation rate of 2.3 percent, new data show.INCREASE FROM 2002 TO 20030 to 20% -- 0.7%20 to 40% -- 1.140 to 60% -- 1.560 to 80% -- 1.980 to 90% -- 2.590 to 95% -- 2.295 to 99% -- 2.299 to 99.9% -- 3.799.9 to 100 -- 9.5AS A PERCENTAGE OF ALL INCREASES0 to 20% -- 0.6%20 to 40% -- 2.840 to 60% -- 5.960 to 80% -- 14.280 to 90% -- 14.890 to 95% -- 9.495 to 99% -- 12.599 to 99.9% -- 13.699.9 to 100 -- 25.2(Source by Internal Revenue Service)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); INCOME TAX (90%); INFLATION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); EXECUTIVES (52%) United States Economy; Income; Taxation; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%) Internal Revenue Service

PERSON: David Cay Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2005



99 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 99 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New Jersey: Newark: Reports Predict Slow Economic Growth 

BYLINE: AP; Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
Even before hurricanes prompted major increases in the cost of energy, New Jersey's economy was slowed by higher gasoline prices and weakening job growth, according to separate reports issued yesterday by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Both predicted slow growth for the state's economy. The Federal Reserve report determined that key indicators in August pointed toward an annual growth rate of about 3 percent into the spring of 2006. Among the factors: higher first-time unemployment claims and the declining rate of new housing permits.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); TRENDS (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); GASOLINE PRICES (88%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (87%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (87%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (87%); BUILDING PERMITS (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (91%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System; Federal Deposit Insurance Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (91%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (91%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (72%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2005



100 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: In Indonesia, Democracy Isn't Enough

BYLINE: By Scott Atran. 
Scott Atran, a research scientist at the National Center for Scientific Research in Paris and the University of Michigan, is the author of ''In Gods We Trust: The Evolutionary Landscape of Religion.''

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
THE coordinated bombings of popular tourist areas in Bali, almost exactly three years after similar attacks there, signal that an outbreak of democracy in the Muslim world will not necessarily be enough to destroy Al Qaeda's viral movement or even to diminish its reach. 
 If anything, the entrenchment of democracy has weakened Indonesia's willingness to fight terrorism. The country's minority-led democratic government, whose very survival requires the support of Islamic parties that range from the militant to the mainstream, has spent the period between the two Bali attacks waffling in its response to terrorism for fear of alienating these Muslim parties and a largely anti-American populace. Such lack of resolve augurs ill for American efforts to promote democracy as an antidote to terrorism elsewhere in the Muslim world. 
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono insists that the terrorists responsible for Saturday's bombings will be hunted down. The previous president made similar protestations following the 2002 bombings. But only six weeks ago, an Indonesian court reduced the jail time of Abu Bakar Bashir -- allegedly the spiritual leader of Jemaah Islamiyah, Al Qaeda's main ally in the region -- and those of 18 others convicted for their roles in the 2002 bombings. Although Bashir was implicated in a Jemaah Islamiyah plot to overthrow Indonesia's previous government, and despite independent testimonies from senior Jemaah Islamiyah operatives in American and Indonesian custody that he approved the Bali bombings and other terrorist operations, he will soon walk free after just 26 months in custody.
 The day of the court's decision, I conducted an interview with Bashir at Jakarta's Cipinang prison. He was surrounded by acolytes, including the bombers who struck a Jakarta shopping mall and the Philippine ambassador's residence. The speaker of Indonesia's parliament, along with many Muslim leaders, including moderates, had previously visited Bashir to show solidarity with this victim of pressure and interference by the United States and Australia. But there can be no doubt that Bashir is a very extreme thinker who inspires deadly actions. 
 At 66, Bashir is lanky and bespectacled, with a strong voice, an easy laugh, and an air of vulpine gentility. His family, like Osama Bin Laden's, traces its roots to the Hadramawt region of Yemen. He explained that it was America and Australia, in collaboration with Israel, that actually planted the big bomb that killed so many people. Those Indonesians convicted of the earlier Bali bombings had in fact used only small bombs to warn that drugs and other Western excesses wouldn't be tolerated. ''Nevertheless, I call those who carried out such actions all mujahid,'' or holy warriors, Bashir said. Their attacks, he insisted, were ''self-defense'' against Western predations in the Muslim world. 
 Bashir expounded a radically new interpretation of Islam: ''No deed is nobler than jihad. None. If we commit to jihad, we can neglect other deeds.'' Nor is there any end in sight to what Bashir sees as an intractable ''clash of civilizations.'' According to the Koran, he explained, it is destiny for Muslims to fight Jews and Christians until the end of time: Westerners must be destroyed unless they accept Islamic government. He claimed he had recently sent a letter to President Bush pointing out that because of this destiny, the West's battle is pointless and unwinnable.
 Asked if he were the leader of Jemaah Islamiyah, Bashir smiled. ''That wasn't proven at my trial,'' he replied. 
 In fact, Indonesian intelligence has authenticated a 1998 letter to regional jihadi leaders, in which Bashir and another figure associated with Jemaah Islamiyah claimed to be acting on Bin Laden's behalf to advance a global jihad against Jews and Christians. Nonetheless, President Yudhoyono has said that he cannot submit legislation to parliament proscribing Jemaah Islamiyah because there is insufficient proof that the group exists. At the same time, he warns that more terrorist attacks may come. 
 That seems more than likely, to judge from the accounts I received from self-proclaimed mujahedin in Java and Sulawesi. They report that Jemaah Islamiyah has set up a suicide squad to conduct large actions against Western interests, over the objections of some group members who reprehend killing civilians.
 IT cannot possibly be in the Indonesian government's interest to continue to shelter an organization with such violent intentions. But the country's officials may have concluded that it is even riskier to support American policies. According to the latest survey conducted by the Pew Global Attitudes Project, Indonesian views of the United States, which were largely favorable before the invasion of Iraq, plummeted to 15 percent favorable right after. In Pew's June 2005 survey, 80 percent of Indonesians feared that the United States would attack their country. 
 Fortunately, the Pew figures also reveal positive trends that suggest another way forward for the United States and its allies. In three years, Indonesians' support for suicide bombing has declined from 27 percent to 15 percent, and confidence in Osama bin Laden is down from 58 percent to 35 percent. I
 If one American policy can be correlated with improvements in Indonesian attitudes toward the United States, it is aid for tsunami victims in Aceh. The Pew polls suggest that, largely because of the American role in tsunami rescue and relief, Indonesia is now one of the few nations where a majority believes that American actions sometimes consider other nations' interests. Since that time, support for combating terrorism has doubled to 50 percent, as Indonesians focus on the dangers they face rather than on distaste for American policies.
 These polls indicate that popular sentiment remains volatile, and that the anti-Americanism that helps drive jihadism is not necessarily permanent. But it would be a mistake to presume that the tide of history will simply carry countries like Indonesia toward democratization and away from militant Islam. Groups like Jemaah Islamiyah, which promote equal economic opportunity, as well as social and political advancement through educational achievement and personal piety, hold real appeal for citizens in this part of the world. To compete with that appeal, Muslim governments must address the often frustrated aspirations of their bulging youth populations.
 As for the West, in order to win its conflict with jihadism, its leaders must creatively endeavor to buck the tide of history rather than simply pretend to ride it. After all, that is the way our own democracy was born. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (95%); BOMBINGS (93%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); RELIGION (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (87%); COUPS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); POLITICS (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); LITIGATION (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (63%) Terrorism; Public Opinion; Politics and Government; Bombs and Explosives; Travel and Vacations; United States International Relations; Islam

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (93%); JEMAAH ISLAMIYA (84%) Jemaah Islamiyah (Terrorist Group); Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%); SUSILO BAMBANG YUDHOYONO (56%) Scott Atran

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (90%); HADHRAMAUT, YEMEN (79%) INDONESIA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); AUSTRALIA (92%); YEMEN (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%) Indonesia; Indonesia

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2005



101 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: To Prevent Mad Cow Disease, F.D.A. Proposes New Restrictions on Food for Animals

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

 BODY:
The Food and Drug Administration proposed new rules yesterday to prevent the spread of mad cow disease by banning brains and spinal cords from older cows in all animal feed.
 ''This reduces a very, very low risk to even lower,'' said Dr. Stephen F. Sundlof, the agency's director of veterinary medicine, in announcing the changes.
But the rules are not as strict as those the agency proposed last year and never adopted, and critics promptly denounced them as inadequate. 
 The new proposal still allows chickens, pigs and other noncattle animals to be fed material that some scientists consider potentially infectious, including the brains and spinal cords of young animals, and the eyes, tonsils, intestines and nerves of older ones. 
 Cows can potentially ingest that material because they can be given chicken feed and droppings swept up from the floors of poultry farms, scrapings from restaurant plates, and a calf milk replacement made from cow blood and fat. In the rules proposed in early 2004, poultry litter and plate waste would have been banned.
 The F.D.A. and the meat industry are ''totally committed to continuing the practice of feeding slaughterhouse waste to cows,'' said John Stauber, the author of ''Mad Cow U.S.A.'' (1997) and a critic of the meat industry who has called for a ban on feeding all animal protein to livestock.
 The major meat processors that also own rendering plants, Mr. Stauber said, want to keep exporting cheap protein or feeding it to their own animals and have lobbied hard to keep the right to do so.
 Michael K. Hansen at the Consumers Union, an expert on prion diseases, called the new proposed rules ''completely inadequate.'' Britain, he said, ''took many halfway steps in their efforts to eliminate mad cow disease and failed to stop it,'' and managed only to cut new cases to the low current levels by eliminating all mammal protein in the foodstuff of animals used for food.
 Dr. Sundlof, of the F.D.A., said removing the brains and spinal cords of older cattle would remove 90 percent of potentially infectious matter from all animal feed.
 Since June 2004, he said, the United States Department of Agriculture has tested 484,000 head of cattle for the disease, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, and only one animal born in the United States has tested positive. 
 His agency, he said, also considered the cost to industry. Getting rid of just brains and spines from older cattle, he said, would create only 64 million pounds of waste that renderers would have to burn or bury, and would cost only about $14 million.
 Getting rid of the vertebrae, spines, spinal nerves, eyes, intestines and other potentially infectious parts of all cattle -- including the meat that nerves remain attached to -- would create more than two billion pounds of waste, which he said would be an environmental problem and a big expense for the industry.
 Tom Cook, president of the National Renderers Association, said he was disappointed by the F.D.A. proposal to ban brain or spinal cord from animals not seen by meat inspectors. 
 Renderers typically pick up dead or dying animals from farms for about $25 a head, he explained, strip off the hide and cook all the rest down into meal and fat to be sold as animal food or even for paint or linoleum.
 A slaughterhouse can split a fresh carcass and vacuum out the soft brain and spinal cord, he said, but renderers pick up animals that are bloated or in rigor mortis. The extra costs of removing organs ''may take away the economic incentive,'' he said, ''and carcasses will be disposed of illegally.''
 In 1997, the F.D.A. banned feeding ruminants like cattle and sheep to other cattle and sheep, with a few exceptions like calf ''milk replacement'' made from cow blood.
 But the ban is widely acknowledged to be imperfect. Some farmers deliberately or accidentally give their cows ruminant feed. Equipment used by rendering plants processes both ruminant and nonruminant feed, which can mix.
 The rules proposed yesterday, Dr. Sundlof said, will not be adopted until sometime next year, after a comment period ends on Dec. 19. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (94%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (91%); ANIMAL FOODS (91%); LIVESTOCK FEED (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (90%); POULTRY PROCESSING (90%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (90%); ANIMALS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (90%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (90%); POULTRY (90%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (89%); VETERINARY DRUGS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); CREUTZFELDT JAKOB DISEASE (78%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (75%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (75%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (73%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (73%); DEREGULATION (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); LOBBYING (69%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (63%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (58%) Food Contamination and Poisoning; Consumer Protection; Mad Cow Disease (Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy); Meat; Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%) Food and Drug Administration

PERSON: Stephen (Dr) Sundlof; Donald G Jr Mcneil

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2005



102 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: CONGRESS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Gulf Coast Lawmakers in Spotlight as Aid Requests Pour In

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
Suddenly, just about everyone in the relatively obscure Gulf Coast Congressional delegation has jumped to the top of the A-list on Capitol Hill.
 The lawmakers are swamped with invitations to meet a variety of individuals and groups, as a parade of representatives for the regional hospitals, farms, fisheries, universities, school districts and credit unions implore them for help in obtaining shares of the billions of dollars in federal aid that Congress has set aside to rebuild after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.
 Just as quickly, lawmakers like Representative Gene Taylor, Democrat of Mississippi, are expressing amazement as doors fly open and give them newfound access to President Bush, Republican leaders of Congress and the national news media.
 ''It's kind of weird that it takes something like this to have such an opportunity to speak to so many people who can make a difference,'' said Mr. Taylor, whose home in Bay St. Louis was lost to Hurricane Katrina. 
 The Congress members and senators from the region, a mix of untested newcomers, journeymen and influential veterans, have had their entire political focus shift with single-minded attention. On a given day, influential lobbyists knock at their doors, hoping to persuade them to seize on the devastation and the government's seemingly open checkbook as an opportunity to jump-start long-stalled measures. 
 At the same time, the lawmakers are patrolling the hallways for alliances to help pursue billions of dollars in aid for their constituents, who include the homeless from New Orleans, flooded farmers and universities like Tulane. 
 Representative Charlie Melancon, a Louisiana Democrat who is a former president of the American Sugar Cane League, is being pressed into service by sugar farmers, who, his office said, initially asked for $165million after Hurricane Katrina and now want more money after Hurricane Rita.
 Representative Bobby Jindal, a first-year Republican from New Orleans, is escorting Louisiana officials around Washington as they try to give testimonials about the dire financial needs. 
 The oil industry has turned to Representative Joe L. Barton, a Texas Republican who is chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, for legislation to ease requirements to build refineries. The efforts are shaping up as a significant test of the delegation's standing and abilities. As the region begins rebuilding, obtaining federal help falls largely on their shoulders, just as it did for the New York delegation after the Sept. 11 attacks.
 Many of the lawmakers say that the period holds enormous promise and peril and that they will ultimately be judged on their success in bringing aid to their districts.
 ''We have one chance to get this right,'' said Representative Charles Boustany Jr., Republican of Louisiana, who has had several bills approved in the House, including one that provides federal grants to assist displaced residents who are seeking jobs.
 In the case of Louisiana, members of its Congressional delegation have spent days meeting residents, local officials and business leaders to identify needs. The lawmakers have also spent time mapping out talking points and legislative strategies.
 They have come up with a list of needs that would cost $250billion, far exceeding some officials' initial $200billion estimate. That is money that would come on top of the more than $60billion that Congress has already approved for the recovery, officials say. 
 The two senators, Mary L. Landrieu, a Democrat, and David Vitter, a Republican, are shopping the list around on Capitol Hill, with the support of the state's House delegation.
 The money would pay for a wide array of projects, including $14billion to restore coastal wetlands and $20billion to repair levees. 
 It is also meant to address some $2billion in damage in major sectors of the economy, the forestry, sugar cane, cotton, rice, dairy, citrus, turtle, alligator and seafood industries. 
 Other items on the list include $4,000 in tuition assistance for every displaced child; emergency pay for teachers who passed up opportunities to teach outside the state, financing to rebuild about 150 elementary and secondary schools, money to help universities and colleges pay faculty members, six months' mortgage relief for homeowners whose houses were damaged or destroyed, and an extension of unemployment benefits beyond the initial 26 weeks. 
 ''This is what we are hearing, and this is what we need,'' Ms. Landrieu said recently at a news conference on Capitol Hill. ''It is a staggering task that is before us.''
 Lobbyists for a host of industries have left very little to chance, visiting members of the region's Congressional delegation to make sure that their needs are not neglected.
 The tourism industry's biggest trade group, the Travel Business Roundtable, asked Congress for tax breaks on meals and travel costs to the gulf to encourage tourism. The group also is asking for tax breaks on housing for Gulf Coast businesses who house workers forced out of their housing. 
 That day, representatives of the Louisiana health-care industry arrived here to lobby the White House and Congress for at least $1.9billion to rebuild damaged hospitals. 
 And the insurance industry is watching closely as some lawmakers from the region are talking about forcing them to cover losses that industry officials say are not their responsibility. Insurers have long maintained that homeowners' policies cover wind and rain damage, but do not cover flood damage caused by hurricanes. But recently, at least two Democratic congressmen -- Mr. Taylor of Mississippi and Mr. Melancon of Louisiana -- argued that the flooding should be classified as wind-driven, saying that gulf water was swept inland by wind.
 ''I think it's absurd that insurance companies would avoid paying these claims,'' Mr. Melancon said in a recent interview.
 How much the lawmakers will be able to accomplish is an open question. There is some concern among them about whether Washington will fully meet the pleas for help.
 While Mr. Bush has promised to spend what is needed to rebuild, many of the region's lawmakers say they are well aware of how quickly priorities can shift in Washington, particularly when Congress faces a mounting federal deficit and a $5billion-a-month war in Iraq.
 ''We have a window of opportunity right now with national attention focused on the Gulf Coast,'' Mr. Jindal said. ''we don't expect that will last forever.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); LOBBYING (90%); HURRICANES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); SUGAR FARMING (77%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (77%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); BUDGETS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (72%); FISHERIES (72%); LAKES (72%); CREDIT UNIONS (71%); DISPLACED PERSONS (71%); GRANTS & GIFTS (67%); TERRORISM (66%); HOSPITALS (57%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Lobbying and Lobbyists; News and News Media; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Floods; Katrina (Storm)

PERSON: GENE TAYLOR (79%); CHARLIE MELANCON (58%); CHARLES W BOUSTANY JR (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); BOBBY JINDAL (54%) Mary (Sen) Landrieu; David (Sen) Vitter; Gene (Repr) Taylor; Raymond Hernandez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Louisiana; Mississippi ; United States; New Orleans (La); Mississippi River; Lake Pontchartrain (La); Gulf of Mexico

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2005



103 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; THE BLOOMBERG RECORD: Law Enforcement; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2529 words

HEADLINE: New York's Falling Crime Rate Is a Potent Weapon for the Mayor

BYLINE: By MIKE McINTIRE

 BODY:
New York City's police force has fewer officers, less money and more work than it did four years ago. Yet, by almost any measure, the city is safer today than it was before Michael R. Bloomberg became mayor in January 2002.
 If that sounds like grist for a campaign commercial, it is. Public safety has emerged as Mr. Bloomberg's not-so-secret weapon as he goes about pressing his case for re-election.
Mr. Bloomberg aggressively wields statistics showing that he not only continued the efforts of Rudolph W. Giuliani, who made crime-fighting a signature issue, but also did so while putting 1,000 officers on antiterrorism duty and avoiding the racial tensions that bedeviled his predecessor. Crime citywide has decreased 20 percent since 2001, outpacing the decline in the nation as a whole, according to F.B.I. data, and polls show widespread support for the mayor's public safety policies. 
 ''We are,'' Mr. Bloomberg said in a campaign speech in Brooklyn last week, ''the safest big city in America.''
 For New York mayors seeking re-election, crime can be a decisive issue. David N. Dinkins lost re-election to Mr. Giuliani as the city was struggling to cope with the murderous legacy of the crack epidemic. Mr. Giuliani, in turn, easily won a second term in 1997 on the basis of a sharp drop in crime. 
 But when Mr. Bloomberg took office, there were serious doubts about whether the lower crime rates of the Giuliani years could be maintained, much less improved upon. With New Yorkers still digging out from the rubble of ground zero, a Police Department consumed with preventing another attack and falling crime rates starting to level off, the new mayor seemed unlikely to run very far with the crime-buster's torch passed to him by Mr. Giuliani. What is more, Mr. Bloomberg, a billionaire businessman with no previous political experience, had to contend with a projected $6 billion budget deficit.
 By proving the skeptics wrong, Mr. Bloomberg, a Republican, largely defused a potential campaign issue this year for his Democratic opponent, Fernando Ferrer. Mr. Ferrer's comments on public safety issues have tended to be limited, and focused on mass transit, where he accuses the mayor of not doing enough to prevent a terrorist attack.
 In fact, it is the administration's recent attempt to improve subway security, by conducting random bag searches, that has highlighted what some say is a blot on Mr. Bloomberg's record: his contentious relationship with civil liberties advocates, who argue that the police have trampled on privacy and free speech when patrolling for terrorists and confronting political protesters.
 There have also been complaints of heavy-handedness by new ''safety agents'' assigned to city schools. And for all of the mayor's efforts to take credit for the decline in crime, there are criminologists who argue that shifting demographics and other societal factors, rather than policing strategies, are driving the crime rate down.
 But even those skeptics are impressed that the decrease has progressed faster in New York than in other cities. Andrew Karmen, a sociology professor at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice, who wrote a book on the city's declining homicide rate, said an independent commission of experts should search for answers to New York's success.
 ''This issue of why crime is down so much in New York City is really too important to leave to the politicians, who will always claim credit for it,'' Dr. Karmen said. ''What has happened here is really quite remarkable.''

New Priorities
 In 1993, the year before Mr. Giuliani took office, there were 1,946 murders in New York. By the time he left City Hall at the end of 2001, that number had dropped to 714.
 It was an incredible feat, and one that loomed especially large for Mr. Bloomberg as he began trying to move out from under Mr. Giuliani's long shadow and make his own mark on public safety.
 He began by choosing as his police commissioner Raymond W. Kelly, who had already held the job from 1992 to 1994 and later ran the United States Treasury Department's law enforcement agencies. Aides to Mr. Bloomberg said the mayor was motivated, in part, by the belief that Mr. Kelly's federal government experience could be useful in shaping the city's nascent counterterrorism strategy -- an all-consuming priority for the new administration.
 Mr. Kelly hired a former Central Intelligence Agency official to run the Police Department's own intelligence bureau, which began stationing detectives in hot spots around the world to collect information on potential threats to New York. 
 The Police Department was forced to divert substantial resources to antiterrorism, assigning about 1,000 officers, at a cost of $900,000 a week in overtime pay, to protect major landmarks and transportation hubs. By 2004, the annual cost of the counterterrorism effort was $164 million, but because of budget cuts the total department budget had slipped to $3.58 billion from $3.7 billion in 2001, and the number of officers to 37,000 from 40,000.
 Mr. Kelly said in an interview that the counterterrorism strategy worked, and he cited several examples of thwarted plots, including planned bombings of the Brooklyn Bridge and the Herald Square subway station. He also said the use of heavily armed ''Hercules teams,'' who show up randomly around the city in public displays of strength, had been a deterrent.
 ''How do you measure success?'' Mr. Kelly said, referring to the counterterrorism effort. ''If nothing happens, we're successful to that extent. But there are three cases, at least that we're aware of, where it seems that things we were doing here acted as a deterrent or we took them into custody.''
 But all the attention to terrorism has threatened to divert resources from the department's central crime-fighting mission. Summonses for quality-of-life infractions, such as those involving noise or trash, dropped to 444,000 in the fiscal that ended in 2002 from 526,000 in the previous year prompting concern by the administration that enforcement on such offenses was slipping.
 Conventional wisdom also dictated that after nearly a decade of declining crime rates, the city must soon encounter a core of crime resistant to law enforcement efforts. John Feinblatt, the mayor's criminal justice coordinator, said that reducing crime further would demand ''another level of work, another level of analysis and another level of creativity.''

Police Strategies
 Mr. Bloomberg, who made his fortune developing new methods of delivering large amounts of data to financial professionals, is nothing if not a technocrat. And his appreciation of computer analysis meshed well with the Police Department's preoccupation with statistics.
 The department under Mr. Giuliani created Compstat, which, as originally conceived, allowed precinct commanders to track and respond to major crime trends. The system was credited with helping drive down crime and was widely replicated in other cities.
 The Bloomberg administration decided not only to expand Compstat's data collection to include such things as misdemeanors, police overtime and abuse complaints, but also to use the information in different ways. No longer was the department simply mapping crime; now it was also analyzing the data to pinpoint the people responsible for a disproportionate share of offenses in specific neighborhoods, Mr. Feinblatt said.
 ''What resulted was ''Operation Spotlight,'' which looks for people with three or more arrests in the preceding 12 months and flags them once they re-enter the court system, often resulting in longer jail sentences. Mr. Kelly alsostarted ''Operation Impact'' to identify high-crime zones, sometimes as small as a few blocks or inside a specific school, and to flood those areas with police officers, who have made more than 20,000 arrests and issued 335,000 summonses in the zones.
 The resulting drop in crimes would seem to indicate that the extra police presence worked: Last year, major felonies declined 26 percent in the high-crime zones, compared with 5 percent citywide. Murders in New York continued to drop during Mr. Bloomberg's tenure, , totaling 572 in 2004. 
 Technology was brought to bear in other ways. Charles J. Hynes, the Brooklyn district attorney, recalled sitting down in 2001 with Mr. Bloomberg, then a candidate, and being asked what initiatives he would like to see. He told Mr. Bloomberg there should be a way to get tapes of 911 calls from domestic violence cases into the courtroom more quickly for judges to consider when setting bail for a suspect.
 ''The thought was, if we could digitalize the calls, and get them to the judges so they could hear the screams at the arraignment, it would be very effective,'' Mr. Hynes said. ''He thought it was a wonderful idea, and six months after he was elected it was in place.''
 The city also started using DNA evidence to obtain indictments against yet-to-be-identified rape suspects, before the statute of limitations on the crimes expire. Most recently, Mr. Kelly created a ''real-time crime center'' designed to quickly get information on potential suspects into the hands of detectives or officers responding to a crime scene.To be sure, not all public safety indicators have been moving in the right direction.
 Grand larceny cases are up, which the Police Department says is caused in part by a nationwide increase in identify theft. Although crime in the subways is down compared with four years ago, thefts of iPods and other portable music players contributed to a 5 percent increase in felonies in the transit system last year.
 In addition, while fire-related deaths have declined, average Fire Department response times to building fires have inched upward to 4 minutes 31 seconds this year, from 4 minutes 16 seconds in 2001. The firefighters' union has complained that budget cuts stretched the department's response capabilities too thin.

Community Relations
 Early one morning in January 2004, a police officer climbing a stairwell to a Brooklyn rooftop was startled when a door opened suddenly, and he shot and killed Timothy Stansbury, the unarmed black man who opened it. The death of Mr. Stansbury, 19, appeared to set the stage for a repeat of the racially charged collisions between New York's black and Hispanic communities and City Hall that marked the Giuliani era.
 Instead, something different happened.
 Within 12 hours, Mr. Kelly declared the shooting unjustified, and Mr. Bloomberg was on his way to visit the victim's family. Although the commissioner was criticized by the police union for too quickly casting judgment, he and the mayor won praise for helping to defuse a potentially divisive incident.
 Mr. Bloomberg's reaction to that and other tragedies earned him praise from unexpected sources, including the Rev. Al Sharpton, who has since endorsed Mr. Ferrer. A Quinnipiac poll released in June found that 53 percent of black voters approved of how the Police Department was doing its job; the same poll in May 2001 found that only 29 percent did.
 Even critics who fault aspects of the Bloomberg administration's civil rights record acknowledge that racial tensions have eased.
 ''When there are bad outcomes, when people die at the hands of the police, you have a different kind of response from this administration than from the Giuliani administration,'' said Donna Lieberman, executive director of the New York Civil Liberties Union.
 Still, there are those who remain unconvinced. City Councilman Charles Barron, a Democrat from Brooklyn who has yet to endorse a mayoral candidate in the general election, called Mr. Bloomberg ''a kinder, gentler Giuliani'' who he said has ignored the economic causes of crime in poor neighborhoods. He was not impressed by the mayor's attempts to reach out to families of victims of police mistakes.
 ''I give him absolutely no credit for doing what a mayor is supposed to do, which is to go to the funeral and apologize,'' Mr. Barron said. ''What's happened is that Giuliani was so horrible, what should be an ordinary response has come to be viewed as extraordinary.''
 Accusations of police misconduct filed with the Civilian Complaint Review Board have risen, although the percentage of those upheld after an investigation is about the same as it was in 2002. Some of the rise in complaints stems from the wave of arrests outside the Republican National Convention in 2004, which resulted in accusations that police mistreated protesters. Of 1,806 people arrested, only about 13 percent were convicted or pleaded guilty as of August.
 Ms. Lieberman said the police tactics, including random bag searches in train stations that began after the London subway bombings in July, were examples of ''vague concerns about terrorism being invoked to justify a massive and disastrous encroachment on our civil liberties.''
 ''The Police Department has adopted a suspicious attitude toward lawful political protest in the name of national security,'' she said. ''They treat demonstrations as if every one was a criminal encounter, rather than an expression of America at its best.''

Debate on Causes
 New York's declining crime rate has outpaced the rest of the country's. But because the nationwide drop in major crimes such as homicides is so widespread, some criminologists argue that no politician or police department can credibly lay claim to single-handedly beating back crime in their city.
 ''I've always been a little reluctant to give too much credit to the police,'' said Jeffrey A. Fagan, a professor of law and public health at Columbia University who has studied crime trends.
 Still, Dr. Fagan said that New York police ''are using a very strategic approach to crime control. It's problem-oriented policing, and they are pursuing it in a very intelligent way.''
 Academic experts cite several plausible contributors to the nationwide trend, including an aging population (young men are responsible for most crimes), the end of the crack cocaine epidemic, , an improving economy and rising rates of homeownership in urban areas. Mr. Kelly himself acknowledges that ''shifting drug use patterns'' probably is a factor.
 ''Crack hit New York City like a tidal wave around 1985,'' he said. ''I remember I was a precinct commander and we were stepping on vials -- we didn't even know what it was then -- but homicides went up 60 percent from 1985 to 1990.''
 But Mr. Kelly also points to the gains evident in the high-crime zones when officers flood into an area as proof that increased police presence, smartly deployed, works. He pointed to the homicide rate, which, while at its lowest citywide in more than 30 years, declined faster in the impact zones.
 For Dr. Karmen of John Jay, who wrote a book called, ''New York Murder Mystery: The True Story Behind the Crime Crash of the 1990's,'' the jury is still out on the question of who, or what, has made the city so much safer.
 ''I pretty much concluded that the mystery is unsolved,'' he said.


*Chicago is not included because it reports differently to the F.B.I.

(Sources by New York Police Department; Federal Bureau of Investigation)(pg. B5)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Under Michael R. Bloomberg, crime has dropped 20 percent. (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
As part of ''Operation Impact,'' a crime-fighting program, Officer Simone Safford helped a rookie, John Dziedzic, write a ticket for an illegally parked van. (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times)
 Heavily armed ''Hercules teams'' show up around the city in seemingly random displays of strength. City officials say the program has helped reduce the crime rate. (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. B5)Chart: '' Crime Decline Under Mayor Bloomberg''Under Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, the number of murders has crept downward, after big declines under Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani.Graph tracks crime under Giuliani (1993-2001) and Bloomberg (2002 through Sept. 4th)New York's murder rate ranks low on the list of the largest U.S. cities.ANNUAL MURDERS PER 100,000 POPULATION*Detroit: 41.5Dallas: 22.1Phoenix: 20.2San Antonio: 14.4Houston: 13.5Las Vegas: 13.3Philadelphia: 11.0Los Angeles: 7.8San Diego: 7.0New York: 4.9Overall, New York's crime index is the lowest among the largest cities.F.B.I. TOTAL CRIME INDEX PER 100,000 POPULATION*Dallas: 8,960Detroit: 7,904Phoenix: 7,402San Antonio: 7,347Houston: 7,195Las Vegas: 5,838Philadelphia: 5,471Los Angeles: 4,376San Diego: 4,103New York: 2,802Most other types of crime have also declined under Mayor Bloomberg.PERCENTAGE CHANGE FROM 2001 TO 2004Car Theft: -31.5Grand Larceny: +4.5Burglary: -18.0Felony Assault: -21.0Robbery: -13.4Rape: -9.7%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIME RATES (92%); POLICE FORCES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); TERRORISM (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (77%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); STATISTICS (75%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (72%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (72%); COUNTERTERRORISM (69%); COCAINE (50%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) Crime and Criminals; Surveys and Series; Election Issues; Elections; Mayors; Terrorism; Crime and Criminals; Police

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (94%); RUDY GIULIANI (90%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Fernando Ferrer; Mike Mcintire; Raymond W (Comr) Kelly; Rudolph W (Mayor) Giuliani

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2005



104 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Bush Says He'll Press Ahead With Broad Political Agenda

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
President Bush said Tuesday that he still had ''plenty'' of political capital and that he intended to spend it on battles over government spending, energy policy, Social Security and other issues that have so far proven difficult for him.
 Speaking at a news conference in the Rose Garden, against a backdrop of political problems that have pushed his approval ratings down to among the lowest of his presidency and exposed fissures within his party, Mr. Bush cast himself as undeterred and no less dedicated than ever to the policies that he has advocated all along.
At the same time, he made an unusually direct acknowledgment that he had failed so far to meet some of his goals. Asked about what he was doing to address racial problems and win the allegiance of black voters in particular, he said he was ''disappointed, frankly, in the vote I got in the African-American community.'' Mr. Bush won about 11 percent of the African-American vote last year, up slightly from 2000. 
 While vowing to keep up pressure for action, he suggested that he had misjudged the difficulty of pushing through his plan for overhauling Social Security this year, a goal that he had started his second term saying was his top domestic priority. 
 He said there ''seems to be a diminished appetite in the short term'' for confronting the retirement system's long-term financial imbalances despite his intensive efforts during the first half of the year to convince both parties that there is no choice but to take action. He urged Congress to show ''political courage'' in addressing the underlying problem of an aging population that has been promised benefits the government may not be able to afford, a problem he said was not going away.
 Asked about how the federal government had performed since its faltering initial response to Hurricane Katrina, Mr. Bush cited as a success the program to give each displaced household $2,000 to help tide members over, but said the government could ''probably do a better job of getting temporary housing to people.''
 Mr. Bush offered no new initiatives, and on issue after issue said the solution was in policies he had previously set out. To address high gasoline prices, he said, the nation should build more refineries, a step he has been urging for more than four years.
 To help pay the costs of helping people displaced by Hurricane Katrina and rebuilding the Gulf Coast, he cited budget-cutting proposals he first made at the beginning of the year, many of them ignored or rejected by Congress. 
 He called on Congress to reauthorize expiring provisions in the anti-terrorism law, known as the USA Patriot Act, saying that ''terrorist threats won't expire'' and that the government needs the powers the legislation provides to fight terrorism. Efforts to turn over more of the war-fighting burden in Iraq to Iraqi troops, he said, are showing ''positive progress.''
 His remarks highlighted what his supporters say is one of his greatest strengths and what his detractors say is one of his worst weaknesses: his determination not to change his fundamental course as events swirl around him. 
 Even as he has committed the federal government to the expensive task of post-hurricane relief and reconstruction, he has insisted that the government can still meet his deficit-reduction targets, and in his news conference he made clear that the key to doing so would be to reduce spending along the lines he wants rather than by raising taxes.
 ''I'm still a conservative, proudly so, proudly so,'' Mr. Bush said in response to a question about whether he could still claim that identity after presiding over a rapid increase in the size and cost of the government.
 Challenged on whether his advocacy of minority homeownership and economic advancement was enough to address festering racial problems, he said that ''economics has a lot to do with bridging divides'' and that ''there's something so powerfully healing about a society in which more and more people have ownership.''
 He added that improving education for all children was vital, as was allowing religion-based charity a greater role in addressing social ills. ''And obviously the tone matters from leadership,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); HURRICANE KATRINA (85%); HURRICANES (85%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); AGING TRENDS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US PATRIOT ACT (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); LAKES (74%); WEATHER (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); AGING (72%); DISPLACED PERSONS (67%); TROPICAL STORMS (67%); TERRORISM (61%); GASOLINE PRICES (60%); COUNTERTERRORISM (60%); BUDGET CUTS (50%) United States Politics and Government; Law and Legislation; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Social Security (US); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); United States Politics and Government; Floods; Terrorism; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) Louisiana; Mississippi ; New Orleans (La); Gulf of Mexico; Mississippi River; Lake Pontchartrain (La); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2005



105 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: Kuwaitis Quietly Breach a Taboo: Easing Hostility Toward Israel 

BYLINE: By HASSAN M. FATTAH

DATELINE: KUWAIT, Sept. 30 

 BODY:
Kuwaiti newspapers in recent days have floated the idea that the country could take steps to reduce hostility toward Israel as a means of helping the Palestinians, prompting a quiet debate about Kuwait's decades-old strategy of isolating Israel. 
 The discussion breaks long-held taboos and brushes at an emotionally explosive subject for Kuwaitis, who had long considered themselves among the standard-bearers for the Palestinian cause. But experts emphasize that it remains no more than a discussion at this point.
''After a long time, we have finally decided to leave the Palestinian cause to Palestinians, because it is they who are really concerned with this issue,'' Ahmed al-Jarallah, editor in chief of the English-language Arab Times, wrote in an editorial on Sept. 22. 
 In order to prove that Arabs are seeking peace, he contended, the Arab world must no longer use Palestinians as a tool of its policies. Referring to recent decisions by Bahrain, Qatar and Tunisia to ease their policies toward Israel, he said, ''We Arabs have also reached a unanimous agreement to make peace with Israel as our strategic choice, before conducting negotiations with that country.''
 A day later, the prominent Kuwaiti daily Al Seyassa, published by the same company as The Arab Times, published an op-ed column calling for lifting the country's longstanding trade embargo on Israel. ''The Israeli withdrawal and a positive Arab response at this particular time would provide a peaceful political process with major momentum that could lead to a historic reconciliation in the Middle East,'' wrote Yusuf Nasir al-Suwaydan, a Saudi, referring to Israel's recent withdrawal from Gaza. ''Normalizing ties with Israel is an important event, and its positive effect will permeate every aspect of the Arab political, economic, cultural and social life.''
 The mere talk of normalization, a quiet but growing discussion largely conducted among businessmen and academics, goes to the core of Kuwait's identity and history.
 ''This country was the cashier of the pan-Arab movement and of many Islamist movements,'' Saad Bin Tefla, a columnist and linguistics professor at Kuwait University, said in an interview, referring to Kuwait's prominent role in financing the Palestinian movement. ''There's a long history here of resistance to Israel.'' 
 But, he said, referring to the recent easing of embargoes on Israel by other Arab countries, ''The debate between some people now is this: If it's good for our allies, maybe it's good for us.''
 Pakistan, another Muslim country, has taken a very tentative step toward Israel since its pullout from Gaza and under prodding by the United States. Bahrain agreed to lift its trade sanctions on Israel as part of its recent signing of a free trade agreement with the United States. Qatar, which has long had trade relations with Israel, agreed to expand the relationship. 
 In August, the foreign ministers of Pakistan and Israel held a highly publicized meeting in Istanbul. At the United Nations summit meeting at the General Assembly in New York, President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan met with Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel, while the Israeli foreign minister, Silvan Shalom, held talks with his Qatari and Tunisian counterparts.
 But any reduction in hostility toward Israel by Kuwait, with its economic strength and Arab nationalist roots, would be especially symbolic. Such talk would have been considered heresy here just a few years ago.
 In the 1950's, Kuwait was the home in exile to Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, and to hundreds of thousands of other Palestinians, who helped build the country. In the 1960's and 1970's, Kuwait was a leading supporter of Arab nationalism and of Palestinian claims to a homeland. 
 The invasion of Kuwait by Saddam Hussein's army in 1990 cast a pall over relations between Kuwait and the Palestinians, who sided with Iraq. Thousands of Palestinians left Kuwait and were not allowed to return. But Kuwait said it remained committed to the Palestinian cause, and the country's religious and Arab nationalist politicians, who make up a majority of Parliament, continue to be flag bearers against efforts to normalize relations.
 ''This is not about Israel; it is about the holy sites in Palestine and the blood of Palestinians being shed every day,'' said Mansour al-Khuzam, deputy secretary of the new Islamist-dominated Ummah Party, which is officially banned because Kuwait does not allow political parties. ''I don't think any Islamic country could tolerate this. It can only be based on foreign pressure.''
 But the liberation of Kuwait in 1991 by American-led forces changed many Kuwaitis' view of the nature of the struggle with Israel. Most have abandoned advocating a military solution. Some now even credit Israel's decision not to retaliate against Iraqi missiles during the first Persian Gulf war as a benefit for Kuwait. Retaliation might have caused other Arab nations to support Iraq in that struggle, their thinking goes. 
 ''Despite what people say, we are not at war with Israel,'' Ahmed al-Sarraf, a prominent Kuwaiti banker and commentator, said in an interview this week. ''On the contrary, we owe Israel a lot.'' Had the Israelis retaliated for the Iraqi missiles, he insisted, ''it would have affected our cause significantly.''
 Supporters of engagement insist they are not seeking to abandon the Palestinian cause but in fact hoping to enhance it. 
 ''How can you exert any pressure on someone by not recognizing them?'' Mr. Sarraf said. ''It hasn't worked for the past 50 years, and it's time to change the thinking.''
 He added: ''But supposing instead that Israel becomes dependent on Kuwait for 30 percent of its oil? Then we have greater influence and say in these issues.''
 Reports have circulated that Kuwait will lift its embargo on Israel, but they remain unconfirmed. The Kuwaiti daily Al Qabas noted that Kuwait had not yet signed a free-trade agreement with the United States. Such an agreement would not permit a trade embargo on Israel. 
 But many Kuwaitis read more into the fact that senior members of the government have not denied the assertions about the possibility of lifting the embargo. 
 ''There's no point in denying the existence of Israel anymore, so there should be nothing wrong with normalizing relations,'' Mr. Sarraf said. ''The Palestinians themselves are speaking to Israel, so why shouldn't we?''
 Even if the government were to propose such a measure, however, the powerful but hostile National Assembly would put up a big fight.
 ''We cannot make relations with Israel,'' Muhammad al-Saqer, chairman of the National Assembly's foreign affairs committee, told the English-language Kuwait Times this week. ''If Arab countries want to do so, then Kuwait will be the last state to have relations with Israel, and I hope that this will never happen.''
 But the mere debate may in itself be a milestone, some commentators have said. ''I don't know if anything will come of this,'' said Nabil al-Fathil, a columnist with the daily Al Watan and a proponent of normalization. ''I just hope we will be freed from the old language and dialogue.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (86%); PUBLISHING (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); WRITERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); LINGUISTICS (69%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); POLITICS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (90%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (63%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (90%); PANASONIC (NSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (90%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KUWAIT (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); ISRAEL (94%); BAHRAIN (91%); QATAR (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2005



106 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: NEW ORLEANS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Announces Layoffs of City Workers

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
The mayor of this battered city said Tuesday that about half of its 6,000 public employees would be laid off because there was not enough money to meet the payroll.
 ''Today it's with great sadness that we announce that we were unable to hold on to some of our dedicated city workers,'' Mayor C. Ray Nagin said.
The layoffs -- emergency leave without pay -- will begin Oct. 8 and leave about 3,000 nonessential workers unemployed when completed in about two weeks. Final paychecks will be issued this month. 
 Workers in essential services like fire, police, emergency medical, and sewage and water services will not be affected, the mayor's communications director, Sally Forman, said.
 Employees in recreation, parks, economic development, housing, finance, technology and law, and other departments will bear the brunt. ''You have cuts across the board,'' Ms. Forman said.
 Mr. Nagin made the announcement at a news conference just one day after the governor of Louisiana, Kathleen Babineaux Blanco, met with the heads of parishes to assess how much money would be needed to meet payrolls in areas where the tax base has been devastated.
 Ms. Blanco said yesterday that she wanted Congress or President Bush to change the Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act regulations to allow funds to pay regular salaries and not just emergency-related overtime of public employees.
 Mr. Bush said at a news conference on Tuesday that Congress had important work to do responding to the destruction of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. 
 ''I've also made it clear we must do so in a fiscally responsible way,'' he said. ''Congress needs to pay for as much of the hurricane relief as possible by cutting spending. I'll work with members of Congress to identify offsets and to free up money for the reconstruction efforts.''
 In addition to the New Orleans layoffs, which Mr. Nagin said were an initial cut, the mayor said he was also asking the state to offer bonds to finance some of the city's debt. ''I'm hoping those two actions will give us flexibility,'' he said. 
 The mayor said the city had checked with federal financial sources, state sources, local banks and other financial institutions but was unable to maintain staffing at current levels. 
 He said that the city payroll was about $20 million a month and that the cuts would shave about $5 million to $8 million of that amount. ''We cannot afford to keep a full complement of city workers under our present financial conditions,'' he said.
 There had been no talk of cutting city jobs before the storms, Ms. Forman said.
 Just last week, Mr. Nagin had laid out plans to open most of New Orleans to residents, an effort that had been delayed by Hurricane Rita, by allowing people to return to all neighborhoods except the Lower Ninth Ward, which he said was still flooded.
 Mr. Nagin said Tuesday that about 50,000 people were on the west bank and about 30,000 on the east bank, and that the city could handle many more. Water tests were still being conducted and levees repaired.
 On Wednesday, almost all the city's areas will be open for residents to inspect their property, the mayor said, with some of the Ninth Ward still closed. People will be kept off the streets from 8 p.m. to 6 a.m.
 Many city employees, like other New Orleans residents, lost their homes and evacuated. Others stayed behind and resumed work, to some extent, in their former jobs, cleaning up and maintaining the sites. They were housed in cruise ships along the New Orleans Riverwalk.
 City employees said Tuesday that the announcement added to an air of uncertainty, aggravating already dire conditions of homelessness with looming unemployment.
 A city accountant, Melvin Harrison, 60, said he and other workers were last paid on Friday. ''We don't know what we are going to do,'' he said at the pier where the cruise ships are docked. ''It will be devastating to a lot of us who have to support families.''
 Abraham Jackson, a security guard in the city's parks, said he spent his time now helping in the cleanup. But he did not expect to return to his former job. ''We do not know if we will be employed today, tomorrow or the next day,'' Mr. Jackson said.
 A firefighter who asked not to be identified said, ''It's very unfortunate what happened, but I also understand the other side.''
 ''The city is bankrupt,'' the firefighter added, saying that there were now 6 or 7 firefighting bases in the city where once there had been more than 40.
 All city workers will receive paychecks on Oct. 14, and the departing nonessential members of the support staff of the Police and Fire Departments will get their final pay on Oct. 21. 
 Mr. Nagin said employees to be laid off would be given written notice, contacted through address- changes notices, federal databases and e-mail messages.
 Many are among the homeless spread out after Hurricane Katrina hit the city.
 ''It's tough,'' Mr. Nagin said. ''It's really tough.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor C. Ray Nagin said about half of New Orleans's 6,000 public workers would be laid off. (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); OVERTIME (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); WEATHER (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HURRICANES (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (87%); TROPICAL STORMS (86%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); LAKES (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); HURRICANE KATRINA (72%); DISASTER RELIEF (70%); GOVERNORS (52%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Floods; Government Employees; Law and Legislation; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Wages and Salaries; Overtime; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Katrina (Storm)

PERSON: KATHLEEN BLANCO (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); RICK PERRY (51%) C Ray (Mayor) Nagin; Kathleen Babineaux (Gov) Blanco; Christine Hauser; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Orleans (La); Louisiana; United States; United States; Gulf of Mexico; Mississippi River; Lake Pontchartrain (La)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2005



107 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Comments by Bush Suggest a Wider Field Of Candidates to Lead Federal Reserve
President Bush said that he had yet to receive a list of candidates to succeed Alan Greenspan as chairman of the Federal Reserve, cautiously hinting that he may want to look beyond those already under consideration at the White House. Mr. Bush's comments raised some doubts about the conventional wisdom in Washington and on Wall Street, which is that the race to succeed Mr. Greenspan has boiled down to three principal candidates. [Page C1.]

Warning on Vulnerability of Cellphone Networks
Malicious hackers could take down cellular networks in large cities by inundating their popular text-messaging services with the equivalent of spam, computer security researchers said in a report to be released today. [C1.]

Delphi Appears Poised for Bankruptcy Filing
Delphi, the auto parts supplier, is prepared to file for bankruptcy as early as this week. Whether Robert S. Miller, Delphi's chief executive for three months, actually goes through with it remains to be seen. Market Place. [C1.]

Lexmark Cuts Earnings Forecast in Half
Lexmark International signaled that it was losing the price war in inkjet printers when it said that its earnings for the third quarter would be half of what it had predicted. Investors quickly sold the stock, which closed down $17.44 at $43.50. Hewlett-Packard, Dell and other major printer makers began cutting prices this year on low-end inkjet printers. But Lexmark executives said that they were slow to react. [C7.]

Lawsuit Filed Over Hurricane Insurance Coverage
A Mississippi lawyer filed a lawsuit aimed at forcing insurance companies to pay for damage to tens of thousands of homes caused by surging water driven from the Gulf of Mexico by Hurricane Katrina a month ago. [C6.]

Five weeks after Hurricane Katrina, employees of Liberty Bank and Trust of New Orleans remain stuffed into a makeshift warren of offices in Baton Rouge, La., struggling with the new reality of running a bank where the customers are scattered and the money seems only to flow out. [C1.]

BP became the first oil company to detail the economic costs of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, saying the storms would strip $700 million from its third-quarter profits and cause it to miss year-end production goals. [C5.]

A Push for Drugs That Activate the Immune System
The pharmaceutical industry is making big investments in creating drugs meant to activate sentinels that essentially fool the body into thinking it has been infected without exposing it to real pathogens. The aim is to stimulate the immune system to fight cancer, hepatitis and other diseases. [C1.]

Stocks Fall on Corporate Profit Warnings
Stocks fell sharply as several companies warned of profit shortfalls and higher costs. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 94.37 points, to 10,441.11. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 12.23 points, to 1,214.47, and the Nasdaq dropped 16.07, to 2,139.36. [C11.]

Tax Data Show Rise in Income at the Top
After falling for two years, the share of income going to the richest slice of Americans -- the top tenth of 1 percent -- grew significantly in 2003 while the share going to 99 percent of Americans fell, tax data showed. [C4.]

Google and Sun Announce Technology Pact
Google and Sun Microsystems announced a broad but vague agreement to develop and distribute each other's technology in a bid to expand their markets and challenge Microsoft's dominance of computer desktops. [C7.]

A Minnesota Case Study on Eminent Domain
Few recent Supreme Court opinions have aroused as much public outrage as the June ruling that reaffirmed the use of eminent domain to promote economic development. Had such a law been in place in 2000 in Minnesota, however, a single auto dealer might have been able to block Best Buy, the fast-growing national electronics retailer, from building a $160 million corporate headquarters in Richfield, a suburb of 34,000 people that borders Minneapolis. Square Feet. [C9.]

New Rules Proposed to Prevent Mad Cow Disease
The government offered new rules to prevent the spread of mad cow disease by banning brains and spinal cords from older cows in animal feed. [A18.]

Tricky Time for a Brand With a British Image
The Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company, which now owns the distinctively British Altoids mints brand, recently announced plans to shutter the Altoid factory in Wales, and transfer production to Chattanooga, Tenn. For the skittish branding industry, such moves can be fraught with peril. Advertising. [C12.]

Brazil Nears Agreement Over AIDS Drug
Brazil said that it was close to completing an agreement with Abbott Laboratories that would almost halve the price it pays for Kaletra, a drug used to treat AIDS patients. [C7.]

More Than One Firm May Bid for Aegis Group
The Aegis Group, the London-based marketing said it had met with more than one potential bidder, raising the prospect of a two- or three-way bidding war, as well as the possibility of a breakup of the company. [C10.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks Lexmark International's daily closes since July.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (90%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); HURRICANES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); EXECUTIVES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PROFIT WARNINGS (76%); MALICIOUS SOFTWARE (75%); TEXT MESSAGING (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (75%); CANCER (74%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); INSURANCE (72%); PRINTER MFG (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); REAL ESTATE INSURANCE (69%); LITIGATION (69%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (69%); EMAIL MARKETING (69%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); HEPATITIS (62%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (60%); RESEARCH REPORTS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LEXMARK INTERNATIONAL INC (84%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%); LIBERTY BANK & TRUST OF OKLAHAOMA CITY (53%)

TICKER: LXK (NYSE) (84%); HPQ (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (84%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ALAN GREENSPAN (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (72%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2005



108 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: Bush Keeps Open Mind On Choice To Run Fed

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
President Bush said on Tuesday that he had yet to receive a list of candidates to succeed Alan Greenspan as chairman of the Federal Reserve, cautiously hinting that he might want to look beyond those already under consideration at the White House.
 With less than four months remaining before Mr. Greenspan is scheduled to retire at the end of January, Mr. Bush told reporters at a news conference in the Rose Garden that he wanted someone independent from politics.
 ''I, frankly, hadn't seen any, personally hadn't seen any names yet,'' Mr. Bush said. ''Part of the process is to surface some names internally. But also, part of the process is to reach outside the White House and solicit opinions.'' 
 Mr. Bush's comments raised some doubts about the conventional wisdom in Washington and on Wall Street, which is that the race to succeed Mr. Greenspan has boiled down to three principal candidates: Martin Feldstein of Harvard University; R. Glenn Hubbard, a former top adviser to Mr. Bush; and Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers.
 Mr. Bush knows all three of the most widely mentioned prospects, but Republican strategists say that none is a perfect fit.
 Time is short: the Senate will be busy with the confirmation hearings of Harriet E. Miers for associate justice of the Supreme Court, and is expected to adjourn for the year in early December. 
 Mr. Greenspan's term expires on Jan. 31, and he has signaled that he wants to step down on schedule. Although the Senate banking committee could begin hearings in January, Congress usually does not reconvene until the end of that month.
 Mr. Bush has made it clear he wants to pick a candidate with whom he has some personal rapport, as he did in nominating Ms. Miers, a White House counsel and a long-time associate, for the Supreme Court. But he also wants to choose someone who provides reassurance to the nation's financial markets, and Wall Street power brokers want someone who understands capital markets as well as monetary policy.
 Robert H. Rubin, who built a very close friendship with Mr. Greenspan when he was Treasury secretary under President Clinton, would reassure Wall Street. But while President Bush expressed admiration in 2001 for Mr. Rubin, who is now chairman of the executive committee at Citigroup, Mr. Rubin's strong support for John Kerry in the last election and his criticism of Mr. Bush's budget deficits have made him unthinkable to Republican leaders. These days, they often use ''Rubinomics'' as an expletive.
 Mr. Bush's decision will be shaped by a small group of his top advisers: Vice President Dick Cheney, who has a longstanding friendship with Mr. Greenspan; Andrew Card, Mr. Bush's chief of staff; Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's domestic policy adviser; and Joshua B. Bolten, the White House budget director.
 Whoever is selected, the next Fed chairman could be end up at odds with the White House. Fed officials have become increasingly uneasy about rising budget deficits, particularly when federal spending tied to Hurricane Katrina shot past $60 billion last month and now appears set to rise well past $100 billion. 
 If the central bank fears that federal borrowing is provoking higher inflation, the next Fed chairman will face pressure to slow the economy by raising interest rates.
 For all their merits, all three of the most serious candidates come with some negative baggage. Mr. Feldstein commands enormous prestige as an academic economist and has deep Republican ties. But his role as a director at the American International Group, the troubled insurance conglomerate, has sent shivers through the White House.
 On top of that, some Republicans have never forgiven Mr. Feldstein for his criticism of deficits when he was chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Ronald Reagan.
 Mr. Hubbard is passionately devoted to most of Mr. Bush's economic goals and was a crucial architect of his tax cuts in 2001 and 2003. But Mr. Hubbard's strengths are not in monetary policy, and some say his relations with Mr. Bush are not extremely close.
 Mr. Bernanke is a highly respected monetary economist and a former governor at the Federal Reserve. Many Wall Street analysts say he would be well received by investors. But Mr. Bernanke is still something of an unknown quantity to Mr. Bush. 
 Mr. Bush's nominee for the next Fed chairman is in many ways as important as his nominations for justices to the Supreme Court. With its sway over the nation's money supply and its ability to set short-term interest rates, the Federal Reserve directly affects the nation's rate of economic growth, its pace of job creation and its rate of inflation.
 And while the initial appointment is for a four-year term rather than a lifetime position, several previous chairman have held the job much longer because of reappointments. 
 Mr. Greenspan, who has led the central bank for the last 18 years, helped soothe the economy in times of crisis and oversaw it through a relatively benign period of strong growth, declining inflation and the lowest interest rates in a half-century.
 If Mr. Bush wants the Senate to confirm a new chairman before Congress adjourns this year, he would almost certainly have to nominate that person by early November.
 And if Mr. Bush wants to broaden the search, Republican strategists said the White House would also need time to float new names and gauge the response in financial markets.
 One person with close ties to the administration said that White House officials developed a preliminary list of candidates early this summer that included Mr. Feldstein, Mr. Bernanke and Mr. Hubbard. Mr. Bush, the person said, has been presented with some of the names informally.
 One of the rejected names may have been that of Lawrence B. Lindsey, who was Mr. Bush's first director of the White House National Economic Council but who was fired in December 2002. Mr. Lindsey, a former Fed governor, remained outspokenly loyal to Mr. Bush; The Wall Street Journal reported earlier this summer that he was under consideration for the Fed.
 But Mr. Lindsey has little support among current or former Fed officials, or from many people on Wall Street. If nothing else, Mr. Bush would be in an awkward position if he nominated someone to the Fed whom he had dismissed from his own staff.
 One Republican strategist and outside adviser to the White House said he was taken aback when Mr. Bush said on Tuesday he had not seen a list of candidates. But Mr. Bush also said the decision-making process was ''ongoing,'' and he broadened the choices earlier this year by hiring Mr. Bernanke, then a Fed governor, as his top economic adviser.
 People close to the administration said the move was intended to give Mr. Bush a chance to become more familiar with Mr. Bernanke, who is a Republican but who had been a professor at Princeton University with almost no experience in party politics before moving to the White House.
 Unlike nominations to the Supreme Court, the impending nomination of a new Fed chairman has stirred almost no ideological battle. The Fed's policy making committee has always included both Democrats and Republicans, and the disagreements almost never coincide with party affiliations.
 Under Mr. Greenspan, Fed policy makers are sharply divided about whether the Fed should set a public target for inflation. Mr. Greenspan, a Republican, has been firmly opposed. Governor Donald Kohn, a Democrat and a career Fed official, is also opposed. But Mr. Bernanke, a Republican, is an outspoken proponent of the idea.
 Mr. Greenspan is expected to have some influence on the final decision, if only in the form of a surreptitious veto power. If Mr. Greenspan did have his way, some analysts suggest that his own favorite would be the relatively unknown Mr. Kohn. 
 Articles in this series will periodically examine Alan Greenspan's 18-year tenure as the Federal Reserve chairman, which is scheduled to end in January. The articles will remain online at nytimes.com/business.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 6, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about possible successors to Alan Greenspan as chairman of the Federal Reserve misstated the political affiliation of Donald L. Kohn, who is a governor on the board. He is an independent, not a Democrat.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a news conference at the Rose Garden yesterday, President Bush said he had yet to receive a list of candidates to succeed Alan Greenspan. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUDGETS (87%); POLITICS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (56%) United States Economy; Surveys and Series; Credit; Budgets and Budgeting; Appointments and Executive Changes; United States Economy; Surveys and Series

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: C (NYSE) (54%); C (BMV) (54%); 8710 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BEN BERNANKE (74%); BILL CLINTON (74%); DICK CHENEY (59%); KARL ROVE (59%) George W (Pres) Bush; Alan (Chmn) Greenspan; Martin S (Prof) Feldstein; R Glenn Hubbard; Ben S Bernanke; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2005



109 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Gore Joins Ferrer Camp in Fight Over Harlem Debate

BYLINE: By PATRICK D. HEALY and DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
A political free-for-all broke out yesterday over Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's refusal to attend a debate in Harlem tomorrow night, as former Vice President Al Gore and good-government groups charged that the snub would damage democracy, and the mayor's camp cited the Jewish holidays as a new defense for missing the debate.
 For a fifth day, the Democratic campaign of Fernando Ferrer made an issue out of the debate location at Harlem's Apollo Theater, suggesting that the mayor was afraid to show up in the predominantly black neighborhood and face questions about high unemployment rates for black and Latino men.
The Ferrer campaign also enlisted Mr. Gore, who took part in a debate at the Apollo during the 2000 presidential race, to praise that site as ''an ideal venue for an honest exchange'' that ''honors our democracy.'' 
 To the delight of Mr. Ferrer, three good-government groups issued a statement saying that if Mr. Bloomberg does not take part in the debate it would hurt the integrity of the city's campaign finance system, which is prized by many liberal voters whom the mayor is courting.
 The city's Campaign Finance Board is sponsoring the debate, and requires candidates who receive public matching funds to participate. Mr. Bloomberg, a billionaire businessman, is financing his re-election campaign, and has agreed to two debates about a week before Election Day.
 ''We feel that the interests of New Yorkers are always better served when there are well-spaced and well-informed debates,'' said Dick Dadey, executive director of Citizens Union, one of the government watchdog groups to sign the statement. Common Cause New York and the New York Public Interest Research Group also signed.
 Mr. Bloomberg's aides have privately been fuming over the Ferrer camp's suggestions that the mayor was being insensitive to Harlem and black voters. Yesterday, a senior adviser to the mayor's campaign, William Cunningham, took a new tack, suggesting that Mr. Ferrer was being insensitive to Jewish voters -- who, like parts of the black electorate, may prove a decisive force on Election Day.
 Mr. Cunningham said tomorrow's debate was problematic because the mayor was not working yesterday, and at least part of today, because of the Jewish holidays, and would not have time to prepare. He said the campaign pressed for the debates on Oct. 30 and Nov. 1 because the mayor was tied up during the first half of October by city business, Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur.
 Asked if Mr. Ferrer was being insensitive to Jews, Mr. Cunningham said: ''I'm not Jewish so I can't say, but I do know that Ferrer held a campaign event on Sept. 11, so that doesn't seem to bother them.'' Mr. Ferrer received an endorsement from the Rev. Al Sharpton, and posed with him during lunch for the news media, on the anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks.
 But the Ferrer campaign dismissed the Bloomberg camp's excuse for not taking part in the debate. ''Mike Bloomberg's had four years to answer the question why he should be re-elected -- sounds like he's having a tough time coming up with an answer,'' said Christy Seltzer, a Ferrer campaign spokeswoman.
 Yesterday, Mr. Bloomberg's campaign released a radio ad featuring the Rev. Calvin O. Butts III, defending the mayor's efforts in Harlem.
 But another African American ally of the campaign, the Rev. Floyd Flake, said during an interview on NY1 News last night that if he had been asked by Mr. Bloomberg's campaign whether to participate in the Harlem debate, ''I probably would have told him, it probably makes some sense to do this one.'' He said he would ''not be surprised'' if the mayor were to change his mind but that he was not speaking on behalf the campaign, which had no comment on his remarks last night. 
 Campaigning in Downtown Brooklyn with elected officials, Mr. Ferrer criticized the mayor over skipping the debate -- and asserted that his calls for higher pay for teachers helped bring about a tentative contract between the Bloomberg administration and the teachers' union.
 ''Probably one of the best things to happen to labor negotiations in this city in a long time is my running for mayor,'' he said.
 Jordan Barowitz, a spokesman for the Bloomberg campaign, called Mr. Ferrer's credit-taking unbelievable.
 ''What's next, the Internet?'' Mr. Barowitz said.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 6, 2005

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's refusal to participate in a mayoral debate in Harlem tonight misspelled the surname of a spokeswoman for the campaign of Fernando Ferrer, the Democratic candidate. She is Christy Setzer, not Seltzer.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fernando Ferrer, the Democratic mayoral candidate, campaigned yesterday at the Fulton Mall in Brooklyn. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); YOM KIPPUR (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ROSH HASHANAH (77%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); LIBERALISM (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); RACE & RACISM (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (57%)

PERSON: AL GORE (90%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2005



110 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; CONNECTIONS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: 'Folksonomy' Carries Classifieds Beyond SWF and For Sale

BYLINE: By ETHAN TODRAS-WHITEHILL

 BODY:
NETWORKING sites on the Web started as online personal ads, and most are still built around the desire to meet people. But there is a new, rapidly growing generation of networking sites built around purposes, not people.
 These sites connect people by their interests and goals. Three such sites are del.icio.us, which lets users bookmark Web sites and share the bookmarks with others; 43things.com, which loosely connects users with shared goals like learning to play the guitar; and PledgeBank.com, a London-based nonprofit site that brings users together to participate in civic actions, like starting a political group or giving blood. 
Connecting people online this way is not new. Dial-up bulletin boards in the 1980's, Usenet discussion groups from the 80's and 90's and blogs today all allow users to connect with like-minded people over topics that interest them. 
 Until recently, however, groups needed a critical mass to have such a Web presence, and finding them could be difficult. Idea- and activity-oriented networking sites create ad hoc homes for many small groups and interests, and make them more easily accessible. 
 The form of information classification used on del.icio.us has become known as ''folksonomy,'' a play on the word ''taxonomy,'' coined by Thomas Vander Wal, a Web production manager who is an avid user of del.icio.us.
 Here is a look at these three genres:
 Del.icio.us -- Its intent is to allow users to create Web pages of personal bookmarks accessible from anywhere, share them with other users and view others' bookmarks. The site, started in September 2003, has 200,000 users, said its founder, Joshua Schachter.
 Networking was not the main focus of the site's design, Mr. Schachter said, but evolved out of shared activity. Each bookmark is ''tagged,'' or filed under a term of the user's choice; through tags, users work together to categorize the Web, and it is in that context that a network forms. Users meet on del.icio.us in their natural Web environment: the act of finding information they care about. 
 Mr. Vander Wal is passionate about this new user-classified information structure, so he closely follows the Web sites that others tag with the term ''folksonomy'' and related words. As any user can, he signed up to receive notifications when new bookmarks with this tag come in, and he estimated that he received 20 such messages a day.
 Over time, Mr. Vander Wal has found himself following the bookmarking activities of specific users who share his interests. That is usually as far as the contacts go, but not always. Last January, a lively blog discussion led to an e-mail exchange among Mr. Vander Wal, David Smith and Michal Migurski, all folksonomy-focused del.icio.us users. Mr. Vander Wal met Mr. Migurski in person that month in San Francisco. 
 ''It's difficult to explain to my wife what I'm doing, who these people are or how I've met them,'' he said. ''But they're insanely helpful with the issues I'm interested in.''
 43things.com -- This is one of the newer sites that use folksonomies with a purpose. Users keep lists of goals ranging from skill-building ''learn about wine'' to career-oriented ''get a promotion'' to whimsical ''shave my head into a mohawk.'' Users can leave entries about their progress toward a goal, comment on others' entries, join teams as a sign of greater commitment and cheer other people's progress.
 The site also allows participants to tag goals, and those goals integrate with sites and photos sharing the same tag on del.icio.us and Flickr. 
 Since the site's start in January, it has acquired more than 71,000 users and gets more than 600,000 page views daily.
 Chuq Yang, a Washington resident and deputy director of technology for the Democratic National Committee, is a 43Things power user. In six months, he has accomplished 553 goals, which tend to be technical (''master Linux''), quotidian (''stop biting my nails'') and occasionally romantic (''believe in love''). He spends three hours a day checking the site, and he thinks the time spent is worthwhile.
 Mr. Yang sees the initial value of 43Things as a handy place to keep a to-do list. He attributes much of his increase in productivity, however, to the social network built around that list. He spends his three daily hours cheering other people on with their goals and leaving messages about entries in other users' journals. When he does so, he usually gets a cheer or a comment in return, which he describes as ''a gentle nudge toward getting something done.''
 PledgeBank -- This site also builds networks around ideas or goals, letting users create pledges in the form of ''I will do something, if a certain number of people will help me do it.'' Other users can then ''sign'' the pledge and agree to do it. 
 The Internet has been used extensively for civic activity, but PledgeBank enables smaller-scale actions as well as large ones. Recent pledges include 54 people agreeing to compliment five people a day for a month, and 15 people agreeing to buy books exclusively from independent booksellers for the rest of 2005.
 Most pledges connect users once; as with 43Things, it is the confidence that others are pursuing a common goal that helps spur individuals to action. 
 The site provides tools to support individuals in getting their pledges met. Each pledge is given its own uncomplicated Web address, a flier for the pledge creator to print and a text-message address so people can sign up by cellphone. Pledge creators are also given the ability to contact their list of pledge signers.
 ''When you lower barriers to civic action, more things get done,'' said Tom Steinberg, director of mySociety, an organization that promotes civic activity and created PledgeBank. 
 While based in London, PledgeBank has recently added support for pledges in the United States, and Mr. Steinberg hopes to extend the site to still other countries. Even before the upgrade, however, one campaign in the United States was already using the site.
 In protest of the United States Supreme Court's ruling in June that government can use its power of eminent domain to promote private economic development, a group called Freestar Media has been trying to get the government of Weare, N.H., to give Justice David H. Souter's home and property to Freestar to build a hotel named the Liberty Lost Hotel. 
 Travis J.I. Corcoran, the owner of a video-rental company in Arlington, Mass., learned of the project and decided to start a pledge to demonstrate the potential economic gain to Weare. He asked 10 people to commit to paying for a seven-night stay at the proposed hotel; 1,418 people made the commitment before the pledge closed at the end of August.
 ''I might be a meat-eating hunter, and someone else might be a vegetarian activist,'' Mr. Corcoran said, ''but online we can come together for this one issue.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: E-BONDING -- Del.icio.us, a London-based Web site, lets users search for bookmarks on common themes.
INFO-MINDED -- David Smith, left, a professor in Britain, and Thomas Vander Wal, below, a Web production manager in Bethesda, Md., both monitor bookmarks posted by others on the Web sitedel.icio.us. (Photos by Jonathan Player for The New York Times, top
 Steve Ruark for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (91%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); WEB SITES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (70%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (60%) Computers and the Internet

PERSON: ADAM SMITH (54%) Ethan Todras-Whitehill

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) MARYLAND, USA (72%) UNITED KINGDOM (72%); UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2005



111 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 4; Circuits; CONNECTIONS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: Korea's High-Tech Utopia, Where Everything Is Observed

BYLINE: By PAMELA LICALZI O'CONNELL

 BODY:
IMAGINE public recycling bins that use radio-frequency identification technology to credit recyclers every time they toss in a bottle; pressure-sensitive floors in the homes of older people that can detect the impact of a fall and immediately contact help; cellphones that store health records and can be used to pay for prescriptions.
 These are among the services dreamed up by industrial-design students at California State University, Long Beach, for possible use in New Songdo City, a large ''ubiquitous city'' being built in South Korea.
A ubiquitous city is where all major information systems (residential, medical, business, governmental and the like) share data, and computers are built into the houses, streets and office buildings. New Songdo, located on a man-made island of nearly 1,500 acres off the Incheon coast about 40 miles from Seoul, is rising from the ground up as a U-city. 
 Although there are other U-city efforts in South Korea, officials see New Songdo as one apart. ''New Songdo will be the first to fully adapt the U-city concept, not only in Korea but in the world,'' said Mike An via an e-mail message. Mr. An is the chief project manager of the Incheon Free Economic Zone Authority, the government agency overseeing the project.
 In the West, ubiquitous computing is a controversial idea that raises privacy concerns and the specter of a surveillance society. (They'll know whether I recycled my Coke bottle?!) But in Asia the concept is viewed as an opportunity to show off technological prowess and attract foreign investment. 
 ''Korea has gathered the world's attention with its CDMA and mobile technologies,'' Mr. An wrote, referring to digital cellular standards. ''Now we need to prepare ourselves for the next market,'' which he said was radio-frequency identification, or RFID, and for U-cities. South Korea's Ministry of Information and Communication has earmarked $297 million to build an RFID research center in New Songdo. 
 Fulfilling this ambition, to a large degree, resides with John Kim, a 35-year-old Korean-American who leads New Songdo's U-city planning. Mr. Kim is vice president for strategy at New Songdo City Development, a joint venture of the Gale Company, an American developer, and POSCO E&C, a subsidiary of South Korea's giant steel company. 
 Mr. Kim, formerly a design leader at Yahoo, said the city's high-tech infrastructure will be a giant test bed for new technologies, and the city itself will exemplify a digital way of life, what he calls ''U-life.'' 
 ''U-life will become its own brand, its own lifestyle,'' Mr. Kim said. It all starts with a resident's smart-card house key. ''The same key can be used to get on the subway, pay a parking meter, see a movie, borrow a free public bicycle and so on. It'll be anonymous, won't be linked to your identity, and if lost you can quickly cancel the card and reset your door lock.'' 
 Residents will enjoy ''full videoconferencing calls between neighbors, video on demand and wireless access to their digital content and property from anywhere in Songdo,'' he said. 
 Whether it lives up to its billing as an exportable city of the future -- its critics fear another planned-city disappointment like Brazil's capital, Brasilia -- New Songdo will most likely be a chance to study the large-scale use of RFID, smart cards and sensor-based devices even as Western societies lag in this next wave of computing. 
 ''There are really no comparable comprehensive frameworks for ubiquitous computing,'' said Anthony Townsend, a research director at the Institute for the Future in Palo Alto, Calif., and a former Fulbright scholar in Seoul. ''U-city is a uniquely Korean idea.''
 New Songdo, a free-enterprise zone where English will be the lingua franca, is often called the largest private real-estate development in the world. When completed in 2014, it is estimated that this $25 billion project will be home to 65,000 people and that 300,000 will work there. Amenities will include an aquarium, golf course, American-managed hospital and preparatory schools, a central park (like New York's), a system of canals (like Venice's) and pocket parks (like Savannah's), a self-described patchwork of elements gleaned from other cities.
 People from Seoul and other crowded South Korean cities are already applying for apartments, and planners are counting on luring attractive businesses. 
 The technology infrastructure will be built and managed by Songdo U-Life, a partnership of New Songdo City Development and the South Korean network integrator LG CNS, which is recruiting foreign information-technology companies as partners.
 ''This is a profit-generating model, unlike other U-city projects,'' Mr. Kim said. ''Songdo U-Life will charge building owners for facilities management and act as a gateway to services. Our partners will test market services that require, say, wireless data access everywhere or a common ID system, without having to build anything themselves.''
 More philosophically, ''New Songdo sounds like it will be one big Petri dish for understanding how people want to use technology,'' said B.J. Fogg, the director of the Persuasive Technology Lab at Stanford University. 
 If so, it is an experiment much easier to do in Asia than in the West.
 ''Much of this technology was developed in U.S. research labs, but there are fewer social and regulatory obstacles to implementing them in Korea,'' said Mr. Townsend, who consulted on Seoul's own U-city plan, known as Digital Media City. ''There is an historical expectation of less privacy. Korea is willing to put off the hard questions to take the early lead and set standards.''
 Two things Mr. Kim insists on are that U-life will not be used to test ''junk'' and that the digital services will be designed around people's needs rather than around the technology. ''We'll be doing marketing and ethnographic research, digging deeper,'' he said. As part of that research, Mr. Kim asked the Cal State students to submit ideas for U-life. 
 While New Songdo's publicity material states that it seeks to avoid the ''stressful flaws that compromise'' existing cities, Mr. Townsend says he doubts that it will be able to emulate the creative energy of, say, Seoul. ''Will it really be a place where people want to experiment?'' he asked. 
 South Korea perceives an economic imperative in the answer. ''Korea has a very strong I.T. industry, but our other economic sectors are not so good,'' said Geunho Lee, a senior research fellow at the Korea U-City Forum, a public-private group involved in supporting U-city projects across the country. ''We need to test the business validity of these services in order to generate new value and economic growth.''
 The ability to do such vast market testing is enviable, said Dr. Fogg, of Stanford. ''This is a competitive advantage for the Koreans,'' he said. ''They will know before anyone else what flies.''
 ''But I foresee that many services will fail,'' he added. ''That's the nature of experimentation. They should be prepared for the frailties of human nature to emerge.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: THE U-LIFE -- South Korea plans to spend $25 billion on New Songdo, the world's largest ''ubiquitous city,'' with computers linking home life and life on its streets. Construction, 40 miles from Seoul, is to be done in 2014. (Photo of rendering by courtesy of Kohn Pedersen Fox Associates)
 (Photo Courtesy of Gale International)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); RADIO FREQUENCY IDENTIFICATION (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); CODE DIVISION MULTIPLE ACCESS (78%); MEDICAL RECORDS (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (75%); CITIES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); INWARD INVESTMENT (70%); CITY LIFE (70%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (69%); OFFICE PROPERTY (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (65%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (65%) Computers and the Internet; Privacy; Surveillance of Citizens by Government; Foreign Investments; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: POSCO (57%)

TICKER: PKX (NYSE) (57%); PIDD (LSE) (57%); 5412 (TSE) (57%); 005490 (KSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331222 STEEL WIRE DRAWING (57%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: Pamela Licalzi O'Connell

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%); INCHON, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%) South Korea ; New Songdo City (South Korea)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2005



112 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 2; Circuits; COLLABORATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1554 words

HEADLINE: Working Together, Wherever They Are

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
TO glimpse the real effect of today's computer networks, it helps to travel far beyond the high-tech hothouse of Silicon Valley, away from the venture capitalists, inventors and billionaire-wannabe entrepreneurs. To go where Google is just a search engine, not an obsession.
 Try Elkhart, Ind., home to Nibco Inc., a century-old maker and distributor of plumbing supplies. A private company, Nibco employs 3,000 workers and generates $500 million a year in sales. It faces stiff competition from Chinese producers.
Since the late 1990's, Nibco has pushed hard to increase productivity and improve customer service by using computer networks. The company first focused on its own operations, then established network links to its customers and suppliers. Now, Nibco's inventory, labor and administrative costs are down sharply, and 70 percent of all orders are digitally automated, twice the level of a few years ago. 
 The second round of Internet innovation appears to be here. Companies large and small experienced soaring productivity in the 90's as the Web made worlds of information available at the click of a mouse, and the Internet drastically reduced the cost of communicating and doing business with someone on the next floor or the next continent. That cost-cutting payoff continues to spread. But in the next wave, companies are embracing the potential of networked computing to let workers share their knowledge more efficiently as they nurture new ideas, new products and new ways to digitally automate all sorts of tasks. 
 Companies are drawing on collaborative models that first blossomed in nonbusiness settings, from online games to open-source software projects to the so-called wiki encyclopedias and blogs to speed up innovation. This networked collaboration is creating new opportunities and disrupting industries. New styles of work and, in business schools, new theories of innovation are rising.
 ''The big payoff for the future will be in helping knowledge workers to be more inventive and creative, and to get those innovations into the marketplace,'' said Erik Brynjolfsson, a professor of managerial economics at the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''That's where a wealthy nation like the United States is ultimately going to have to seek its competitive advantage.''
 Open-source software is a pioneering example of the kind of collaborative work made possible by the Internet. Networks of far-flung programmers share code and ideas to constantly improve and debug their software. So the open-source Linux operating system is challenging Microsoft's Windows, a product backed by one of the world's richest corporations.
 The open-source formula is being applied in one field after another. Projects range from Wikipedia, an open-source encyclopedia, to Biological Innovation for Open Society, or BIOS, an open-source initiative in biotechnology. Corporations are rapidly adopting software tools intended to nurture collaborative work, including wikis, blogs, instant messaging, Web-based conferencing and peer-to-peer programs.
 So far, economists say that only a fraction of the cost-cutting opportunity from networked computing has been captured. Looking ahead, they say, the United States must master how to use networked collaboration to accelerate innovation. 
 Pursuing that competitive edge will rely partly on the spread and steady advances in high-speed networks and software, but mostly on smart people figuring out how to exploit this protean technology. That is certainly the lesson of history. The electric motor, for example, was introduced in the 19th century, but the big economic benefits came decades later with innovations like assembly lines and mass production.
 ''Whether the current information technology-enabled productivity surge will continue into the future is and should be controversial, for it depends on the inventive capacity of businesses using the technology,'' said Timothy F. Bresnahan, an economist at Stanford University.
 Personally, Mr. Bresnahan said he would bet on it. And businesses everywhere have been betting on the potential payoff from networked computing projects of all sizes. In Williamsville, N.Y., the Buffalo Brew Pub, which offers food and 34 draft beers, took the usual touch-screen ordering system further. It installed six I.B.M. touch-screen terminals linked to a Web-based network. Waiters punch in the orders, which are electronically shuttled to the kitchen and the bar, instead of walking them over.
 Now, said Keith Morgan, the general manager, there are no mistakes from messy handwriting or bad math. From his laptop at the restaurant or home, Mr. Morgan can tap into a Web site and get hourly reports on inventory and sales by drink or food items. Slow-moving items are quickly eliminated from the menu. The payroll is automated, saving him hours a week.
 Mr. Morgan estimated that the productivity of his staff, which serves more than 2,500 customers a week, has increased 15 to 20 percent, from time saved not calculating checks and running to the kitchen and bar with orders. ''It keeps them out on the floor, so the customers see them so they order that extra drink,'' he said.
 In the health care arena, government and industry are striving to move from paper and ink to digital patient records and prescriptions as a big step in the development of a national health information network. Such a network, experts say, is essential for reducing medical mistakes, curbing costs and independently evaluating the effectiveness of treatments and drugs. Building up a health information network will take several years and billions of dollars. It will be a challenge, but a national network has become a practical goal because of the falling costs and open standards of modern networked computing. ''It's the Internet that makes it possible technically,'' said Dr. David J. Brailer, the Bush administration's coordinator for health information technology.
 Others are working on small-scale health networks. A unit of Bang & Olufsen, the Danish producer of stereo gear, is developing a ''smart pill box'' with I.B.M. It is linked by short-range Bluetooth technology to cellphones or notebook PC's, tracking when people take pills -- and reminding them when they forget -- to improve treatment and assist in diagnosis and clinical trials. 
 For Mark Dickinson, a technical manager at the XRT Group, a software company, the payoff from using Web collaboration software is self-evident. With Microsoft's Live Meeting program, Mr. Dickinson can provide technical support to the large corporations that use XRT's cash management software without traveling from his office in King of Prussia, Pa. He can see what is on the computer screen in customers' data centers, tell them what setting may be wrong, walk them through software upgrades -- even, with permission, take control of their computers and make changes himself.
 In his job, Mr. Dickinson uses the Web collaboration tool three or four times a day. ''I can spend a few hours on a Web conference instead of spending three days, including the travel time, for an on-site visit to a client,'' he said. ''The productivity benefit is just obvious. Besides, I hate flying.''
 Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, an investment bank, has been using wiki software, which lets users collaborate on Web pages, to encourage teamwork among its traders and bankers around the world. The wiki software, from Socialtext, a start-up, has replaced e-mail and conference calls for tasks like pricing international bond offerings. ''It's a virtual work space for tapping the expertise and knowledge of more people,'' said P.J. Rangaswami, chief information officer of Dresdner Kleinwort. ''Conference calls and e-mail just aren't suited for collaborative work.'' 
 This is the year when more American households will be connected to the Internet with high-speed connections, or broadband, than with slower dial-up connections. According to research by S.G. Cowan & Company, broadband households will jump by 8 million this year to nearly 39 million. 
 Seeing the spread of broadband, media companies are investing in the Internet again, despite being burned badly in the bubble years. They recognize the inevitable, that broadband is bringing a shift in their world as faster network connections mean more video, music and advertising migrating to the Internet. So major media companies must try to capture Internet revenues as growth in their traditional broadcast, cable and publishing businesses slows.
 One striking sign of how far the pendulum of industry sentiment has swung came last month when Richard D. Parsons, chairman of Time Warner, called AOL -- its long-disparaged partner in a disastrous merger of the mania years -- his company's big growth opportunity today. 
 For his part, Rupert Murdoch predicts that the News Corporation's Internet revenues may jump fivefold or tenfold over the next five years, to $500 million or $1 billion. ''The timing is right,'' Mr. Murdoch told an industry conference last month. ''Growth has really come in the last year or so with the growth of broadband.''
 The media moguls, it seems, agree with the Indiana plumbing supply company, Nibco. Jumping on the Internet is unavoidable, a competitive necessity.


GRAPHIC: Photos: PRODUCTIVE -- Debra Duscher, above, and Melissa Morgan, who are waitresses at the Buffalo Brew Pub in Williamsville, N.Y., use a networked ordering system that saves them steps and the restaurant money with hourly reports on inventory and sales. (Photographs by Mike Groll for The New York Times)(pg. G9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (87%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (86%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); HARDWARE PLUMBING & HVAC WHOLESALERS (71%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (70%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (67%); SOFTWARE TESTING & QUALITY ASSURANCE (63%); PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES & TOOLS (63%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (50%) Computers and the Internet; Finances; Computer Software; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: NIBCO INC (72%); GOOGLE INC (58%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3432 PLUMBING FIXTURE FITTINGS & TRIM (72%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2005



113 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; STORM AND CRISIS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 107 words

HEADLINE: Vital Shipping Region Struggles Back

BYLINE: By DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN

 BODY:
The ports of southeastern Louisiana, which include Baton Rouge, South Louisiana, New Orleans and Plaquemines, are among the 
 busiest in the United States. Covering the last 250 miles of the Mississippi River as it approaches the Gulf of Mexico, the ports handle most of the country's grain, a significant portion of its chemical and energy products, and raw materials like iron ore used in construction and manufacturing. Here is an overview of the ports in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. The data is for 2003, the latest available, and is for foreign imports and exports representing about half of all cargo shipments. DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN

CORRECTION-DATE: October 7, 2005

 CORRECTION:
Figures in a chart in Business Day yesterday showing the value of cargo through the Port of South Louisiana were mispositioned. A corrected version appears today, on Page C2.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Maps:RANK AMONG U.S. PORTS BY TONNAGE10 -- Baton RougeSpecializes in agricultural products, with the country's second-largest molasses terminal and a coffee-roasting plant. Handles a lot of containers, steel products and raw materials as well.STATUS -- Traffic is up 15 percent since before the storm. A cruise ship is docked there to provide housing for displaced L.S.U. medical students.IMPORTSFertilizerSHARE OF U.S. TOTAL -- 29.6%AMOUNT, IN MILLIONS -- $307.0Coal cokeSHARE OF U.S. TOTAL -- 8.5AMOUNT, IN MILLIONS -- 54.5Nonferrous ores and scrapSHARE OF U.S. TOTAL -- 7.3AMOUNT, IN MILLIONS -- 71.4Sulfur, clay and saltSHARE OF U.S. TOTAL -- 6.4AMOUNT, IN MILLIONS -- 105.4Petroleum cokeSHARE OF U.S. TOTAL -- 3.0AMOUNT, IN MILLIONS -- 10.2EXPORTSRice, barley, rye, oats, sorghumSHARE OF U.S. TOTAL -- 9.4%AMOUNT, IN MILLIONS -- $131.2Coal cokeSHARE OF U.S. TOTAL -- 4.4AMOUNT, IN MILLIONS -- 32.2FertilizerSHARE OF U.S. TOTAL -- 2.9AMOUNT, IN MILLIONS -- 60.2Petroleum cokeSHARE OF U.S. TOTAL -- 2.3AMOUNT, IN MILLIONS -- 24.4Gasoline and keroseneSHARE OF U.S. TOTAL -- 1.5AMOUNT, IN MILLIONS -- 97.21 -- South LouisianaThe largest port in the country by tonnage, it specializes in corn and grains, with a number of companies owning large grain silos within the port. It is also a major petrochemical port.STATUS -- Like Baton Rouge, South Louisiana has experienced a rise of about 15 percent above normal in cargo traffic since the hurricane.IMPORTSFertilizerSHARE OF U.S. TOTAL -- 11.6%AMOUNT, IN MILLIONS -- $120.3Rice, barley, rye, oats, sorghumSHARE OF U.S. TOTAL -- 4.6AMOUNT, IN MILLIONS -- 13.4Petroleum cokeSHARE OF U.S. TOTAL -- 4.2AMOUNT, IN MILLIONS -- 14.1Nonferrous ores and scrapSHARE OF U.S. TOTAL -- 4.2AMOUNT, IN MILLIONS -- 40.6Gasoline and keroseneSHARE OF U.S. TOTAL -- 3.0AMOUNT, IN MILLIONS -- 751.9EXPORTSCornSHARE OF U.S. TOTAL -- 36.3%AMOUNT, IN MILLIONS -- $1,507.5OilseedSHARE OF U.S. TOTAL -- 23.7AMOUNT, IN MILLIONS -- 1,949.0Rice, barley, rye, oats, sorghumSHARE OF U.S. TOTAL -- 17.9AMOUNT, IN MILLIONS -- 248.8WheatSHARE OF U.S. TOTAL -- 12.5AMOUNT, IN MILLIONS -- 472.4Petroleum cokeSHARE OF U.S. TOTAL -- 7.3AMOUNT, IN MILLIONS -- 77.25 -- New OrleansSpecializes in agricultural products and break bulk -- cargo that does not conform to the shape of ship holds. Among the commodities are coffee, oil, raw materials and products for steel, rubber products, wood and paper.STATUS -- Reopened, but operating at about 25 percent of its pre-hurricane capacity. Several facilities are damaged, including the Mandeville St. wharf warehouse, which burned, and a new cold storage unit in the heavily flooded area along the Industrial Canal.IMPORTSIron ore and scrapSHARE OF U.S. TOTAL -- 34.6%AMOUNT, IN MILLIONS -- $113.6FertilizerSHARE OF U.S. TOTAL -- 17.7AMOUNT, IN MILLIONS -- 183.2Nonferrous ores and scrapSHARE OF U.S. TOTAL -- 16.7AMOUNT, IN MILLIONS -- 162.4Petroleum cokeSHARE OF U.S. TOTAL -- 13.9AMOUNT, IN MILLIONS -- 46.9Primary nonferrous metal productsSHARE OF U.S. TOTAL -- 12.7AMOUNT, IN MILLIONS -- 1,000.1EXPORTSCornSHARE OF U.S. TOTAL -- 42.4%AMOUNT, IN MILLIONS -- $1,765.0Oil seedsSHARE OF U.S. TOTAL -- 37.0AMOUNT, IN MILLIONS -- 3,037.1Rice, barley, rye, oats, sorghumSHARE OF U.S. TOTAL -- 19.3AMOUNT, IN MILLIONS -- 268.3WheatSHARE OF U.S. TOTAL -- 11.1AMOUNT, IN MILLIONS -- 419.3Coal cokeSHARE OF U.S. TOTAL -- 10.1AMOUNT, IN MILLIONS -- 73.211 -- PlaqueminesHandles large amounts of coal as well as steel, paper and raw materials for concrete.STATUS -- Yet to reopen
state officials fear that the port, which was directly in the path of Hurricane Katrina, may have been severely damaged.Figures for imports and exports are not available because those are compiled from customs data and Plaquemines is not a customs port.Maps of Louisiana and surrounding areas highlight the aforementioned locations.(Macaulay Campbell and Dylan Loeb McClain/The New York Times)(Sources by Army Corps of Engineers
Maritime Administration
Ports Association of Louisiana
Port of Greater Baton Rouge
Port of South Louisiana
Port of New Orleans
St. Bernard Port
 Louisiana Department of Economic Development)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (85%); EXPORT TRADE (85%); HURRICANES (84%); TROPICAL STORMS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (97%) NORTH AMERICA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2005



114 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Increase in Fuel Costs Causes Airlines And Shipping Companies to Raise Prices
Airlines and shippers said they were increasing fares and cutting routes in response to the rising cost of fuel, brought on by the slow recovery of refineries along the Gulf Coast. [Page C1.]

The Port of New Orleans is perhaps the prime example of the conundrum that the city faces as it seeks to restart its economic engines. The city needs the port to begin generating revenue and jobs. But the port cannot get back on its feet until many of its workers return. And that is not possible until city services are restored and housing built or rebuilt. [C1.]

Stocks Fall on Signs of Economic Slowdown
Stocks had their broadest decline in months, tumbling on evidence of slowing growth in service industries after hurricanes Katrina and Rita. The Standard & Poor's 500 lost 18.08 points, to 1196.39; it is down 1.3 percent this year. The Nasdaq composite index retreated 36.34 points, or 1.7 percent, to 2,103.02. Both had their biggest one-day drop in almost six months. The Dow Jones industrial average retreated 123.75, or 1.2 percent, to 10,317.36. [C11.]

New Consumer Choices Challenge Supermarkets
Faced with a seemingly endless array of food shopping choices, consumers are increasingly shunning the neighborhood supermarket and going to Wal-Mart, Costco or other discounters for lower prices or to places like Whole Foods and Wild Oats for specialized quality and service. [C1.]

Microsoft Introduces Games for New Xbox Console
Trying to take the lead in the race to dominate the next generation of video game systems, Microsoft has unveiled a broad range of games that it hopes will propel millions of consumers to buy its Xbox 360 console. [C3.]

Microsoft will introduce a set of corporate products that will move it more fully into competition with the leading makers of security software for Windows computers. [C3.]

Eighteen months after finding Microsoft guilty of monopoly abuse, the European Commission has appointed a trustee to ensure that the company makes the changes called for in the ruling. [C11.]

General Motors to Sell Fuji Stake to Raise Cash
General Motors said that it would sell its 20 percent stake in Fuji Heavy Industries, the parent of Subaru, in a deal that could raise more than $700 million. Much of G.M.'s stake was sold to Toyota. Market Place. [C3.]

Video Producers Seek Exposure on the Web
Video delivered over the Internet, which has been embraced by media and Internet giants like Viacom and Yahoo, is shaping up as a way for smaller producers to reach an audience without having to cut deals with movie studios and the big networks that are the traditional gatekeepers of television. [C1.]

Viacom Explains Details on Coming Split
Viacom, which is planning to split into two companies next year, named Shari Redstone, left, as nonexecutive vice chairwoman of both units. That company also said that investors would receive half a share in each new business for every Viacom share. The boards of the new Viacom and the CBS Corporation will share three other common directors, including Ms. Redstone's father, Sumner M. Redstone, the chairman, Viacom said. [C6.]

More Marketers Enter the Executive Suite
As companies devote more attention to marketing, they are creating the elevated title of chief marketing officer to match. Often, the turnover in these positions can be high. Advertising. [C6.]

When Having a Music Player Feels Like Marriage
There are many pocketsize digital music players available, but they fall into two groups: Apple's iPod products and everything else. That reality, rooted in technology as well as style, poses a challenge for music lovers who want to upgrade their devices. Circuits. [C9.]

From the Wine Cellar to the Fuel Tank
The worldwide glut of wine has become so huge that for the first time in history, France is distilling some of its higher-rated wines into fuel. [A4.]

Retailers Go to Court to Contest Credit Card Fee
Merchants are joining forces in court to challenge how Visa USA and MasterCard International set the so-called interchange fee charged to merchants by the banks processing a transaction. [C5.]

Visa USA's chief executive proposed creating a private standard-setting agency for the credit card industry that would certify that banks and merchants had met certain guidelines but would have little power to enforce them. [C3.]

Endesa Chief Asserts Opposition to Hostile Bid
Rafael Miranda, chief executive of the Spanish energy company Endesa, said that a $28 billion hostile bid for his company by another Spanish company, Gas Natural, was a value-destroying, politically motivated mistake. [C17.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index since Jan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); COMPUTER GAMES (86%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (86%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (86%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (86%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); HURRICANE KATRINA (72%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (69%); APPOINTMENTS (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (63%); MONOPOLIZATION (61%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); FUJI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD (51%); VIACOM INC (51%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); GM (NYSE) (52%); 7270 (TSE) (51%); VIA (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (51%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2005



115 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE HEARTBEAT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: A Barren Port Waits Eagerly For Its People

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS 

 BODY:
Gary P. LaGrange, the exuberant chief executive of the Port of New Orleans, tries to convey the impression of a man at ease. After all, the warehouses and wharf along the Mississippi River that he is in charge of suffered minimal wind damage and flooding from Hurricane Katrina.
 But the nonchalance is deceptive. More than a month after Katrina struck New Orleans, as much as 80 percent of the port's operations remain shut. And getting them back up is in many ways out of his control: Many of the hundreds of workers needed to run the port are living in other states. Several of the rail lines into the port were torn apart by the storm; road access for tractor-trailers remains limited.
Indeed, the port is perhaps the prime example of the conundrum that New Orleans faces as it seeks to restart its economic engines. The city needs the port to begin generating revenue and jobs again. But the port cannot get back on its feet until many of its workers return. And that is not possible until city services are restored and housing built or rebuilt. 
 ''Everything is physically in place for the most important port facilities to get back up and running,'' said Asaf Ashar, a professor at the National Ports and Waterways Institute at the University of New Orleans. ''What's needed is for the city around the port to start functioning again.''
 Adding insult to injury as far as Mr. LaGrange is concerned, five million pounds of previously frozen chicken have rotted in a warehouse without electricity. 
 ''Do you know what that smells like?'' Mr. LaGrange, 59, said in a recent interview at the port's headquarters building, where SWAT officers from the Louisiana State Police temporarily encamped on the first floor in the weeks after Katrina. For several days, Mr. LaGrange conducted the port's business from a single cellphone and slept on a couch in his sweltering office.
 Managing a smile as he sought to explain why the port needed as much as $1.7 billion in government assistance to recover, he said, ''At least we're back in business again.''
 That is true, but only just. In a largely symbolic move, a ship has already delivered containers of coffee and wood from Brazil and Argentina, while a shipment of steel coils left for a Hyundai plant in Greenville, Ala. Port executives and about two dozen workers and river pilots had returned and were living in the cramped quarters of two Maritime Administration reserve ships docked in the harbor here, the crane ship Diamond State and a training and administrative vessel, the Sirius. 
 The Port of New Orleans, the nation's fifth-largest in terms of tonnage, has certainly not lost its major advantage: the location near the mouth of the Mississippi River. It is both the gateway to the interior of the nation and the reason New Orleans exists in the first place.
 But the port has far to go before it can return to anything resembling its pre-Katrina level. Indeed, while the ships have quarters for as many as many 1,000 workers, only a handful have returned to their jobs in a city of sparse services.
 Kevin Kelly, president of one of the largest warehouse operators at the port, Port Cargo Service, said he was trying to fill at least 100 jobs. Just two of the company's 28 buildings had water damage, Mr. Kelly said, but less than a third of the 240 employees had returned to the city. 
 ''I'm not trying to minimize the suffering of people,'' he continued, ''but they're not coming back to work because the government is paying them to be elsewhere, whether it's Houston, Memphis or Dallas.''
 Officials and shipping experts say it is not just New Orleans that needs the Mississippi Delta ports. The national economy, in particular the Midwest industrial and farm regions, are heavily dependent on them, too. Few places rival New Orleans and its sister ports for handling volumes of grain, steel, rubber, plywood, coffee and specialized products like medical equipment.
 Cargo is ferried by barge up and down the Mississippi River and its tributaries, as far away as the Alleghenies and the Rockies, as it has been for more than two centuries. 
 With this year's grain harvest about to take place, farmers are paying particularly close attention to the restoration efforts. 
 The Port of South Louisiana, north of the city and bigger than the Port of New Orleans in terms of tonnage, emerged from the storm without significant damage to its grain elevators and warehouses. It faces fewer challenges in restoring services, but overcoming the obstacles will still not be easy.
 The Mississippi River into and beyond New Orleans remains navigable for ships, though some barges require expert maneuvering. Large agribusiness concerns like Cargill say they are confident that they will not need to reroute much cargo to other ports.
 It is no accident that French explorers established a port here, in what were mosquito-infested swamplands in 1718, as a supply base connecting the interior of North America with colonies in the West Indies. 
 ''Before there were paved roads or railroads or airplanes or the Internet, there was the Mississippi running down to New Orleans,'' said Ari Kelman, a professor of history at the University of California, Davis, who has written on New Orleans and its port.
 Transport along the Mississippi is still a competitive, if comparatively slow, method of moving products like soybeans, sand, salt or cement. 
 In terms of volume, one barge on the river can carry the equivalent weight of 15 rail cars or 58 semi trucks. Rising fuel costs have made barge transportation even more attractive in recent months, despite cost increases imposed since Katrina disrupted river commerce. 
 ''If you're not in a huge rush, you're going to go through New Orleans,'' said J. Stephen Lucas, president of Jayhawker Consulting, a commodities consulting company in Trumbull, Conn. 
 The port now has the world's longest wharf, stretching two miles, and is at the helm of the world's busiest waterway, with 6,000 vessels moving through New Orleans each year. 
 Its work force before the storm was relatively small, about 350, but Mr. LaGrange estimated that its activities were responsible for some 107,000 jobs, many at private warehouses, and $13 billion in spending in Louisiana. 
 Like those of hundreds of other businesses along the Gulf Coast, the port's finances are in disarray. A steep drop in cargo activity has resulted in a drop-off in income, normally $800,000 to $1 million a week, and Mr. LaGrange said he was scrambling to find $8 million over the next several months to service the port's $110 million of debt.
 Its biggest challenge, though, lies in whether workers can return to a viable New Orleans. Other nearby ports, like those of South Louisiana and Baton Rouge, have managed to recover largely because their waterways and the nearby homes of workers remained largely intact. 
 For the Port of New Orleans to return to 80 percent to 100 percent of normal activity by next March, as Mr. LaGrange insists is possible, it desperately needs laborers. The handful of port workers who have returned so far say it has been challenging, but not unbearable, to be back in New Orleans, even if it is in the temporary quarters on the Maritime Administration's reserve ships. 
 ''It's a whole lot better than standing idle,'' said Joseph Sambola, 23, a gear operator for P&O Ports, a stevedoring company that has reopened two terminals in New Orleans. 
 ''Sure, I'd like to eat at a restaurant or have a beer at my favorite bar,'' he said the other day, ''but that'll have to wait.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (78%); HARBORS & PORTS (78%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HURRICANES (77%); TROPICAL STORMS (77%); RIVERS (77%); WEATHER (77%); POWER FAILURES (72%); TRENDS (71%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (71%); POULTRY (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Ships and Shipping ; Economic Conditions and Trends; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Labor; Shutdowns (Institutional); Ports; Ships and Shipping 

PERSON: Simon Romero

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (97%) LOUISIANA, USA (97%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (93%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2005



116 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE FARMERS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: A Summer of Promise, and Then an Autumn of Disappointment 

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Don Bell, a soybean farmer in West Memphis, Ark., says that he is having one of his best harvests in decades. Too bad he can't enjoy it more.
 About 400 miles up the Mississippi River and a world away from New Orleans, Mr. Bell's farming business has nonetheless been affected by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in unpredictable ways. The late summer's torrential rain, for all the destruction it wreaked along the Gulf Coast, was good for crops in much of the Midwest. Partly as a result, soybean prices have fallen more than 30 percent since their peak in mid-June. 
Then there are diesel fuel prices, already sky-high before Hurricane Katrina, which have increased even more since the storm, driving up the cost of filling Mr. Bell's 140-gallon combine tank to over $300 a day. 
 But the biggest problem may be the shortage of barges where they are needed most -- upriver. Low river levels before the hurricane had already slowed shipments. Then, when Katrina struck, many of the barges were caught near New Orleans, waiting to be unloaded or ready to head north.
 Navigation restrictions, power cutoffs and labor shortages only added to the delays in getting the barges back where they would normally be at this time of year. And just when the river traffic began to recover, Hurricane Rita made the problem worse.
 The shortage of barges has driven freight costs to levels higher than anyone along the Mississippi can recall. 
 ''Even though you have a big yield, you can wind up with very little money left in your pocket,'' Mr. Bell shouted over the roar of his combine, sweeping up thigh-high amber soybean stalks one recent warm September afternoon. 
 Even in the best of times, getting the harvest to market forces shippers to perform an intricate ballet. But the hurricanes have sent shock waves through the American agricultural system. And though the barges have begun to move again, a return to more normal traffic and prices is not expected for at least a few weeks -- in other words, not until this fall's harvest has ended. 
 ''It's kind of like the domino effect,'' said John Cooper, president of the First State Bank in Parkin, Ark., and a director of Riceland Foods, a farmers' cooperative that markets rice and soybeans. ''Everything touches something else.''
 Jim Brady, mid-South manager for Bunge, a big agricultural company that buys crops from local farmers and transports them to Louisiana for export, likened the situation to ''when you have a big wreck on the highway.'' That was certainly the case at his company's grain elevator in Memphis. It would not be unusual at this time of year, he said, for 14 or 15 barges to be lined up, waiting to get to the series of chutes and ladders that unload the grain from storage tanks. Three weeks after Katrina, there was just one barge, half empty. 
 The storm's economic effects upriver are even more evident in freight costs. These are paid by the farmer to the grain elevator in the form of a discount on the market price established by the Chicago Board of Trade. 
 Take the cost of shipping soybeans. An analysis by Billy Herrington of the Price Risk Management Group, a commodity advisory firm based in Little Rock, Ark., found that in mid-March, when many farmers first signed contracts for the harvest this fall, soybeans were trading around $6.44 a bushel with freight costing about 15 cents. By mid-June, prices peaked at around $7.70 a bushel and shipping costs remained about the same. 
 But the day after Katrina hit, freight costs began to rise. With soybeans trading at $5.99 a bushel, freight costs rose to 25 cents because of concerns about the barges. By mid-September, soybean prices had fallen further, to $5.70, but freight rates had more than doubled, to an average of 55 cents and at some grain elevators, even more. 
 Soybean prices have fallen slightly more since then. But freight prices, while lower than at their peak, are still about 30 cents. Shipping prices for crops like corn and rice have followed a similar pattern. 
 This means that a farmer who signed a soybean contract in March would take home roughly 89 cents a bushel, or 14 percent more, than a farmer who sold his crop today.
 ''When you consider you put 55,000 bushels on a barge, that's quite a lot of money in added transportation costs,'' Mr. Brady said, or about $49,000 in a business where profit margins are already thin. 
 To be sure, farmers like Mr. Bell typically sign contracts with the grain elevators in the early spring and summer to deliver crops in the fall, effectively locking in prices to hedge against market downturns. 
 Still, the traditional methods for coping with freight cost increases on the river are either unavailable or unprofitable. Turning to trucks is inefficient, particularly at today's gasoline prices, because it takes some five dozen 40-foot trailers to haul the same amount of grain as a barge. Railroad cars, with less capacity, are similarly expensive. 
 For many farmers, that leaves storing the grain as the most attractive option. But space is scarce. ''There will be some storage challenges over the next 30 days,'' said Benjamin Basting, an analyst at Advance Trading in Bloomington, Ill.
 Mr. Bell, the West Memphis farmer, says he will muddle through. But with cash flow tight this fall, Mr. Cooper, the community bank president, suggested that farmers are likely to be squeezed even further when they seek operating loans for next year's planting.
 ''Just doing the projected numbers,'' he said, ''it's going to be a difficult spring.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Wes Bell, a farmer, left, talking with Jason Hays, an elevator manager, in Memphis. (Photo by Rollin Riggs for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); SOYBEAN FARMING (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); RIVERS (90%); WEATHER (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (73%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); FUEL MARKETS (69%); LABOR SHORTAGES (68%); DIESEL FUEL (55%) Agriculture; Farmers; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Rita (Storm); Katrina (Storm); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Shortages; Barges and Scows

PERSON: Eric Dash

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (91%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (91%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2005



117 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: When Disasters Act as Accelerators of Change 

BYLINE: By Virginia Postrel. 
Virginia Postrel (dynamist.com) is the author of ''The Substance of Style: How the Rise of Aesthetic Value Is Remaking Commerce, Culture and Consciousness.''

 BODY:
SPEAKING after Hurricane Katrina, President Bush promised that ''we will do what it takes, we will stay as long as it takes, to help citizens rebuild their communities and their lives'' on the Gulf Coast.
 ''As long as it takes'' may not be as long as a lot of people expect. Consider what happened after a major earthquake struck Kobe, Japan, in 1995. Many people, in Japan and abroad, thought that the port city would take years, even decades, to recover. The quake, which had a magnitude of 6.9, was the worst ever to hit a modern city. It wrecked the port; destroyed 100,000 buildings and severely damaged many more; ruptured the water, sewer, electrical and gas systems; and destroyed roads and rail lines. 
Yet despite the catastrophe, Kobe's economy recovered rapidly. Only a year after the quake, Kobe was handling as many imports as before the disaster, and exports had recovered to 83 percent of their previous level. Within 18 months, manufacturing was at 98 percent of where it would have been without the quake.
 ''Economic output was back in 15 months and could have been sooner if there hadn't been so many disputes about land use,'' the economist George Horwich said in an interview. Kobe's resilience, he argued, was not an aberration. Modern economies bounce back quickly from natural disasters because they depend not on physical assets but on human expertise. People quickly figure out how to replace damaged operations, either by rebuilding or finding substitutes.
 ''Destroy any amount of physical capital, but leave behind a critical number of knowledgeable human beings whose brains still house the culture and technology of a dynamic economy, and the physical capital will tend to re-emerge almost spontaneously,'' Professor Horwich, now retired from Purdue, wrote in ''Economic Lessons of the Kobe Earthquake,'' published in the April 2000 issue of Economic Development and Cultural Change.
 Rebuilding lives and communities does not, however, mean returning the economy to exactly where it was before. Rather, a disaster tends to accelerate economic changes that are already under way. That is because some physical assets, whether outdated manufacturing plants or homes in declining areas, are worth keeping only because they were paid for long ago and cost next to nothing to use. They would cost more to replace than they are worth.
 ''Any modern economy is normally in constant flux,'' Professor Horwich wrote. ''As such, the destruction of physical assets is a form of accelerated depreciation that hastens the adoption of new technologies and varieties of investment.'' In Kobe, the plastic shoe industry never came back after the earthquake, and air freight expanded at the expense of the port.
 The more flexibility businesses and individuals have, the more adaptable they can be and the faster recovery can take place. That is one reason money helps more than in-kind gifts. Donors, Professor Horwich said, ''can only guess what recipients want most'' and often provide gifts of clothes or food in forms that are hard to use.
 The same principle applies to the rebuilding commitments now being made in Washington. The final cost of Katrina relief is widely expected to top $100 billion, and the Louisiana Congressional delegation has submitted its own $250 billion wish list.
 Those are very big numbers. With $100 billion, the government could give every man, woman and child from New Orleans a check for $200,000. Expanding these payments to the entire metropolitan area would allow a generous $75,000 per resident.
 Yet nobody expects the displaced residents of New Orleans to see anything close to those potentially life-changing amounts. Federal spending is aimed not at ''rebuilding lives'' but at ''rebuilding communities,'' primarily by spending a lot of money on construction projects and on government services.
 But, the Harvard economist Edward L. Glaeser argues, such an approach is backward. ''If there is disaster insurance, then it is, presumably, the people of New Orleans who are insured, not the place itself,'' he writes in an article for The Economists' Voice, an online journal (www.bepress.com/ev). The article is called ''Should the Government Rebuild New Orleans, or Just Give Residents Checks?'' He favors the latter.
 His basic argument is that individuals are better at picking where to live and work than any centralized government planner. Evacuees know their own wishes, skills and opportunities.
 Besides, ''if you're going to bet on place,'' Professor Glaeser said in an interview, ''New Orleans is probably not the right place to be betting on. It's a mid-19th-century city built around a tremendous water-based advantage of the mid-19th century, not around any kind of advantage of use in the 21st century.''
 The port is economically vibrant, but it employs fewer than 7,500 people, most of them highly skilled. The oil and gas industries employ even fewer local residents. Trying to restore the city to its prehurricane state does not offer its displaced residents, particularly the poor, much hope for a better life. 
 ''It's just crazy to think that the right insurance mechanism is to spend hundreds of billions of dollars on public infrastructure,'' Professor Glaeser said in the interview.
 In the article, he said: ''There is a big difference between rebuilding lives and rebuilding communities. Given limited funds, the two objectives may well conflict.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); WEATHER (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); TRENDS (67%); DEPRECIATION (64%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Economic Conditions and Trends; Earthquakes; Katrina (Storm); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

PERSON: Virginia Postrel; Edward L (Prof) Glaeser

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) KINKI, JAPAN (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) Kobe (Japan); New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2005



118 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: Shares Fall on News of Slower Growth in Service Industries

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks fell sharply yesterday after slower growth was reported in service industries, the biggest part of the economy.
 Disappointing profit results from ADC Telecommunications, a maker of networking equipment, and Mercury Interactive, a software developer, contributed to the slide. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index erased its gain for the year. 
 ''We have what could be the risk of an economic slowdown,'' said Hans Olsen, who oversees $2 billion as chief investment officer at Bingham Legg Advisers in Boston. Earnings announcements over the next several weeks ''could make for a very tough October in the U.S. stock market,'' he said.
 The S.&P. 500 lost 18.08 points, or 1.5 percent, to 1196.39; it is down 1.3 percent this year. The Nasdaq composite index retreated 36.34 points, or 1.7 percent, to 2,103.02. Both had their biggest one-day drop in almost six months. The Dow Jones industrial average retreated 123.75, or 1.2 percent, to 10,317.36.
 More than four stocks declined for every one that rose on the New York Stock Exchange. Almost 1.92 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, 29 percent more than the three-month average.
 The Institute for Supply Management said yesterday that its measure of financial services, retail trade and other nonmanufacturing businesses expanded last month at the slowest pace in more than two years. The institute said Monday that manufacturing expanded faster than anticipated in September.
 ADC and Mercury Interactive had the two biggest losses in the S.&P 500. ADC slumped $3.06, or 14 percent, to $19.61 after the company cut its fourth-quarter profit and sales forecast a second time. For the period ending Oct. 31, profit from continuing operations will be as much as 19 cents a share on revenue of up to $300 million, ADC said.
 Mercury Interactive, a maker of software to test computer programs, fell $5.29, or 14 percent, to $31.61. The company said third-quarter profit was ''at or slightly below the low end'' of its July 28 earnings-per-share forecast of 17 to 22 cents. Analysts have been reducing their estimates for most nonenergy industries since Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.
 Third-quarter earnings predictions for 8 of 10 industry groups in the S.&P. 500 were cut in the four weeks ended Sept. 30, according to a Bloomberg analysis of data from Thomson Financial. Estimates for producers of raw materials, financials and companies that sell primarily to consumers fell the most.
 Procter & Gamble and Clorox also gave disappointing profit forecasts this week. Alcoa will be the first member of the Dow average to report earnings on Monday.
 Comments on Tuesday from two Federal Reserve governors also weighed on stocks. Anthony M. Santomero, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, said the central bank must continue raising interest rates to keep inflation in check. Richard W. Fisher, president of the Dallas Fed, said inflation was near the upper limit of a tolerable range.
 Prices of Treasury securities rose yesterday. The price of the benchmark 10-year note rose 7/32, to 99 8/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.34 percent, from 4.37 on Tuesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (77%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (77%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (65%); PUBLIC DEBT (61%); CENTRAL BANKS (61%); INTEREST RATES (59%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Credit; Interest Rates; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (67%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (61%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (60%); ADC TELECOMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); ALCOA INC (50%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (50%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (50%); AA (NYSE) (50%); PGP (PAR) (50%); PG (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (60%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (50%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (50%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (50%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2005



119 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 2; Thursday Styles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1520 words

HEADLINE: Over the Shoulder, Over The Top

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA

 BODY:
''How did this happen?'' Nina Collins asked as she settled down to a lunch of miso soup and salad in downtown Manhattan last week. ''When did we get to this place where we spend $1,000 on a bag?'' 
 The question was rhetorical. Not long ago Ms. Collins herself arrived at that place, succumbing, she confided a bit sheepishly, to a yen for a handbag styled like a saddle bag from Mulberry, a British luxury brand in high demand at stores like Barneys New York and Bergdorf Goodman. The price, about $1,200, struck her as an affront to reason. But she had to have it.
In buying the handbag Ms. Collins, a literary agent, joined an ever widening circle of status-driven, selectively acquisitive consumers whose purchasing habits have buoyed the luxury market this year -- steeper gas prices, inflation and a weakened dollar be damned. A sense of optimism, which industry executives and analysts say is being fueled by a strong stock market and a desire to trade up without regard to price hikes of 20 to 35 percent over a year ago, has propelled shoppers to stores in ever greater numbers. 
 In their pursuit of the season's most coveted bags, many are giving common sense the slip, parting with, say, $975 for a best seller like the Marc Jacobs Sofia bag, which which last fall commanded $895, or $1,445 for a leather Prada ''bowler'' bag that, a few seasons back, cost $940 or $990 for similar models. Shoppers' infatuation with handbags has lent that category significant clout, to the point, retailers and industry analysts say, that bags have supplanted shoes, jeans and even jewelry as consumers' choice signifier of affluence, social standing and hipness. Never mind that some models, in the battered and fringed styles now popular, look as though they belonged to a tramp. 
 ''It seems that each year what we're seeing in the women's fashion luxury market there has been a migration from one category to the next,'' said Marshal Cohen, the chief retail analyst for the NPD Group, a market research firm in Port Washington, N.Y. ''A few years ago it was shoes. Last year it was jeans. This is the year of the handbag.'' 
 Handbag sales, which were $5.34 billion in 2003, were projected to climb 8 percent for 2004, the latest figure available from Accessories Magazine, a trade monthly. Women who bought bags last year spent on average only $40 to $65, according to NPD. Ultra-luxury designer bags -- from $650 to about $15,000, which account for an estimated 5 percent of the market -- are important because the designs invariably filter down, setting the trends for the mass market. 
 One reason for the rise of these bags is that the rest of fashion has moved toward a more dressed-down look, so that even jeans may be appropriate for a dinner party. A four-figure bag imparts the corrective message: I am not a graduate student. ''You can go out with blue jeans and cowboy boots, and that high-priced bag makes it all O.K.,'' said Cece Cord, a social figure in New York who sells her crocodile handbags at Bergdorf Goodman. ''A bag is sort of like a portable house. It represents you.''
 Luxury analysts say the new handbag aficionados aren't necessarily middle-aged or rich, and that some may defer other purchases in order to splurge. ''Bags are selling to women in a wider age range than we've ever seen before,'' said Dana Telsey, a retail analyst with Bear, Stearns, citing customers from their 20's to their 60's and 70's. The youngest are willing to make a tradeoff, Ms. Telsey said. ''Maybe it's their lunches. Or maybe it's their living quarters. They'd rather wear their paycheck.''
 Pamela N. Danziger, the president of Unity Marketing, a consulting firm specializing in the luxury market, maintained that the majority of women buying luxury bags tend to be younger than 40 and to earn from $50,000 to $75,000 a year, or in rarer cases just over $100,000. ''Those women are the most likely to be extravagant,'' said Ms. Danziger, the author of ''Why People Buy Things They Don't Need'' (Dearborn Trade, 2004). The tend to sacrifice vacations, restaurant dinners and other designer fashion in favor of a luxury bag. ''They are the consumers who have something to prove,'' she said. 
 Even when they know better. ''Do we really need another bag? No,'' said Gillian Miniter, who runs a small jewelry business from her home in New York and is married to an investment banker. Recently, Ms. Miniter, 37, splurged $3,500 for a crescent-shaped Hermes bag for reasons she is hard-pressed to explain. ''It's almost like how you feel when you buy a piece of jewelry or something that just speaks to you, and when it speaks to you have to have it,'' she said. 
 The ubiquity of clutches, totes, oversized carryalls and weekend bags on designers' runways, on store shelves, in magazine ads, on the arms of celebrities and on city streets is propelling the trend. Open any fashion glossy this season, and there are pages upon pages of ads for bags, more than in recent seasons, enhancing the perception that a bag is the fashion accessory most worth having.
 ''Who is not doing a bag line these days?'' asked Ed Burstell, the senior vice president and general merchandise manager of Bergdorf Goodman, citing designers like Zac Posen, Narciso Rodriguez and Alexander McQueen as all having recently joined the fray. ''There are a lot more people in the game this year,'' Mr. Burstell noted, and that ratchets up the competition to turn out ''a more intriguing product that commands a price, no matter what.'' 
 In department stores, handbag departments that a year ago occupied no more than a few counters of real estate, have muscled their way into full rooms, or in some cases, a significant part of the main floor selling space. Last year Bergdorf Goodman expanded its primary selling area for handbags from one to two large rooms. In 2002, as part of a main floor renovation, Barneys New York likewise substantially increased its space for bags. 
 Wayne Mahler, the fashion coordinator for the Linda Dresner boutiques in New York City and Birmingham, Mich., said that his customers are buying fine European-made bags that are up, despite price hikes attributed in large part, to the strength of the euro.
 ''For some women, finding the right bag is as important as oxygen,'' he said. Like other retailers interviewed, Mr. Mahler fielded hundreds of calls last season for the increasingly elusive Paddington bag, a pliant , hardware-embellished satchel made by Chloe .''It was cuckoo,'' he recalled. ''We had people weeping on the phone, pleading: 'This is really important to me. Isn't there something you can do?''' 
 In contrast to some past years, there is no single ''It'' bag that seemingly everyone wants. Demand is more diffuse, encompassing a varied array of fall hits like an oversized black velvet reticule from Marc Jacobs ($2,900), a countrified fringed suede carryall from Hogan ($995), a subtly weatheredlooking Lanvin shoulder bag suspended from a chunky chain (about $1,200), and the Fendi Spy bag, a multi pocketed style available this fall in tulle ($4,830).
 Paradoxically, even such studiously shabby materials as denim -- which has found its way into one of the year's most sought after bags, the so-called Speedy from Louis Vuitton, ($1,280), a denim carryall emblazoned with the company's ''LV'' mongram -- seem at times to elevate a bag's' worth in the eyes of luxury shoppers. 
 Never mind that a bag's most distinctive features -- a profusion of pockets, padlocks and chains -- are readily knocked off at every level of the market; that the soaring costs of materials and labor have forced many European designers to make their bags or bag components in China or Turkey. 
 Robust sales of expensive handbags are working their magic on the bottom lines of the world's leading luxury conglomerates. Both PPR, whose Gucci Group elevated a bag and shoe designer to its chief women's wear designer, and LVMH Moet Hennessey Louis Vuitton, whose cash cow is Louis Vuitton, with its famous monogramed handbags, reported strong surges in profits for the first half of the year. Ms. Telsey of Bear, Stearns attributed the demand for luxury goods to ''a feel-good factor in the macro environment,'' that is, a robust stock market. 
 Carol Bell, 36, a Miami resident and divorced mother of two, is unfazed by the soaring cost of handbags. Ms. Bell, who earns about $150,000 a year as the co-president of a public relations firm, recently acquired a Mulberry tote and has her eye on a monogrammed Goyard canvas bag, a rarefied item that has yet to infiltrate such affluent Miami enclaves as Coral Gables or South Beach. ''I'm not extremely wealthy,'' she said, ''but when something is appealing to me I don't put a price on it. ''
 Ms. Bell, whose workday may stretch to 18 hours, makes up for the drudgery by buying a bag. ''At the end of the day, when I leave my office, and throw my keys inside it, it gives me such a sense of reward, '' she said. ''I know the price of fuel is up, but if I'm trying to decide between a tank of gas or a great designer bag, I'm going to walk and carry that bag.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: GRAB BAG -- A Paddington bag from Chloe is one of the coveted accessories of fall. (Photo by Lars Klove for The New York Times)(pg. G1)
HOLDING AREA -- Carol Bell, left, and her designer bags filling a room in her apartment in Miami Beach. Gillian Miniter, right, has a similar set up in her home in Manhattan. (Photo by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times)
(Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)
MARC JACOBS -- A quilted bag with a chain strap. (Photo by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)
MULBERRY -- A British luxury item, styled like a saddlebag, from Barneys New York.
NANCY GONZALEZ -- A croc Nancy bag, from Bergdorf Goodman.
GOYARD -- From Barneys New York.
 HOGAN -- A green fringe shopper. (Photographs by Lars Klove for The New York Times)(pg. G9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (89%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); FASHION DESIGNERS (86%); TRENDS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (76%); CLOTHING LABELS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); RETAILERS (75%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); US DOLLAR (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); LITERARY AGENTS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MARC JACOBS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); MIAMI, FL, USA (66%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2005



120 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-15

Iraqi Parliament Cancels Rule Change for Election
Under strong pressure from the United Nations, Iraq's National Assembly voted to cancel a last-minute rule change that would have made it almost impossible for Iraq's new constitution to fail in the upcoming national referendum. A1

An unnamed senior British official was quoted accusing Iran of supplying explosive technology used in lethal attacks on British troops in southern Iraq and said there was ''evidence'' that Iran was also in contact with Sunni Muslim insurgents fighting in Iraq. A10

U.S. Warns Nicaraguans
Robert B. Zoellick, the deputy secretary of state, warned business leaders in Nicaragua that they should not continue supporting the political parties that are trying to unseat Nicaragua's president if they hoped to continue doing business with the United States. A13

Mexican Arrested in Drug Ring
Federal prosecutors in New York announced that a man described as a ''Mexican cocaine kingpin'' was arrested while trying to cross the border from Mexico into Arizona. A7

More Trials Likely in Bosnia
The war crimes tribunal in Bosnia-Herzegovina said it expects more prosecutions in connection with the 1995 Srebrenica massacre after a government commission announced the names of more than 17,000 Bosnian Serb soldiers, police officers and officials involved in the killings. A15

Sharon and Abbas to Meet
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and the Palestinian leader, Mahmoud Abbas, plan to meet next week for talks on advancing peace efforts after Israel's recent withdrawal from the Gaza Strip, both sides said. A7

NATIONAL A16-35

Supreme Court Hears CaseOn Assisted Suicide Law
The question of assisted suicide reached the Supreme Court for the second time in eight years, although the profound issues of professional ethics and personal autonomy that have animated the national debate remained outside the courtroom. A1

Bush Nominee Under Scrutiny
A growing chorus of conservatives have cast skepticism on President Bush's selection of Harriet E. Miers for the Supreme Court, expressing questions on her conservatism. A1

Analyst Admits Sharing Secrets
A senior Defense Department analyst admitted that he shared secret military information with two pro-Israeli lobbyists and an Israeli official in an effort to create a ''backchannel'' to the Bush administration on Middle East policy. A21

F.B.I. Expands Inquiry on Agent
The F.B.I. has expanded a New Jersey espionage investigation in an effort to determine whether one of its own agents, charged last month with spying for the Philippines, may have also gotten improper access to classified information while working in Vice President Cheney's office. A32

Proposed Tax Breaks
Proposals to use tax breaks for rebuilding areas devastated by the recent hurricanes may provide only limited help to people and businesses that suffered actual losses, according to many economists. A35

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Deadly Flu Virus Reconstructed
The 1918 influenza virus has been reconstructed and found to be a bird flu that jumped directly to humans, two teams of scientists announced. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Test Suggests Tour BoatWas Overloaded
A test by the National Transportation Safety Board suggested that the Ethan Allen, the tour boat that fatally capsized in Lake George, could not safely carry anywhere near the 48 passengers for which it had been licensed by New York State. B1

Rell Considers Run
Gov. M. Jodi Rell of Connecticut said that within the next week or so she would formally announce whether she would run for a full four-year term in 2006. B1

FASHION B11

SPORTSTHURSDAY D1-7

Angels Even Series
The Los Angeles Angels defeated the Yankees, 5-3, to even the best-of-five division series at one game each. An error by Yankee third baseman Alex Rodriguez helped the Angels tie the game in the sixth inning, and a throwing error by starting pitcher Chien-Ming Wang in the seventh helped put the Angels ahead to stay. D1

HOUSE & HOME F1-14

THURSDAY STYLES G1-12

ARTS E1-12

OBITUARIES B10

Harold Leventhal
The internationally renowned folk music promoter, he was 86. B10

BUSINESS DAY C1-17

Stocks Fall on Fuel Concerns
Worries that high energy costs might be starting to hurt the economy by pushing up prices more broadly and squeezing corporate profits led to the biggest drop on Wall Street in 15 months, as airlines and shippers said they were increasing fares and cutting routes in response to the rising cost of fuel. C1

Port's Biggest Obstacle
More than a month after Katrina struck New Orleans, as much as 80 percent of the port's operations remain shut, because many of the hundreds of workers needed to run the port are living in other states. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A36-37

Editorials: The next Alan Greenspan; 10 years and counting; Austria's shoddy gambit on Turkey; net national happiness.

Columns: David Brooks, Bob Herbert.

Bridge E4
Crossword E4
TV Listings E11
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (88%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); LOBBYING (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TAX LAW (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); ETHICS (78%); GENOCIDE (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ESPIONAGE (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); ARRESTS (76%); WAR CRIMES (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); COCAINE (68%); APPEALS (68%); ASSISTED SUICIDE (66%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (65%); SUICIDE (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (54%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); NICARAGUA (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2005



121 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1507 words

HEADLINE: As Illegal Workers Hit Suburbs, Politicians Scramble to Respond

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

 BODY:
Suburban politicians once had to master a small but demanding catalog of local issues. Taxes, garbage, crime and schools were always the big ones. But recently a volatile new issue has been showing up on the local meet-the-candidate circuit, and it is pretty much the opposite of the familiar and the local. It is illegal immigration.
 Though municipal officials have no statutory control over immigration, a rising population of illegal immigrants in suburban communities -- from Farmingville, N.Y., to Danbury, Conn.; Herndon, Va., to suburban South Salt Lake City, Utah -- has prompted some of those officials to attack the problem with the limited means at their disposal. In the process, they have won and lost political support; grappled with issues beyond their usual bailiwicks; and, whether intentionally or not, begun incorporating immigration into the calculus of local politics.
 Steve Levy, the Democratic county executive in Suffolk County, sent police officers to help shut down single-family houses crammed with 40 and 50 immigrant workers in Farmingville, a hamlet that has become synonymous with the conflict between day laborers and suburban homeowners. His move rankled many Hispanics, some of whom have labeled him as racist, but his popularity in mostly white Suffolk County has risen. 
 Mark Boughton, the moderate Republican mayor of Danbury, Conn., set off a fiery debate this year by calling for state troopers to enforce immigration laws, and now finds himself labeled as anti-immigrant and embraced by some conservative Web sites.
 Michael O'Reilly, the mayor of Herndon, a Washington suburb, who took a different tack -- proposing to open a hiring hall for day laborers in his town -- drew such a flood of angry calls from immigration opponents (stoked by a national radio talk show host in Sacramento) that the City Hall switchboard was shut down for four days.
 ''A little community like Herndon, with a part-time mayor -- we never signed on to tackle national issues like immigration,'' Mr. O'Reilly said. ''This is way above our pay grade.''
 Some see it as an absence of coherent federal immigration policy in addressing the reality of an estimated 10 million illegal immigrants now living in the United States -- the majority of them in its suburbs. In that view, something, anything, seems destined to fill the gap.
 ''Immigration has become a local issue because, at least from their perspective, local governments feel there is no federal policy in place,'' said Audrey Singer, immigration fellow at the nonpartisan Brookings Institution. ''Local officials don't want to be responsible, but they have to respond to local concerns.''
 The scramble for solutions reflects a major shift in immigration patterns during the last decade, she said. Since 2000, the number of immigrants living in suburbs, legally or illegally, has surpassed the number in cities, 52 percent to 48 percent.
 Deborah Meyers, a senior policy analyst for the Migration Policy Institute, another nonpartisan group, said that as the new gateways of immigration, American suburbs ''are communities that are having to address a rather sudden and significant influx of newcomers, and they have no experience with this.''
 The illegal newcomers have attracted notice in the high-cost suburbs primarily by overcrowding single-family houses, which neighbors then complain become eyesores, and by assembling for day laborers' jobs in parking lots and on street corners.
 The local response has been somewhat like the suburbs themselves: decentralized; somewhat haphazard; self-contained; aimed at enforcing a set of ''quality of life'' standards that are defined differently from place to place. In Silver Spring, Md., local officials support a hiring hall for immigrant workers. In neighboring Langley Park, also home to many immigrants, they do not.
 Jupiter, Fla., and Ford County, Kan., are known to welcome new immigrant workers. Bowling Green, Ky., and Freehold, N.J., are not.
 Some towns have cracked down on immigrants obliquely, by enforcing building codes against overcrowding. Others have instituted new codes limiting the square footage of driveway pavement, for example, or forbidding the use of rooms other than bedrooms for sleeping.
 ''How is it going? It's going not well,'' said Mr. Boughton, the Danbury mayor, whose request for immigration-enforcement powers was denied, but who sends inspectors to count the cars parked in front of the houses in immigrant neighborhoods and issue various summonses. ''The federal government continues to avoid this issue, and we can only do so much.''
 The reasons for the perceived paralysis of national immigration policy are many, experts say: post-9/11 antiterror politics; deep conflicts within the ranks of both the Republican and Democratic Parties; and, not least, ambivalence among the general public, which opposes illegal immigration in principle but generally benefits from the low-cost services of those illegal workers -- who mow lawns, clear tables, pack meat and dig holes for swimming pools.
 And immigration-policy experts cite bad luck. Immigration reform was relatively high on President Bush's agenda before Sept. 11. It was overshadowed for the next three and a half years, then seemed to be re-emerging during the first year of Mr. Bush's second term. Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's chief strategist, was designated earlier this year to coordinate efforts to secure Congressional support of a ''guest worker'' bill that would ostensibly regulate the flow of otherwise illegal immigrants. ''But then comes Katrina,'' said Ms. Meyers of the Migration Policy Institute. ''Rove is now busy with that, I understand.''
 Local and state politics seems to be filling the gap. During a nasty Republican primary last month in the Suffolk County town of Brookhaven, which includes Farmingville, the two candidates for town supervisor vied to be known as the more hard-line anti-illegal-immigrant candidate.
 One accepted the endorsement of a local organization that has labeled illegal immigrants terrorists. The other mailed a campaign flier that claimed ''illegal immigrants are taking over our community'' and ''eroding our quality of life.''
 The slightly less strident candidate, Edward Hennessey, won that race, but the campaign raised the fear that immigrants will become scapegoats. ''It's scary how readily some will attack immigrants, demonizing them, just to get votes,'' said Nadia Marin-Molina, director of the Workplace Project, a Long Island-based immigrant-advocate group. 
 As a campaign issue, immigration is ''an emotional issue,'' said Mark DiCamillo, a California pollster. ''When politicians are looking for issues that can trump the top issues -- education, the economy and the budget -- it's usually in the social issue area, like gay marriage, abortion or illegal immigration.''
 It is a highly malleable one, too, he said. At the start of the 1994 California race for governor, for example, illegal immigration ranked low on the list of voters' concerns, Mr. DiCamillo said. But after the Republican candidate, Pete Wilson, tied his campaign closely to his support of Proposition 187, a ballot initiative that would have denied public services to illegal immigrants, Mr. DiCamillo said, ''exit polls showed that the No. 1 reason people voted for Wilson was that he would be tough on illegal immigration.''
 Recently, the former Virginia attorney general, Jerry W. Kilgore, a Republican, injected illegal immigration as an issue into his tightly contested race for governor against Timothy M. Kaine, the Democratic lieutenant governor.
 Several days after the switchboard at the Herndon Town Hall was flooded by opponents of the proposed hiring hall, Mr. Kilgore announced his opposition to the site, asking: ''Will we reward illegal behavior with hard-earned dollars from law-abiding citizens? I say the answer to this question should be an easy one. No.''
 Mr. Kilgore subsequently made controversial remarks linking illegal immigrants, the MS-13 street gang and Al Qaeda.
 In Tennessee, State Representative Marsha Blackburn of Brentwood, a Nashville suburb, won election to the House of Representatives in 2002 by focusing heavily on the rising cost of social services in her state and her contention that illegal immigrants were the cause.
 ''The debate itself will be contentious and convoluted, and in the end, what people are debating is much more about how they feel than about what they can actually do about illegal immigration,'' said Steven Camarota, director of research at the Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington-based group that generally supports a more-restrictive immigration policy. ''What you have as a result is incoherence.''
 In Herndon, meanwhile, since town officials approved the construction of a hiring hall, supervisors in neighboring Loudoun County, Va., have notified them that the proposed site straddles Loudoun's border, and therefore requires its approval and that until further notice the short answer is to be no.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Day laborers seeking work in Danbury, Conn., where the mayor, Mark Boughton, said, ''The federal government continues to avoid this issue, and we can only do so much.'' (Photo by Douglas Healey/Associated Press)(pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); SUBURBS (93%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); POLITICS (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); REFUGEES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); COUNTIES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); CITIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Aliens; Foreign Labor; Suburbs; Hispanic-Americans; Immigration and Refugees; Immigration and Refugees; Immigration and Refugees

PERSON: Paul Vitello; Steve (County Exec) Levy; Mark (Mayor) Boughton; Michael (Mayor) O'Reilly

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); UTAH, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Farmingville (NY); Danbury (Conn); Herndon (Va)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2005



122 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Says Bumper Crop Justifies Limits on Aid

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: ONJUNG-RI, North Korea, Sept. 29 

 BODY:
Against a yellow sea of ripening rice, red flags flapped smartly in the autumn breeze on a recent day, apparently signaling that collective farm work brigades were harvesting a bumper crop in this fertile corner of North Korea.
 ''All people in the D.P.R.K. are now out to give helping hands to the farmers in harvesting,'' the Korean Central News Agency said of the fall harvest campaigns around this nation, formally called the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. After a decade of reliance on food aid, Kim Jong Il, the North Korean leader, had declared 2005 to be ''The Year of Agriculture.''
 But the trundling tractors, hard-working peasants and marching soldiers with harvest baskets on their backs could also have been staged to impress two busloads of journalists who sped along a highway, heading toward South Korea. Separated by a six-foot-high fence and blanket restrictions against interviews with farmers, the visitors had no way of getting a closer view of food supplies in this secretive society. 
 After mass mobilizations of workers in June to plant rice, North Korean officials now say that their overall crop is up 10 percent over last year's yield. With memories fading of the famine that killed as much as 10 percent of North Korea's population of 22 million in the 1990's, according to estimates by international organizations, officials now cite this year's bumper rice and corn crops to justify new restrictions on foreign aid and foreign aid workers. Famine death tolls range from 1 million to 2.5 million, a figure cited at a recent conference on North Korea in Washington by Andrew S. Natsios, administrator of the United States Agency for International Development and the author of the book ''The Great North Korean Famine.''
 By the end of this year, the World Food Program of the United Nations, source of 90 percent of the aid here, is under orders from North Korea to shift from direct food to development aid. In addition, new government policies dictate that all foreign personnel from the 12 private aid groups operating from Pyongyang, the capital, are to leave the country.
 ''Dec. 31 is the deadline for all internationals to have left,'' Padraig O Ruairc, country director for Concern Worldwide, a private group based in Ireland that works on water, sanitation and midwife projects in North Korea, said by telephone from Pyongyang. Aid groups, he added, ''are getting refusals for their field visits.''
 ''There are a lot of indications that this is serious,'' he said.
 North Korean officials say they want private aid projects to continue, but they want resident foreigners to leave, returning occasionally to monitor the work. Under those conditions, Mr. O Ruairc and Jerome Bossuet, country director for Triangle Generation Humanitaire, a French group, predicted that most aid groups would wind up their projects and leave.
 Oversight by resident foreigners is essential for aid programs to continue, said David Hill, North Korea representative for the European Commission Humanitarian Office. Speaking from Pyongyang, he estimated that his $21 million annual budget provided most of the funds for nine of the private groups here.
 ''Our prime requirement is that our partners are present on the ground, permanently,'' Mr. Hill said. Noting that talks are under way with North Korean officials to save the aid programs, he added, ''Brussels is not going to shift on permanent residency.''
 Richard Ragan, an American who runs the World Food Program in North Korea, faces a different challenge: repackaging a program that helps to feed 6.5 million people as development aid.
 Until now, the agency has avoided describing its aid here as development assistance, largely out of fear of alienating its largest supporter, the United States.
 Now, to maintain this flow of food deemed vital to the most vulnerable one third of North Korea's population, United Nations officials are saying it was development aid all along. Mr. Ragan said he was now engaged in ''a repackaging exercise.''
 ''We have been dressing up development aid as humanitarian aid,'' Mr. Ragan said by telephone from Pyongyang. ''There has been a reluctance by the donors to say they are doing development assistance.''
 His food-for-work program helps to build infrastructure, he said. His 19 ''food enrichment'' factories employ 2,100 people, largely women, making noodles, biscuits and drinks made from a blend of corn and soy beans. The program sponsors lectures by nutritionists.
 ''Out of the half a million tons we bring into the country every year, 75 percent is for classical development assistance,'' he said of food rations paid to workers on infrastructure projects. ''Anytime you are in a situation with a chronic food problem for a number of years, the humanitarian and the developmental aspect blur.''
 After a year of hints, North Korea's policy changes were adopted at the cabinet level last summer, Mr. Ragan said. With talks continuing with North Korean officials and with the three primary donor nations, the United States, Japan and South Korea, he said he did not know what his program would look like next spring.
 ''After 10 years, the North Koreans were concerned about creating a culture of dependency,'' he said. But, he added, if the crop is up by 10 percent, North Korea will still be short 700,000 to 800,000 tons.
 In New York, Jan Egeland, the United Nations emergency relief coordinator told reporters on Sept. 23, ''Abruptly halting humanitarian assistance programs at the end of the year would be potentially disastrous for the millions of people who benefit from the humanitarian assistance including food and medicines provided by the United Nations.''
 His organization estimates that 7 percent of North Koreans are starving, and 37 percent are chronically malnourished. According to United Nations statistics, 40 percent of the children suffer from stunted growth, and 20 percent are underweight. The average 7-year-old boy is 7 inches shorter and 20 pounds lighter than his South Korean counterpart.
 North Korea's deputy foreign minister, Choe Su Hon, said at a news conference in New York on Sept. 22 that because of his nation's ''very good farming,'' the situation had improved ''to a great extent.''
 Another reason for the termination, he said, is the attempt by 13 countries, especially the United States, ''to politicize the humanitarian assistance'' by linking it to human rights.
 Jay Lefkowitz, the American envoy on human rights in North Korea, suggested on Sept. 8 that the Bush administration would review whether to link food aid to changes in North Korea's human rights practices.
 A private bipartisan group that is considered the leading American group on the issue, the U.S. Committee for Human Rights in North Korea, recently issued a report, ''Hunger and Human Rights: The Politics of Famine in North Korea,'' that said ''up to half of aid deliveries do not reach their intended recipients,'' but instead might be diverted for sale.
 At the Washington conference, Mr. Natsios said continued American aid was contingent on the presence of the World Food Program staff in North Korea. ''If the World Food Program leaves, we're leaving,'' he said. 
 The shift from food to development aid comes as North Korea's government grapples with a politically powerful anniversary 10 years after the 1995 floods that set off the years of famine, said Stephen W. Linton, chairman of Eugene Bell Foundation, a Washington-based private group that aids 44 North Korean hospitals and tuberculosis centers.
 ''I have never seen any evidence that North Korea wanted to become a permanent ward of the international community,'' Mr. Linton said by telephone. Noting that the foreign aid groups pay a price by agreeing to only have non-Korean speakers in Pyongyang, he said, ''I would much rather send in Korean-speaking delegations than have someone living in Pyongyang who makes trips to the countryside with an official interpreter.''
 The attention given to the fate of a dozen European aid groups, said Mr. Linton, a Korean-speaker, overshadows ''the absolute boom'' in private aid from South Korea. The South Koreans, he said, will have a much greater and more fundamental impact on North Korea ''than foreigners who run around in S.U.V.'s and do not speak the language.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: North Koreans were mobilized to help farmers plant rice this summer. North Korean officials now say increases in the rice and corn crops have led them to put new restrictions on foreign aid and aid workers. (Photo by Gerald Bourke/World Food Program)Map of North Korea highlighting Onjung-ri: A collective farm in Onjung-ri contributed to this year's harvest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARM LABOR (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); AGRICULTURE (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FAMINE (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); RICE FARMING (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (85%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); TRENDS (76%); ARMED FORCES (73%); CORN FARMING (73%); WRITERS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (63%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Foreign Aid ; Famine; Economic Conditions and Trends; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (59%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%) United States Agency for International Development

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (57%) James Brooke; Andrew S Natsios

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (90%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%) North Korea; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2005



123 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Pillars of Cultural Capital 

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Eleven days ago, I wrote a column on the growing unfairness of American life. The column was about the economic and social stratifications that are setting in as the information age matures. Highly educated parents pass their advantages down to their children, while the children of less-educated parents fall further behind.
 As a result, life prospects are wildly unequal. As Ross Douthat notes in The Atlantic Monthly, a child growing up in a family earning over $90,000 has a 1 in 2 chance of getting a college degree by age 24; a child in a family earning $35,000 to $61,000 has a 1 in 10 chance; a child in a family earning under $35,000 has a 1 in 17 chance. 
 The main problem is not that poor students can't afford college. This country has oceans of financial aid sloshing around. As William Bowen, Martin Kurzweil and Eugene Tobin note in their book, ''Equity and Excellence in American Higher Education'': ''The number of students who are currently prevented from enrolling by a straightforward inability to pay is small.''
 Nor is the main problem that these poorer students don't have access to college. Over the last few decades, the share of young Americans who enter college has shot upward.
 The problem is that students who enter college often find that they are unable to thrive there. As enrollment rates have shot up, completion rates have actually drifted down. And it is students from less-educated families who are dropping out most.
 The new inequality is different from the old inequality. Today, the rich don't exploit the poor, they just outcompete them. Their crucial advantage is not that they possess financial capital, it's that they possess more cultural capital.
 Since I wrote that column, I've been inundated with letters and e-mails from people who are working to tackle this problem. The best of these efforts are directed at helping students from less-educated families accumulate what you might call the four pillars of cultural capital. 
 Academic Competence. Students are not going to be able to thrive in college if they graduate from high school doing eighth-grade work. That's why colleges and universities nationwide have decided they can't just wait for students to come to them. They are adopting high schools and creating curriculums designed to prepare students for college work. Charter schools like KIPP Academies are springing up, specializing in tough, intensive college prep for poorer kids.
 Practical Competence. Surveys show that poorer students understand the importance of college and want to attend. But many adopt a magical worldview, imagining that success will somehow come to them out of the blue. An astonishing number of students register for the SAT tests, but don't bother to show up on exam day. Students do well in high school, but don't fill out college applications because they don't feel like writing the essays.
 Colleges are now sending out student ambassadors to coach and nag other students through the mundane, day-to-day steps that lead to college admissions and success. 
 Economic confidence. Poorer students are risk-averse. Often overly intimidated by college costs, unwilling to take out student loans, too quick to leave school to get a job, they wind up underinvesting in their education.
 The great sociologist Daniel Bell suggests that the best response is to shift financial aid into federally financed savings accounts, delivered to students at birth and growing over time, to use to pay for school. Students with these nest eggs would have a greater sense of security and less of a feeling that they were sending their families over an economic precipice.
 Social Confidence. Elite schools have become bastions of privilege. Last year, there were more students at the University of Michigan from families earning over $200,000 than there were from families earning less than the national median of about $53,000. Poorer kids often feel uncomfortable at such places, and choose schools where they will fit in, even if they are not academically rigorous enough for their needs.
 Now there is a move, led by the former Princeton president, William Bowen, to give poorer kids an admissions advantage at elite universities. It's a crude step, but probably necessary, so that poorer students on campus will not feel as if they are on alien ground. 
 The forces driving cultural inequality are powerful, and maybe insurmountable. But each generation of Americans seems to be challenged in its own way to provide its children with an open field and a fair chance. This is our challenge. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (88%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (86%); POOR POPULATION (78%); CURRICULA (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); ACADEMIC TESTING (75%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (75%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%) Colleges and Universities; Dropouts; Finances; Colleges and Universities

PERSON: David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2005



124 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: Net National Happiness

 BODY:
Does the United States strike you as a happy country? July 1776, when Thomas Jefferson claimed the pursuit of happiness as a basic human right, might have been the last time that happiness was officially proposed as a national objective. But in Bhutan -- as reported in the Science Times on Tuesday -- the question of national happiness is still up for discussion, thanks to a monarch who insisted, nearly a generation ago, that gross national happiness is more important than gross national product. 
 An economic cynic may argue that a country with a gross national product as small as Bhutan's can well afford to worry about its gross national happiness, and that the best way to increase G.N.H. is by increasing G.N.P. But that is essentially an untested assertion, and there is plenty of evidence to suggest that it isn't necessarily true. Our sense of happiness is created by many things that are not easily measured in purely economic terms, including a sense of community and purpose, the amount and content of our leisure and even our sense of the environmental and ecological stability of the world around us. 
To talk about gross national happiness may sound purely pie in the sky, partly because we have been taught to believe that happiness is essentially a personal emotion, not an attribute of a community or a country. But thinking of happiness as a quotient of cultural and environmental factors might help us understand the growing disconnect between America's prosperity and Americans' sense of well-being. 
 Some sociologists worry that the effort to quantify happiness may actually hurt the pursuit of happiness. But there's another way to consider it. The world looks the way it does -- as if it were being devoured by some grievous species -- partly because of narrow economic assumptions that govern the behavior of corporations and nations. Those assumptions usually exclude, for instance, the costs of environmental, social or cultural damage. A clearer understanding of what makes humans happy -- not merely more eager consumers or more productive workers -- might help begin to reshape those assumptions in a way that has a measurable and meliorating outcome on the lives we lead and the world we live in.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); TRENDS (77%); SOCIOLOGY (77%) United States Economy; Editorials; Public Opinion; Social Conditions and Trends; United States Economy

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); BHUTAN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2005



125 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA: ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Marketing Heads Exalted, At Least Until They Roll 

BYLINE: By Julie Bosman

 BODY:
AS companies devote more attention to marketing, they are creating the elevated title of chief marketing officer to match.
 Bigger marketing budgets have led to the hiring of marketing chiefs, who usually oversee all aspects of a company's marketing, advertising and communication.
But while many marketing officers are hired to make rapid changes, they have also found the job hard to keep. According to a study released this week by the executive search firm Spencer Stuart, which surveyed 100 companies, marketing chiefs had an average tenure of 22.9 months -- compared with chief executives with an average stay of 53.8 months. Nearly half of the chief marketers surveyed had been on the job for less than a year, and 14 percent for at least three years. 
 And the turnover does not stop there. For many newly appointed marketing heads, the first order of business is to dump the company's advertising agency, often without a review. After a 17-year relationship, the Leo Burnett Agency, part of the Publicis Groupe, recently surrendered its estimated $80 million account with Morgan Stanley when Don Callahan, the firm's new head of global marketing, put the Burnett account under review. 
 After appointing Steve Wiggs as chief marketing officer earlier this year, the BB&T Corporation, a banking company, switched its advertising agency in June to Rockett, Burkhead & Winslow. 
 ''It happens because the C.M.O. comes in as a change agent,'' said Joanne Davis, president at Joanne Davis Consulting in New York. ''A lot of times the C.M.O. will say, 'If I'm here to be the miracle worker and turn something around, I have to be free to bring in all the resources I need.'''
 While the position is not new -- the first chief marketing officer dates back to the mid-1990's -- many companies are just now starting to add the post. Last month, for example, Sony appointed Andrew House, who had overseen part of the company's North American marketing efforts and led the release of the portable Sony PlayStation, to the post. The online retailer Bluefly appointed its first chief marketing officer last month after a racy TV advertisement was withdrawn from several networks.
 But in recent months, the turnover has been fast and furious. Kmart announced in September that its marketing officer, Paul Guyardo, was jumping to DirecTV. McDonald's said in August that it would replace Lawrence Light at the end of the year with Mary Dillon, the former president of Quaker Foods. In the midst of a management shuffle in September, Ford Motor appointed Hans-Olov Olsson, the president of its Volvo division, to be chief marketing officer of the parent company.
 Marketing experts attribute the job's short lifespan to several factors, including the tendency of the chief executive to have unrealistic expectations. More than any other executive, the chief marketing officer is expected to play a broader role, like being able to explain to the chief financial officer the financial aspects of marketing. And for companies that increasingly look to marketing to solve problems, the expectations can be lofty indeed. Greg Welch, a consultant at Spencer Stuart who conducted the study from March 2004 to March 2005, said an ambiguous job description often leads to problems.
 ''I think at the end of the day, there's a malalignment of expectations of what a true C.M.O. can do,'' Mr. Welch said. ''These people who are being bounced out of these jobs are quality, smart, creative, proven marketers. Either they're not giving people time to be successful, or our expectations for what they can achieve are just too herculean.''
 Rob O'Regan, the editor of the 25,000-circulation C.M.O. Magazine, said the nature of the job makes it difficult to quantify results. ''It's hard to measure some of the effectiveness of what marketing does, especially when it deals with customer loyalty and brand building,'' he said. ''It makes it hard to justify all the budgets that you're getting.''
 In the end, who has the power in the boardroom depends on the economy, said John Quelch, a professor of business administration at Harvard Business School. 
 ''Marketing always receives a little more respect during upticks in economic cycles,'' Mr. Quelch said. ''When the economic cycles go down, the finance and economics guys will get to the forefront again.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); EXECUTIVES (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (73%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (64%); INTERNET RETAILING (50%) Advertising and Marketing; Hiring and Promotion

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (91%); BB&T CORP (82%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); ROCKETT BURKHEAD & WINSLOW (54%); FORD MOTOR CO (50%)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (91%); BBT (NYSE) (82%); MS (NYSE) (55%); FORDP (PAR) (50%); F (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (82%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (82%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (82%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (50%)

PERSON: Julie Bosman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (54%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2005



126 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Online Pioneer Sets Out to Shake Up TV 

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

 BODY:
Jeremy Allaire has a long history of shaking up the established order as an Internet pioneer.
 Mr. Allaire was an architect of the evolution of Macromedia's Flash system into a video format that is now second only to Microsoft's Windows Media platform in popularity for delivering video on the Internet. Now, he has started a new company called Brightcove. 
 As with his earlier ventures, Mr. Allaire intends to shake up an industry -- this time, the world of television -- by allowing all types of video producers, from media giants to anyone who has a camcorder, put their work on the Internet and make money if anyone watches it. 
 Set in an office building at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Brightcove will offer three interrelated online services. It has tools that let television producers load their video onto its servers, arrange them into programs and display them to Internet users. It will help producers charge fees for their video, if they choose, or sell advertising on their behalf to insert into the programs. And it will broker deals between video creators and Web sites that want to display the video, arranging for the profits from such arrangements to be split any number of ways.
 Three dozen production companies are testing the production tools now, and a few have started publishing videos using the tools. By early next year, Brightcove will have the ad sales and fee systems built and will open its distribution network to nearly any video producer through a Web site. 
 ''We are trying to create a new kind of online media distribution business that has the scale of Google, an Amazon or an eBay,'' Mr. Allaire, 34, said. Some big companies, including Viacom and A&E Networks, are already experimenting with Brightcove's service.
 ''Look at what Google has done to the world of Web pages,'' said Josh Bernoff, an analyst with Forrester Research. ''Brightcove may be able to do the same for video programming.''
 Mr. Allaire has a long track record as an upstart. As a junior studying politics and economics at Macalester College in St. Paul, he led a class project that was used by the state Legislature to scuttle an airport expansion project. He became fascinated by the Internet in the early 1990's and helped The Utne Reader and Noam Chomsky, the political advocate, establish Web sites.
 Then he and his brother J.J. established the Allaire Corporation, which made ColdFusion, an early tool for making Web sites. It was used by some major sites like Autobytel.com and MySpace.com, but Mr. Allaire said he was proudest that it attracted one million smaller Web publishers.
 In 2001, Allaire was bought by Macromedia for $360 million. Mr. Allaire became Macromedia's chief technical officer and helped oversee the development of Flash, which originally was to add animation to Web sites. His work with Flash video persuaded him to start a company devoted to Net video. So Brightcove's business model does not charge video producers anything to upload their video or to create special Web pages. Instead, he hopes to make money mainly by taking a cut of the advertising revenue and fees the videos generate. (If a producer wants to distribute video with neither ads nor fees, Brightcove will charge them in proportion to how much video users watch.)
 ''We're letting producers reach 300 million people instantly with high-quality video content and they don't have to sign a contract,'' Mr. Allaire said. ''We say, 'Use it, and if you are successful we are successful.'''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeremy Allaire's new company offers technology to video producers who want to put their work on the Internet. (Photo by Michael Dwyer for The NewYork Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET VIDEO (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (77%); PUBLISHING (77%); FILM (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); TRANSPORT TERMINAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); ANIMATION (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (66%); POLITICS (65%); EXECUTIVES (60%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (50%); AIRPORTS (50%) Computers and the Internet; Recordings (Video); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Advertising and Marketing; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (91%); ALLAIRE CORP (61%); MYSPACE INC (61%); BRIGHTCOVE INC (57%); VIACOM INC (53%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%) Brightcove; Macromedia; Microsoft Corp

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (91%); BCOV (NASDAQ) (57%); VIA (NASDAQ) (53%); FORR (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (61%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (61%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (61%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (53%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

PERSON: Jeremy Allaire; Saul Hansell

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (67%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2005



127 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Ferrer's Debate Issue: Smart Move or Racially Divisive?

BYLINE: By PATRICK D. HEALY

 BODY:
Fernando Ferrer's campaign has turned tonight's debate at the Apollo Theater-- which Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg plans to skip -- into a referendum on whether the mayor cares about black New Yorkers.
 Shrewd politics, perhaps, but will this strategy pay off?
Mr. Ferrer is now attracting roughly 50 percent of the likely black vote in his campaign against Mr. Bloomberg, according to polls, and his advisers say he needs about 70 percent to win City Hall. With Mr. Ferrer struggling to find a substantive issue like jobs or education to rally black voters against the mayor, he is instead making a proxy issue out of the Apollo, a historic venue whose mere name stirs feelings of black pride. 
 Within the Ferrer camp, supporters now believe that a ''Remember the Apollo'' message could take on an Alamo-like resonance for black voters on Nov. 8, and prove to be an electoral tipping point that helps the Democrats win back City Hall for the first time in 12 years.
 ''The mayor's decision not to attend the debate is going to have a political impact that may be under the radar at first, but will definitely be tangible in the African-American community on Election Day,'' said Jennifer Cunningham, executive vice president of the health care union S.E.I.U./1199, which is organizing a voter turnout effort for Mr. Ferrer.
 Yet for other observers of New York politics, Mr. Ferrer is injecting a racially divisive element into the election that many voters -- and ostensibly both campaigns -- say they do not want to see. For five days, Mr. Ferrer and his allies have accused the mayor of disrespecting Harlem, and the campaign has run a radio ad with Al Sharpton saying Mr. Ferrer would ''never turn his back'' on blacks and faulting the mayor for not coming to ''our neighborhood.''
 ''When you say no to the Apollo, you're saying no to all black New York,'' Mr. Sharpton said separately on Monday.
 Even some critics of the mayor's decision to skip the debate say it is wrong to cast Mr. Bloomberg as insensitive to Harlem or what the Ferrer campaign says is the 40 percent unemployment rate among New York black men.
 ''The mayor hasn't been racially offensive -- in fact, he has been racially inclusive,'' said Dick Dadey, executive director of Citizens Union, a nonprofit group that has portrayed the mayor's absence from the debate as antidemocratic.
 ''Though the reasons for the mayor's decision keep changing, it's unfortunate for Ferrer and some Democrats to paint this in abstract racial terms,'' Mr. Dadey added. ''Because for us, the mayor's no-participation in this important debate is a disservice to all voters regardless of race.''
 Jef Pollock, a pollster for the Ferrer campaign, denied that the Ferrer strategy had divisive racial overtones.
 ''What's race-baiting about asking why Mike Bloomberg is refusing to debate at the Apollo?'' Mr. Pollock said. ''I think all voters are troubled that the mayor isn't willing to answer questions about his record.''
 But within the Bloomberg camp, political aides say Mr. Ferrer's strategy could backfire if it energizes white voters in parts of the city, such as Staten Island, where Mr. Sharpton is relatively unpopular. Still, Bloomberg aides acknowledge that they may have invited this line of attack when one of their supporters -- Representative Vito Fossella -- suggested that a Mayor Ferrer would be just as bad for Staten Island as was Mayor David N. Dinkins, who is black.
 Mr. Bloomberg lashed out at Mr. Ferrer in unusually strong terms yesterday and blamed the whole issue on ''the political silly season.''
 The mayor, referring to the debate, said that Mr. Ferrer would have to explain why ''he didn't do anything'' during his years as the Bronx borough president, ''and after he left office, all of a sudden the Bronx starts booming with a new borough president and a new mayor in office.''
 Mr. Bloomberg also assailed Mr. Sharpton personally -- adding to the campaign-season souring of their relationship after four years of mutual praise, when Mr. Sharpton often hailed the mayor for aiding Harlem and black New Yorkers. 
 ''He's appearing arrogant for the first time in his mayoralty, and that's surprising,'' Mr. Sharpton said in an interview yesterday. ''Many of us found him endearing for a long time because he was accessible and inclusive. Now he seems defensive, nasty, mean-spirited, and is arrogantly forcing his debate preferences on everyone else.''
 The mayor's campaign, meanwhile, sought some political cover in the dispute from the chairman of the Apollo Theater Foundation, Richard D. Parsons, who is also the head of Time Warner Inc. and a prominent black leader. In a statement that the Bloomberg campaign asked him to issue, Mr. Parsons attacked the attempt to ''portray the mayor as disrespectful of this historic venue, its heritage and the community it serves.''
 At the same time yesterday, a blame game was breaking out in the Bloomberg camp, as some former aides to the mayor expressed annoyance that his links to Mr. Parsons, and his prominent role in an Apollo fund-raiser last July, were not highlighted by the campaign until yesterday.
 There was also marked frustration among Bloomberg aides that the excuses for not attending the debate kept changing: The preference for two debates near Election Day gave way to concerns about participating in a debate on NY1 to, on Tuesday, insistence that a busy early October, including the Jewish holidays, was not the optimal time for the mayor to debate. And yesterday, Mr. Bloomberg suggested pushing debates closer to the election to avoid a clash for Yankees fans -- even though no Yankees game is scheduled tonight and his preference for an Oct. 30 debate could clash with a seventh game of the World Series. 
 Tonight, the mayor plans to attend the fall dinner of a New York gay rights group instead, and then receive an award from a Turkish-American group.
 Over at Ferrer headquarters, meanwhile, there has been delight. Mr. Ferrer's aides say they are simply trying to ''win every news cycle'' between now and two weeks before Election Day, when they hope to have the television advertising money, the celebrity campaigners (such as the Clintons), and two debates to highlight their message. Winning the news cycle, in the end, comes down to keeping Mr. Bloomberg on the defensive about the Apollo for as many days as possible.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Charles B. Rangel and Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr. with Michael R. Bloomberg for an announcement at City Hall yesterday. Mr. Rangel criticized the mayor for skipping a Harlem debate. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); REFERENDUMS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); CHARLES B RANGEL (72%); AL SHARPTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2005



128 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: Delphi Used Sham Sales To Lift Profits, Lawsuit Says 

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Delphi Corporation and several former and current senior executives engaged in a series of sham sales of worthless inventory intended to improve the company's bottom line, shareholders contend in a lawsuit filed in New York. 
 Delphi, the auto parts maker, sold ''problematic inventory'' to third parties for ''enormous sums of money,'' two state pension funds and two European funds claim in the suit. Delphi agreed to buy the material back later, while recording almost $300 million from those transactions, the complaint states. 
 ''Delphi knowingly gave the investing public a misleadingly positive impression of its financial performance by creating the appearance of income and cash flow-generating sales that were in reality disguised loans,'' according to the complaint, which was filed Friday as a consolidation of several individual suits. 
 The Securities and Exchange Commission has been investigating Delphi, which began an internal company audit after the company found it had misstated finances for at least three years. The company is considering bankruptcy as it seeks financial aid from its former parent, the General Motors Corporation, and concessions from its unions. 
 Steve Gaut, a spokesman for Delphi, said the company did not comment on court proceedings. 
 Delphi improperly booked proceeds from the sales as income to increase cash flow and earnings from 1999 to 2001, the investors claim. The transactions were described in the suit by a ''senior manager'' from Delphi, called Confidential Source 3. The source described a transaction with Setech of Murfreesboro, Tenn., that was supposed to have occurred in October 2000. Setech was among the defendants in the suit.
 Richard Eddinger, the Setech chief financial officer, said the suit was without merit and that Setech would defend itself.
 The suit also accused Delphi of inflating its earnings by incorrectly recording warranty payments and obligations. 
 The investors sued Delphi, 9 investment banks, an accounting firm, 6 former or current Delphi executives, 15 former or current directors and 2 other companies. 
 The lead plaintiffs in the lawsuit are the Teachers' Retirement System of Oklahoma; the Public Employees' Retirement System of Mississippi; Raiffeisen Kapitalanlage-Gesellschaft, a Vienna-based mutual fund; and Stichting Pensioenfonds, which is based in the Netherlands and is Europe's largest pension fund. 
 Consolidation of the individual lawsuits was approved by Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald of United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The plaintiffs are seeking class-action status.
 Also yesterday, Fitch Ratings lowered Delphi's credit ratings because of concern that the company might file for bankruptcy. 
 The company's senior unsecured notes fell three levels to CC, from CCC+, and its issuer default rating was cut two levels to CCC from B-, Fitch said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (92%); CASH FLOW (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (88%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (83%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); CLASS ACTIONS (77%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); DEBT NOTES (73%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (73%); ACCOUNTING (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%); APPROVALS (68%) Automobiles; Frauds and Swindling; Securities and Commodities Violations; Bankruptcies; Suits and Litigation

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (68%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%) Securities and Exchange Commission; Delphi Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (77%); NETHERLANDS (57%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2005



129 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: REBUILDING; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Effectiveness of Tax Breaks Is Questioned

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 5 

 BODY:
Proposals to use tax breaks for rebuilding areas devastated by the recent hurricanes may provide only limited help to people and businesses that suffered actual losses, according to many economists.
 The biggest beneficiaries could turn out to be companies from outside the devastated areas that have big federal contracts to carry out cleanup and reconstruction work.
President Bush has proposed a plan to turn much of the Gulf Coast into a giant ''opportunity zone'' in which businesses would receive special tax write-offs for new equipment and construction.
 In Congress, some lawmakers are pushing more ambitious plans for the damaged areas that would eliminate taxes on capital gains and inheritance taxes and give companies a tax credit for each worker in the area they hire. 
 The Bush plan would cost $2 billion, according to White House estimates, and the broader plans could cost several times that much.
 But economists say the most valuable tax breaks would benefit companies and investors from outside the damaged areas because the tax breaks are useful only to companies that have profits. 
 The two central features of Mr. Bush's Gulf Opportunity Zones would let big companies immediately write off half their investment in new equipment and allow small businesses to entirely write off investments up to about $200,000.
 But companies in the most devastated areas are likely to be swamped with losses. ''People in the area obviously won't have tax liabilities for some time,'' said William W. Beach, chief economist at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research group that is pushing for such incentives. ''What we're talking about is getting very wealthy people from around the United States to invest in New Orleans.''
 On Thursday, Treasury Secretary John W. Snow and other prominent Republicans will promote their tax-cutting ideas at a hearing of the Senate Finance Committee.
 But Republican leaders are far from one mind about how the tax breaks should work and how extensive they should be. Republican leaders are also under pressure from conservatives in their own party to offset the costs of Katrina with savings in other areas. 
 Representative Jim Nussle, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the House Budget Committee, called Wednesday for a cut of 2 percent in all discretionary government programs, including the military and homeland security. 
 Those cuts, likely to provoke bitter opposition from many quarters, could make proposals for additional tax breaks hard to sell.
 President Bush's approach is relatively cautious, offering tax breaks on investment in new equipment. Other Republicans are proposing more ambitious tax cuts.
 Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona has supported proposals to largely eliminate taxes on investment profits and estate taxes in the affected areas.
 Jack Kemp, the former vice presidential candidate and longtime advocate of low-tax ''enterprise zones,'' would go a step further by reducing Social Security and Medicare payroll taxes for low-income workers.
 ''The administration gets credit for green-lining the opportunity zone idea, but I'm suggesting it needs some more juice,'' Mr. Kemp said.
 Under current law, many impoverished areas already qualify as enterprise zones and offer tax benefits to businesses on investment as well as tax credits for the wages they pay.
 But economists say that the results of enterprise zones have been mixed, and that the low-tax zones sometimes simply lure investment that would have occurred nearby.
 ''It is a very inefficient way to provide relief,'' said Leonard E. Burman, an analyst at the Urban Institute who has studied the issue.
 In a report last week, the Congressional Research Service said most studies of enterprise zones had found little evidence of their impact on growth and employment. ''These results do not necessarily mean that that there are no positive effects, but rather that the effects are small and difficult to detect statistically,'' wrote Jane G. Gravelle, an economist at the research service.
 The House and Senate have approved about $6 billion in tax benefits for survivors of Hurricane Katrina, including a greater ability to deduct the cost of property losses and the ability to withdraw money from individual retirement accounts without any tax penalty.
 But House and Senate leaders want a broader package of tax cuts. Louisiana's two senators, David Vitter, a Republican, and Mary L. Landrieu, a Democrat, have offered a wish list of other tax proposals: the authorization for $30 billion worth of tax-free bonds; elimination of federal taxes on up to half of wages to workers in the disaster zone; and a $1,000 tax credit for every worker hired by a small business.
 House and Senate leaders are likely to stop well short of the full list, but hope to come out with tax packages in about two weeks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ESTATE PLANNING (89%); ESTATE TAX (89%); WEATHER (89%); CONSERVATISM (86%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MEDICARE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); COASTAL AREAS (76%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (74%); CORPORATE TAX (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (62%); NATIONAL SECURITY (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (66%); JON KYL (56%); JIM NUSSLE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) SOUTHEAST USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2005



130 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; Sports of The Times; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: The Honcho With the Midas Touch

BYLINE: By Harvey Araton. 
E-mail: hjaraton@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Anaheim, Calif. 

 BODY:
AS a Tucson teenager, Arte Moreno played second base for his high school baseball team. He wanted to be Bobby Richardson when he grew up. 
 Now he is 59, a self-made advertising mogul, and his baseball role model is George Steinbrenner, the acknowledged master of growing major league revenues.
 ''I was a big Yankee fan,'' Moreno said. ''I know the history. I know what happened when CBS owned the team and they drew, what, 500,000? I know what Steinbrenner has done.'' 
 Moreno, the first Latino owner of a major American sports franchise, has a vision for his Angels well beyond the business of this division series that is now even at a game apiece after errors by Alex Rodriguez and Chien-Ming Wang cost the Yankees a 5-3 defeat in Game 2.
 ''I'm a long-term planner,'' Moreno said, giving the impression near the Angels' dugout on Tuesday night that beating the Dodgers -- whom he refers to as ''the other team in the market'' -- is the ultimate mission for the man who lives in Phoenix, which at least is closer to Anaheim than Tampa is to New York.
 Consider 2005 a resounding success for Moreno, whose Angels outspent the Dodgers in payroll by roughly $13 million and outperformed them by more paved miles than there are between here and Los Angeles. But while the Dodgers' owner, Frank McCourt, has endeared himself to few since purchasing the team from Rupert Murdoch, the distance also accounts for why Moreno, rather than being the toast of Orange County, is the target of a lawsuit claiming he violated terms of his stadium lease by changing the name of his franchise last year to the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim.
 First, after driving halfway to San Diego the other night, getting lost in a freeway maze and trying to find the hotel a few blocks from Angel Stadium of Anaheim, let me say that I will vouch for the Anaheim politicians who claim their city of 328,000 is no mere suburb of Los Angeles.
 But it also occurs to me that this delightful and very underrated ballpark was called Edison International Field of Anaheim the last time I was here, which makes me wonder: if the local politicians were apparently willing to share the name of a civic resource with an electric utility company, then why not with their northerly neighbors in the coastal sprawl? 
 This may be a county with its own Disney-inspired identity, but would professional sports teams have spawned here if Anaheim were Fresno?
 ''Greater Los Angeles is a marketplace of 18 million people, the No. 2 media market in the country,'' Moreno said. ''I believe we have an opportunity to reach a lot more people than we have in the past, and it's important for us to maintain an economic balance so we're never in a situation where I show up one day and say, 'I've got to reduce the payroll.'''
 Moreno bought the Angels in 2003 from the Walt Disney Company for $184 million and immediately demonstrated he was here to play hardball when he shelled out an additional $146 million in free-agent contracts for the slugger Vladimir Guerrero and pitcher Bartolo Colon. Instead of trying to exploit the 2002 World Series title under the Disney umbrella, he cut ticket and concession prices, hoping to build on a season attendance of 2.2 million that ranged in the middle of the major league pack.
 Like a caffeinated public relations flack, he rattled off the growth numbers as if he'd rehearsed them: 3.1 million drawn in 2003, 3.3 million in 2004 and 3.4 million this season, just short of the Dodgers' 3.6 million, a once-unfathomable decline in the popularity gulf between these teams.
 ''And we're still the 22nd-lowest ticket in baseball,'' said Moreno, before moving on to the gains in broadcast revenues, up $60 million since 2002, and season tickets, now running second to the Yankees.
 Moreno isn't kidding himself about how much of a Boss he can be, given the exorbitant luxury taxes required to field a team of cleanup hitters -- which is what Colon, Tuesday night's Game 1 loser, called the Yankees. But Moreno said continued revenue growth would advance payroll investment, allowing the Angels to operate with a big-market mentality, contend annually for the playoffs, where -- as we were reminded last night by A-Rod's sixth-inning muff of Orlando Cabrera's high bouncer that helped the Angels get back on their feet -- anything can happen. 
 ''I tell people they should judge me by my consistency, if I do what I said I was going to,'' Moreno said.
 Call it gimmickry or gerrymandering, but he is far from the first sports owner pandering to potential customers.
 If Angels fans have been voting with their pocketbooks, it would seem they can live with the hybrid identity, considering the franchise has had more names -- from Los Angeles to California to Anaheim and so forth -- than most corporate-sponsored stadiums. Compared with larger evils inflicted by sports owners, the suit seems frivolous, but is unlikely to be dropped, Moreno said, before its January court date.
 In the meantime, electronic message boards on Katella Avenue greeted fans at the stadium by referring last night to the Angels as Anaheim's own, while on the city's Web site, the event of the day listed the Anaheim Angels against the New York Yankees, who headed home this morning, knowing they'd better be the Bronx Bombers by Game 3.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Juan Rivera sliding safely into first base on an infield single that sparked the Angels' two-run rally in the seventh inning. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. D1)
 Fans lined up at Angel Stadium before last night's game with the visiting Yankees. The Angels won, 5-3, to even the best-of-five series at 1-1. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (94%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); NETWORK TELEVISION (71%); TOURNAMENTS (69%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (69%); LITIGATION (63%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (50%) Baseball; Sports of the Times (Times Column); Playoff Games

COMPANY: EDISON INTERNATIONAL (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (91%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (85%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (83%); LOS ANGELES LOS ANGELES (59%) Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim; New York Yankees

TICKER: EIX (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (63%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (63%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (63%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (58%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (54%) Harvey Araton; Arte Moreno

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); FRESNO, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Los Angeles (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2005



131 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 261 words

HEADLINE: Storms' Job Losses Climb to 363,000

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 6 

 BODY:
The number of people put out of work by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita rose to 363,000 last week, and more bad news is expected Friday when the government releases its unemployment report for September. 
 The unemployment report could show as many as 400,000 job losses from Katrina in what would be the starkest sign yet of the economic devastation from the country's most expensive natural disaster.
 ''We are going to get a lot of ugly data in the next few weeks as we see the full effect of these storms,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com. 
 Mr. Zandi said he was looking for the September employment report to show a loss of about 350,000 jobs because of Katrina, which hit near New Orleans on Aug. 29. The number of people filing applications for unemployment benefits was still rising the week of Sept. 12, when the Labor Department conducted its survey for the monthly jobs report. 
 Mr. Zandi said the loss of 350,000 jobs in the hurricane areas would be offset somewhat by a gain of 150,000 jobs in the rest of the country, leaving total payroll employment dropping by a still sizable 200,000. 
 In August, before the storms hit, payroll jobs rose by 169,000. Jobs have not fallen in two years. 
 The consensus among economists surveyed is that jobs will decline by 150,000 and that the unemployment rate will rise to 5.1 percent, from a four-year low of 4.9 percent in August. But analysts said predicting this month's data was tricky because the Bureau of Labor Statistics faced great difficulty doing its normal surveys in the hurricane areas. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); STATISTICS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2005



132 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1422 words

HEADLINE: Grand Theories, Ignored Realities

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:

The Assassins' Gate
America in Iraq
By George Packer
467 pages. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $26.
 In his authoritative and tough-minded new book, ''The Assassins' Gate: America in Iraq,'' the New Yorker writer George Packer reminds us that the decision of the Bush administration to go to war against Iraq and its increasingly embattled handling of the occupation were both predicated upon large, abstract ideas about the role of America in the post-cold war world -- most notably, a belief in pre-emptive and unilateral action, the viability of exporting democracy abroad, the urge to streamline the military and the dream of remaking the Middle East.
Like the administration's allegation that Saddam Hussein posed a ''grave and gathering danger'' and possessed weapons of mass destruction (the supposed reason we went to war in the first place), many of these assumptions would turn out to be wrong -- or naive, overly simplistic and deeply flawed. 
 In the walk-up to the war, Mr. Packer suggests, administration hawks were so certain of their ideas that they encouraged the cherry-picking of intelligence to support their theories, while ignoring the counsel of military and intelligence professionals whose advice was deemed contradictory or inconvenient. In the aftermath of Mr. Hussein's fall, he goes on, the war's architects remained so wedded to their grand theories that they were reluctant to acknowledge the realities on the ground. They failed to anticipate many of the palpable consequences of the war (from an increasingly virulent insurgency to growing Islamist radicalism to the escalation of ferocious ethnic tensions within Iraq), and they were slow to respond to concerns about insufficient troops and insufficient armor and supplies.
 Mr. Packer writes not as an peacenik but as an ''ambivalently prowar liberal'' who had ''wanted to see a homicidal dictator removed from power before he committed mass murder again,'' who had ''wanted to see if an open society stood a chance of taking root in the heart of the Arab world.'' If his assessment in these pages of the Bush administration is scorching, it is because he writes as one who shared its hopes of seeing a functioning democracy established in Iraq and who now sees the chances of that happening dwindling in the wake of the administration's bungled handling of the war and occupation.
 Most of Mr. Packer's observations about the dangerous fallout of administration members' idees fixes are not new: they have been made before by former consultants to the administration like Larry Diamond, a former senior adviser to the Coalition Provisional Authority in Baghdad and the author of the recent book ''Squandered Victory,'' and by journalists like Mr. Packer's colleague, Seymour M. Hersh, the author of ''Chain of Command'' and a series of ground-breaking stories in The New Yorker. 
 Other portions of this volume -- which sorely lacks footnotes and an extended bibliography -- are heavily indebted to earlier books on the Bush administration and its prosecution of the Iraq war, including James Mann's ''Rise of the Vulcans,'' Anonymous's ''Imperial Hubris,'' James Bamford's ''Pretext for War'' and Bob Woodward's ''Plan of Attack.'' 
 What ''The Assassins' Gate'' may lack in freshness, however, is more than made up for by its wide-angled, overarching take on the Iraq war and Mr. Packer's lucid ability to pull together information from earlier books and integrate it with his own reporting from Washington and Iraq. He traces the roots of the decision to go to war in Iraq back to ideas (involving America's assumption of an aggressive, forward-leaning role in the world, its exercise of what Robert Kagan and William Kristol have called ''benevolent global hegemony'') that germinated among neoconservatives years ago, and he shows how those ideas gained traction as many of these people assumed high-level jobs in the administration of George W. Bush.
 As the former counterterrorism czar Richard A. Clarke and the former Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill have pointed out, Iraq was on the Bush administration's agenda long before 9/11, but those terrorist attacks gave further impetus to the neoconservatives' agenda, providing a president in search of new ideas with a ready-made strategy and world view. 
 ''By the early spring of 2002,'' Mr. Packer writes, ''a full year before the invasion, the administration was inexorably set on a course of war''; the policy had been set, he adds, without arguments for and against an invasion being methodically weighed. According to Richard Haass, the director of policy planning in the State Department, ''it was an accretion, a tipping point'': ''a decision was not made -- a decision happened, and you can't say when or how.'' 
 Preparations for the postwar period were also predicated upon a set of assumptions (based heavily on the word of Iraqi exiles like the neocon favorite Ahmad Chalabi) that administration members, from Vice President Dick Cheney to Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz, were reluctant to re-evaluate. ''Plan A,'' Mr. Packer writes, ''was that the Iraqi government would be quickly decapitated, security would be turned over to remnants of the Iraqi police and army, international troops would soon arrive, and most American forces would leave within a few months. There was no Plan B.'' To dissent from Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld's minimalist war plan of quick, light force, in Mr. Packer's view, was to risk ''humiliation and professional suicide.'' Gen. Eric K. Shinseki, the Army chief of staff, was mocked by Mr. Wolfowitz for testifying that the job would require ''something on the order of several hundred thousand soldiers.'' And when President Bush's economic adviser, Lawrence Lindsay, predicted that the war could cost as much as $200 billion (a figure that would actually turn out to be low), he was ''quickly reprimanded and eventually fired.'' 
 ''The administration systematically kept forecasts of the war's true cost from the public and, by the insidious effects of airtight groupthink, from itself,'' Mr. Packer writes. ''This would be historic transformation on the cheap.'' 
 That cheapness would have serious consequences for the course of the occupation. The lack of sufficient troops would lead to an inability to prevent looting and restore law and order, which in turn would undermine Iraqi confidence in the Americans; an inability to contain local militias, which would help fuel the insurgency; and an inability to seal the country's borders, which would allow foreign terrorists to enter the country at will. As for funds -- which were often insufficient, delayed or mismanaged -- Mr. Packer writes that ''the failure to spend Iraq reconstruction money wisely, or quickly, or at all, became one of the less publicized but more significant scandals of the occupation.'' 
 Many of the missteps made during the war and postwar, Mr. Packer implies, could have been avoided had the Bush administration been more open to recommendations from experts on Iraq. He writes that the State Department's Future of Iraq project was sidelined because of tensions between the State Department and the Pentagon, and that its coordinator, Tom Warrick, ''who had done as much thinking about postwar Iraq as any American official'' also ''became a casualty of the interagency war and didn't get to Baghdad for a year.'' 
 Mr. Packer adds that a 2002 offer from Leslie H. Gelb, the president of the Council on Foreign Relations, to put together a panel of experts to consult on postwar options, was turned down by the national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, and he says that a provisional plan for Iraq's reconstruction, begun by Gen. Anthony C. Zinni, was shrugged off by the Pentagon, shortly before the war, as being too negative. Mr. Packer's conclusion: ''Where it mattered and could have made a difference, the advice of experts was unwelcome.'' 
 In the end, Mr. Packer blames administration members' arrogance and carelessness about human life (amounting, in his words, ''to criminal negligence'') for many of the current problems in Iraq. ''Swaddled in abstract ideas,'' he writes, ''convinced of their own righteousness, incapable of self-criticism, indifferent to accountability, they turned a difficult undertaking into a needlessly deadly one. When things went wrong, they found other people to blame. The Iraq War was always winnable; it still is. For this very reason, the recklessness of its authors is all the harder to forgive.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: George Packer (Photo by Greg Martin)(pg. E46)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS & WRITING (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); ARMED FORCES (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (66%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%) IRAQ (97%); MIDDLE EAST (97%); NORTH AMERICA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); GULF STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2005



133 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: Images of Vietnamese in the Generation Since the War

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

 BODY:
Over the past decade, Dinh Q. Le, whose works are on view in a small exhibition at the Asia Society, has grappled with a subject of large social and political import: the Vietnam War -- or, as it is known in Vietnam, where Mr. Le was born in 1968, the American War.
 Despite its rather grand title, ''Vietnam: Destination for the New Millennium -- The Art of Dinh Q. Le,'' the show is not broad enough to indicate whether Mr. Le's actual accomplishments live up to his intentions. Glimpses of several different projects reveal less of the intellectual or spiritual depth you would think the subject requires than a kind of conceptual cleverness that is characteristic of artists trained, as Mr. Le was, in American postgraduate studio-art programs. Yet in his best works, an affecting emotional urgency comes through. 
Mr. Le came to the United States with his family when he was 11 and eventually received a master of fine arts degree from the School of Visual Arts in Manhattan. Later he began spending more time back in Vietnam, and he now makes his home in Ho Chi Minh City.
 In New York, Mr. Le first became known for large photographic works made by weaving together strips from different photographs. Three recent examples on view here blend stills from the movie ''Apocalypse Now,'' enlargements of found studio portraits of Vietnamese people, and pictures taken by photojournalists during the war. The finished works look like pixilated multiple exposures and are hard to read visually. What is distinctly intelligible is the weaving of different cultural strands as a metaphor about the mind's struggle to integrate different representations of reality.
 Though smart and good-looking, these works mainly reflect Western academic ideas about the mass media. That is not to say that they don't lend themselves to a sympathetic viewer's thoughtful exegesis, but on their own, they are less than deeply revelatory. It is too predictable to juxtapose, as one does, the image of the sexy dancing girl in the cowboy costume from ''Apocalypse Now'' and the image of Gen. Nguyen Ngoc Loan executing a Vietcong prisoner in the famous photograph by Eddie Adams. 
 Three bitterly sarcastic photographic works in the form of tourist posters are more directly provocative. Cheerful lettering above a beautiful ocean view reads, ''Come to My Lai'' -- the site of the infamous massacre by American soldiers -- ''for its beaches.'' The text over an image of bicyclists at a stoplight says: ''Come to Vietnam. We promise we won't spit on you.'' These works address a subject of mind-boggling historical irony: the transformation of Vietnam from a land of war and death to a tropical tourist paradise. But the faux posters offer little insight into that development.
 A more substantial effort is the ''Damaged Gene'' project from 1998, in which Mr. Le addressed the high rate of birth defects, including an unusually high number of Siamese twins, among Vietnamese people; it is believed to be linked to the widespread use of defoliants and other chemicals by the United States military forces.
 For this project, Mr. Le produced small baby dolls with conspicuous physical deformities and sold them in a booth in a public marketplace in Vietnam. He also created infant clothing with double neck holes for two-headed children. 
 After learning that Siamese twins were revered as magical beings in some underdeveloped areas, Mr. Le went on to create near-life-size painted sculptures of Siamese twin children, displayed on or among lotus blossoms like traditional deities. They resemble statues you might find in an old temple garden, though each, you will notice, has the label of a major American chemical company inconspicuously affixed to it. The understated combination of benign traditionalism and contemporary horror makes these some of Mr. Le's most powerful works. 
 Also effective is a large floor-to-ceiling curtain made of hundreds of old snapshots and studio portraits of Vietnamese people. This piece came about when Mr. Le found such pictures being sold by the kilo in second-hand stores. He was hoping to discover photographs of his own family; then he began to think about all the unknown people in the pictures and created the large curtain by threading prints together at the corners.
 On the backs of many of the prints Mr. Le wrote texts in Vietnamese, which quote from published letters, oral histories and a 19th-century poem. But if you can't read Vietnamese, you may suppose that the words reflect what is on the minds of the people who once owned the pictures. Looking at this work as a whole, you can't help thinking about the countless people who were ground up by the remorseless machinery of history.
 In an interview published in the catalog with Melissa Chiu, director of the Asia Society's museum and the organizer of the exhibition, Mr. Le says that he feels he is done with making art about the Vietnam War and that he is now more interested in addressing the future of his country. The biggest and most recent work in the show does this quite literally. 
 In a mirrored room hang two full-size representations of small satellites, each with mirrored surfaces, a revolving dish covered with mirror fragments like a disco ball, and a discreet red label that says, ''Made in Vietnam.'' These were inspired by Vietnamese government plans to launch communications satellites in the near future. The glitzy surfaces suggest a desire not only to enter the space age but also to participate in global consumerist economies.
 The satellites prompt thoughts about the future of Vietnam, but they do so as simple signs pointing toward certain topics rather than as resonant metaphors. As for Mr. Le's future, dealing with his own susceptibility to overly literal or obvious ideas will be one of his challenges as an artist. 

''Vietnam: Destination for the New Millennium -- The Art of Dinh Q. Le'' continues at the Asia Society, 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212)288-6400, through Jan. 15.


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''Damaged Gene'' addresses Vietnam's high incidence of birth defects. (Photo courtesy Asia Society)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ART & ARTISTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (73%); MILLENNIUM (71%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: THE ASIA SOCIETY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK (79%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK (79%) VIETNAM (99%); ASIA (99%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2005



134 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; EXHIBITION REVIEW; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 1617 words

HEADLINE: The Peculiar Institution As Lived in New York

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN

 BODY:
Hanging sedately on a wall, almost out of the way of the more elaborate displays in ''Slavery in New York,'' the exhibition opening today at the New-York Historical Society, is a map of New York City created by a 76-year-old man, David Grim, in 1813. New York was on the verge of extraordinary economic growth, when it was about to become a modern 19th-century city. But the map recreates the New York of his childhood before 1745. 
 It is a meticulous rendering of an antique world in which the British still ruled, in which the western half of the Battery had not yet been consumed in the Revolutionary War's flames, in which religious institutions punctuate the winding streets. But included in this detailed reconstruction are two images that must also have inscribed themselves indelibly on a child's consciousness. Deep in today's downtown, but well north of the era's houses, is a tiny cartoon of a gallows from which a man hangs. It is inscribed ''Plot Negro Gibbeted.'' Not far off is a small bonfire labeled ''Plot Negro's burnt here.'' 
In 1741, these ''Plot Negroes'' were accused of trying to burn down the city (the subject of a new book, ''New York Burning,'' by the historian Jill Lepore). After confessions were obtained and a plot outlined, 13 blacks were burned at the stake and 17 hanged. 
 It is one sign of the deformations created by slavery that a lifetime later, Grim felt haunted enough to evoke these events on a map of buildings and streets. It is a more profound sign of those deformations that even today one approaches this exhibition with discomfort. 
 While ''Slavery in New York'' is marred by its tendency to slight the broader context and by its earnest attempts to pull in all age groups, its virtues are so considerable, and the information and objects on display so potent, that they are bound to transform the way any visitor thinks about slavery in New York City's past. 
 The $5 million exhibition inspired some concern from the start because of its aim to demonstrate the importance of slavery in New York City, from the Dutch period until 1827. There was also some anticipatory consternation about the presumed conservative influence of two of the society's backers and board members, Richard Gilder and Lewis E. Lehrman, a concern that turns out to be as groundless now as it was in the society's far less successful exhibition on Alexander Hamilton last year. 
 But the history here was carefully vetted. The 9,000-square-foot exhibition was shaped by Louise Mirrer, the president of the society; Richard Rabinowitz, a historian and the president of the American History Workshop, a Brooklyn company that designs museum exhibitions; and James Oliver Horton, a historian at George Washington University -- along with more than a score of scholarly advisers.
 The society's slavery narrative -- exploring what it calls ''New York's rootedness in the enslavement of Africans'' -- will continue late next year with another major exhibition; there will also be smaller shows, along with lectures and programs, some mounted with the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture. 

A Video Emphasis
 It is still difficult to comprehend that something that is now unthinkable was once not only taken for granted, but also defended as rational and necessary -- and defended not just in the Deep South, but in New York, where slavery provided manual labor from the time of the Dutch, and where it was implicated in an international network of trade. 
 During the period reconstructed by Grim's map, for example, almost a fifth of New York City's estimated 11,000 residents were black, and almost all of these were slaves. The 1800 census for New York State showed 20,500 slaves, each counted as three-fifths of a person in calculations of proportional representation. It took until 1827 for slavery to be abolished in New York State. The only northern state to delay longer was New Jersey. 
 New York's involvement with slavery has been well known by scholars, and recent histories of New York have been fully cognizant of the facts. But the popular imagination is something else, and the unearthing of part of the African Burial Ground in Lower Manhattan in 1991 may have been a turning point, with the remains of more than 400 people from the 17th and 18th centuries discovered at a construction site. Those remains made slavery all too vivid: with the bones came buttons and polished stones, evidence of malnutrition and signs of injuries. Scholarship has increased in the years since, and some of it is surveyed in the exhibition's companion book, edited by Ira Berlin and Leslie M. Harris. 
 The popular imagination, though, is the real focus of this exhibition's attention, which is one reason there is so much emphasis on video. Scholars discuss manumission on monitors; actors playing slaves are shown on video in conversation; at the end of the exhibition, viewers' reactions can be taped, to be edited and possibly become part of the displays. A detailed school curriculum has also been developed, with some displays explicitly aimed at younger students, including an animated video game -- ''Manumission Society Rescue Adventure'' -- that can be played to free slaves (while teaching something about the applicable laws of the early 19th century). 

Too Valuable to Kill
 Some of this sound and light creates atmosphere; some of it is banal; some of it spurs interest. But the importance of the exhibition is in its objects, which are extraordinarily powerful: 
 A 1641 Dutch legal document notes that eight blacks were convicted of killing an African in a tavern brawl, but since punishing them all would have meant too much loss of labor, lots were drawn to pick the man to be hanged; the rope broke twice under his weight, and he was ultimately reprieved. 
 A 1748-49 trading book for a single journey by the sloop Rhode Island shows, in conjunction with a touch-screen monitor, how food, tobacco and rum brought from New York were first exchanged in Sierra Leone for cloth, guns and European goods in demand in Africa, and then traded for slaves. Thirty-eight of the ship's 124 slaves died before reaching New York. 
 A ''Book of Negroes'' carefully records the names and former owners of slaves -- slaves who were promised freedom by the British in the Revolutionary War but feared a return to their former masters after the colonial victory. The British ultimately sent them to their freedom in Nova Scotia, including at least one slave who had belonged to George Washington. 
 And more: Books of sermons by free black preachers of the early 19th century are open to eloquent passages; early paintings of New York show blacks at work in the cityscape; the revised New York Constitution of 1821 shows a new property requirement for black voters, so that by 1826, only 16 blacks qualified in New York County. 
 There is simply no way to attend to this material without hearing the echoing ramifications of slavery's evil, without seeing both how much was accomplished in the century and a half that followed and how deep the scars are that remain. 
 But given all of this, the exhibition's argument about New York City's centrality to slavery and vice versa can seem overstated at times. New York, of course, was a major port in which slaves were traded along with products made with slave labor. But the exhibition literature goes further, calling New York ''the capital of American slavery'' and arguing that during the colonial period, ''only Charleston, S.C., rivaled New York City in the extent to which slavery penetrated everyday life.'' It stresses that slavery was also just as harsh in New York and was vital to the city's economy. 
 That slavery was a powerful force in early New York is incontrovertible, but to make this argument, with its suggestions of equivalence with the South, would require more explanation. 
 As the exhibition points out, for example, before the American Revolution, New York City had more slaves than any other American city, aside from Charleston. But the institution of Southern slavery was so different, the involvement of slavery in all aspects of Southern agriculture and rural life so profound, that the comparison doesn't begin to capture the differences. 

Numbers and Context
 The peak population of slaves in New York City was about 3,000 in the 18th century. But 90 percent of American slaves lived in the South during that period; South Carolina's tens of thousands of slaves actually formed a majority of its population for much of the century. By 1810, there were more than a million slaves throughout the South. 
 Another example: the population of free blacks in New York City tripled in the final decade of the 18th century. (By 1790 one-third of the blacks in New York were free.) This indicates conditions quite different from those in the South, particularly after the Revolutionary War. 
 The focus on the importance of slavery in New York City also tends to overshadow the broader context. The exhibition argues that slaves constructed the wall of Wall Street and built ''the roads, the docks and most of the important buildings of the early city.'' But what percentage of the labor force in the colonial period consisted of slaves? We are not told. 
 It would not have weakened the show's impact to explore such questions. There is no need to suggest that New York City was slavery's capital. It is enough to show, as the exhibition does, that slavery was knit into the city's founding fabric. As one display declares: ''Everything was touched by slavery.'' 

''Slavery in New York'' is on view at the New-York Historical Society, 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street, (212)873-3400, through March 5.


GRAPHIC: Photos: At top, Catherine Ferguson, who was born into slavery in 1774 but went on to create one of New York's first Sunday schools
 above, a 1760 ad. (Images from the collection of the New-York Historical Society)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK (94%) NORTH AMERICA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (72%); UNITED KINGDOM (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2005



135 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1810 words

HEADLINE: San Antonio Proudly Lines Up Behind the Military Recruiter

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

DATELINE: SAN ANTONIO 

 BODY:
This city has its critics of the war in Iraq and its angry mothers who try to shame recruiters into going home. More than anything, though, it has a powerful patriotism and a deep respect for the military life. 
 At a time when the divide is widening between the cities and regions that send their children to war and those that do not, San Antonio remains a ready source of what the military needs most: people.
This metropolis -- the home of the Alamo and the site of an Army presence since 1845 -- is a top recruiting market for every branch of the military. The Army, in particular, which has struggled to sign up new soldiers during the continuing violence in Iraq and Afghanistan, has found the San Antonio area to be a reliable and steady source of recruits. 
 Nationwide, every one of the Army's 41 recruiting battalions failed to meet its recruiting goal in the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, falling 7,000 soldiers short of the goal needed to refill the ranks, according to Army figures. Not since 1979 has the Army missed its annual quota by so many recruits. And yet San Antonio's recruiters, covering the city of 1.2 million people as well as the area stretching north to Austin and south to the Mexican border, ranked first among battalions by signing up 2,118 people for active duty, 86 percent of its goal. 
 Only Oklahoma City, which followed with 78 percent, and St. Louis, with 72 percent, came close, according to the Army figures.
 ''People always say, 'How can you be doing so good when we're at war?' said Sgt. First Class Jaime Gaitan, 40, a senior Army recruiter on San Antonio's east side, at an award ceremony for being the only battalion to exceed its recruiting quotas for August. ''But here the war boosts morale.'' 
 San Antonio has long described itself as Military City, U.S.A., but other military cities, like Fayetteville, N.C., also yield a large numbers of recruits. 
 Here, the culture of support starts with the strong military presence. Kelly Air Force Base closed in the 1990's, but San Antonio is still ringed by three Air Force installations as well as Brooke Army Medical Center and Fort Sam Houston, the Army's largest base through World War II.
 Census figures also show that there are more veterans here than in other American cities of San Antonio's size, including Dallas and San Diego.
 Many of these veterans are retirees. And because of a Texas program that makes it easier for them to gain jobs as teachers, San Antonio's schools are filled with men and women who served in uniform for 20 years or more.
 They are often eager, active links between the battalion's 200-plus recruiters and students, who even in San Antonio's relatively thriving economy -- low unemployment and a new Toyota plant on the way -- are willing to enlist. Many students see the military as not just a good career but as a prestigious path, one more valued by some than college. ''We're strong like that,'' said Jonathan Garcia, 16, standing outside the Ingram Park Mall one summer day. ''If I'm going to die, I might as well die for my country.''
 In the hallways and courtyards of places like Judson High School, on the city's northeastern edge, a breezy comfort with the military is clearly evident. Since October last year, at least 25 former Judson students have enlisted in the Army, according to recruiting officials, making it one of the military's most productive schools.
 It is easy to see why. 
 When Staff Sgt. Ian E. Davis, a square-chinned infantryman back from Iraq, and Sgt. Adam D. Torres, his soft-spoken recruiting partner, strolled in on the first day of school in August, unannounced and carrying doughnuts, the receptionist, Donna McMillion, greeted them with hugs. 
 ''I appreciate everything you guys do for us -- everything,'' said Ms. McMillion, wearing a pin that said ''Too blessed to be stressed.'' 
 On most Tuesdays, Sergeants Davis and Torres can be found in one of the school's cafeterias, chatting with students or handing out free Army calendars. In contrast to school districts in California, New York and Washington State that have started limiting recruiters to only a few visits a year, Judson's administrators allow Sergeants Davis and Torres to come and go as they please. 
 The access is valuable because the student body is of Texan proportions: more than 3,500 on two campuses. 
 And size is not Judson's only advantage. At the school's Gray Campus, a short drive from the Red Campus, Barbara Meade, a guidance counselor, promised to point students toward the Army. ''I have a lot of kids who need to be talking to you,'' she said to Sergeant Davis. ''It's their best option.'' 
 The student population is heavily Hispanic, coming from mostly lower- and middle-class families. About 470 students are enrolled in the Air Force Junior R.O.T.C. program. Their day begins with the Pledge of Allegiance to the American and Texan flags.
 Among Judson's faculty, connections to the military are as common as master's degrees in education. Its principal, Brad Williams, said 70 percent of the 280-member faculty served in the military, have family members who served, or also work in jobs connected to local bases. The concentrated military presence puts people like Richard McCarson, an assistant principal with a broad chest and a slight Texas drawl, in close contact with teenagers looking for a career. He tells a simple tale in a gruff voice: He was drafted at 19, and, he says, it was the best thing that ever happened to him. 
 ''I was the first person in my family to go to college, and my entire education was paid for by the military,'' he said, standing in Mr. Williams's office.
 Mr. McCarson met Sergeant Davis back when the recruiter was a mischievous teenager at a high school a few hours north. These days they are partners on a common mission.
 ''He's a combat veteran now,'' Mr. McCarson said of Sergeant Davis. ''I got chills when I found out. That's how excited I was for him.''
 At the Ingram Park Mall across town, teenagers gathered near the food court on a recent afternoon and strolled between J.C. Penney and E.B. Games, where a shoulder-height display out front promoted a new video combat game called ''Far Cry Instincts.'' 
 The young people hanging out and shopping did not necessarily look to be military material. Miguel Romo, 20, with his scruffy facial hair, backward baseball hat and T-shirt down to his knees, seemed more in tune with hip-hop than Huah, the Army chant. 
 But in fact, Mr. Romo -- like a handful of other young shoppers -- said he planned to enlist. He said his grandfather served in the Air Force for 30 years. ''At some point, everything he said just started to make sense,'' Mr. Romo said. ''It just clicked.''
 Mr. Romo said part of what made the military attractive was the money. Like many people here, he said he thought of military pay as a step up, and the money goes further here since San Antonio is one of the country's most affordable cities, with cheap gas prices and new homes and condominiums starting as low as $80,000. 
 ''I'm just going by what my grandfather told me,'' Mr. Romo said. ''He's got five houses, nine cars; he's got it all worked out.''
 For many young men, like Ronald Ecklund, 18, the war in Iraq is an even more powerful draw. 
 A Judson graduate of medium build, with a soft blond mustache, Mr. Ecklund signed up a month ago for an Army infantry unit without being approached by recruiters. Standing in Sergeant Davis's air-conditioned recruiting station after a run, a few weeks before starting basic training, he said that he had known he wanted to join the Army two years ago, after getting goosebumps while watching the movie ''Black Hawk Down.'' 
 ''I wanted to get up and go right then,'' he said, wiping a sweaty hand on his Army shorts, ''but I couldn't because I was only a sophomore.''
 Sergeant Torres said Mr. Ecklund was so determined to enlist that he took the military's aptitude test four times before passing. Mr. Ecklund said he could not wait to be involved in a war that he believes will make the country safer. 
 ''It's just one big fire, and we're there to put it out,'' said Mr. Ecklund, who also persuaded his best friend, Arlyn Hales, 19, to sign up. ''We're there to prevent terrorism from coming over here.''
 Parents here are often only slightly less gung-ho. Military mothers, in particular, are actively involved in efforts to gain recognition for those who serve. 
 On a recent Friday night at a Lutheran church in one of the city's wealthier neighborhoods, several mothers and a father gathered, over sugar cookies stamped with the seals of the Army, Navy, Air Force or Marines, to frame pictures of local servicemen and servicewomen for a public display. At one point, Chris Peche-Schulz, the group's founder, a dark-haired single mother who works as a test proctor at a nearby university, pulled out a calendar she created with pictures of herself and those she called ''my celebrities'' -- recognized heroes, from World War II to the battle of Tikrit.
 ''These are the people to me who are worthy of more attention and prayer,'' Ms. Peche-Schulz said. ''They have a higher calling.''
 The other parents in the room nodded. They are united in support of the men and women in uniform, even though they do not all agree on the merits of the war. Political talk is banned at their meetings. 
 Not that the war's dangers can ever be fully suppressed. Members of the parents' group attended four military funerals in June. Since 2003, 17 men and women from San Antonio have been killed in Iraq. Only Los Angeles, which has a population three times as large as San Antonio's, has suffered more deaths, with 20. 
 One parent, Emma Bedoy-Pina, said she sometimes struggled with whether to recommend the military to her youngest son, Jacob, who graduated from high school last year. Noting that her older son, an airman second class, is stationed in Alaska and unlikely to be sent into combat, she said, ''What if he's not as lucky as his brother?'' 
 This summer, Sergeant Davis said, two mothers paid a call on his recruiting office to denounce the war and the recruiters' efforts. Still, for many people here, the war's needs outweigh political opposition, fear and ambivalence. Many said they believed that those who oppose recruitment are ignorant about the value that military service holds for the individual and the country. 
 At the Lutheran church, pride trumped all other emotions. Holding snapshots of young men and women in uniform, the parents there described their sons' decision to serve as inherently noble and brave. 
 ''I have cards made up that I give to recruiters for them to pass out to parents,'' said Beverly Rosen, 42, the mother of Lance Cpl. Ryan Visket, who returned from Iraq in February. ''That way, they can talk to someone who has walked in their shoes.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: One of the Army recruiters for the San Antonio district, Staff Sgt. Ian E. Davis, checking the R.O.T.C. class at Wagner High School. He and other recruiters are given almost unlimited access to high school students. (Photo by Bryce Harper for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Staff Sgt. Ian E. Davis, an Army recruiter, in the hallways at Wagner High School in San Antonio, where a large number of military veterans live. (Photo by Bryce Harper for The New York Times)(pg. A26)Chart/Map: ''Finding Soldiers''The military's efforts to attract soldiers have met with more success in the central and southern parts of the country than in the Northeast.(Sources by Department of Defense
 U.S. Census data analyzed by the Queens College Sociology Dept.)Map of United States highlighting recruits per 1,000 people ages 17 to 25, Oct. 2003 through May 2005. (pg. A26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY RECRUITING (90%); MILITARY BASES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); CITIES (73%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); RANKINGS (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (58%); CENSUS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA (79%); TEXAS (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); MEXICO (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2005



136 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: What Were They Thinking?

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
When the definitive history of the Iraq war is written, future historians will surely want to ask Saddam Hussein and George W. Bush each one big question. To Saddam, the question would be: What were you thinking? If you had no weapons of mass destruction, why did you keep acting as though you did? For Mr. Bush, the question would be: What were you thinking? If you bet your whole presidency on succeeding in Iraq, why did you let Donald Rumsfeld run the war with just enough troops to lose? Why didn't you establish security inside Iraq and along its borders? How could you ever have thought this would be easy?
 The answer to these questions can be found in what was America's greatest intelligence failure in Iraq -- and that was not about W.M.D. 
Let me explain. While visiting the Iraqi port of Umm Qasr last week, I spent a morning watching the commanders of the Iraqi Navy hold a staff meeting, while their British and U.S. advisers looked on. On the one hand, you felt as if they were doing a pretty good imitation of a British command briefing. On the other hand, the slightly ragged quality left you feeling that if you pulled the British and U.S. advisers out tomorrow, the whole Iraqi Navy would collapse. The human capital and institutional foundation are simply not there yet. ''How these guys ever fought the Iranians for eight years, I will never know,'' a British trainer remarked to me.
 After that staff meeting, a British Royal Navy officer who was escorting me suggested that we go to Basra to see the flea market there. He said I could find anything I wanted, because so many Iraqis have had to hock basic household goods -- stereos, refrigerators, air-conditioners, cars -- to survive the last decade under Saddam.
 Message: Failing to find W.M.D. was a big intelligence failure. But the even bigger failure -- the one that is the source of all our troubles today -- was the failure to understand just how devastated Iraq's society, economy and institutions had become -- after eight years of war with Iran, a crushing defeat in Gulf War I and then a decade of U.N. sanctions. 
 But I think Saddam knew how busted and bankrupt his country and army were. Therefore, he never wanted to completely erase the impression that he had W.M.D. Saddam lived in a den of wolves. The hint of W.M.D. was his only deterrent shield left against his neighbors, his enemies at home and the West. (This was alluded to in the Duelfer W.M.D. report.) So he tried to allow just enough U.N. inspections to clear him on W.M.D., while playing just enough cat and mouse with the U.N. to leave the impression that he still had something dangerous in the closet. 
 The Bush team, and the C.I.A., not only failed to learn that Saddam had no W.M.D., they failed to appreciate how devastated Iraqi society really was. The Bush team, listening largely to exiles who had not lived in Iraq for years, thought that there were much more of an Iraqi middle class and more institutions than actually existed. So Mr. Bush thought taking over Iraq would be easy. That is the only way I can explain his behavior.
 This intelligence failure about Iraqi society is what is killing us today. Because what really happened after the U.S. invasion is that what little Iraqi state existed just fell apart in our hands, like a broken vase. And then Rummy let the shards get looted. So yes, when the Bush team says rebuilding Iraq is like rebuilding Germany, it's half right. It is like rebuilding Germany, but not post-World War II Germany. It is like rebuilding medieval, pre-modern Germany -- the Germany of clans and feudal fiefs, before there was a state.
 As this column has long insisted, we are not doing nation-building in Iraq. We are doing nation-creating. It is hugely important, but hugely difficult. I can only assume the C.I.A. didn't know how broken Iraq was, because if the president knew and still put in so few troops, it was criminal.
 Sadly, what Iraq desperately needs most from the U.S. today are A.I.D. workers, State Department advisers and technical experts from every agency of the government who can help rebuild Iraq's human capital. But people are afraid to go. And who can blame them? We have never established basic public order there, because we never had enough troops. 
 The president's speech on terrorism yesterday was excellent. He made clear, better than ever, why winning in Iraq is so important to the wider struggle against Islamo-fascism. But it only makes me that much more angry that he fought this war as though it would be easy -- never asking for any sacrifice, any military draft, any tax hikes or any gasoline tax -- and that he tolerated so much incompetence along the way. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NAVIES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ARMIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (75%); INSPECTIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (61%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE WALKER BUSH (73%); DONALD H RUMSFELD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST (98%); IRAQ (98%); IRAN (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (75%); UNITED KINGDOM (75%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2005



137 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: A Pig In A Jacket

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
During the California electricity crisis, Dick Cheney sneered at energy conservation, calling it a mere ''sign of personal virtue.'' But this week Samuel Bodman, the energy secretary -- who is widely regarded as Mr. Cheney's proxy -- declared that ''the main thing that U.S. citizens can do is conserve.'' Is the Bush administration going green?
 No, not really. This administration's idea of encouraging conservation is an ad campaign centered on a cartoon pig. When it comes to substantive energy policy, the administration is still thinking drill-and-burn. 
The background to Mr. Bodman's remarks is growing public anger over high energy prices. Most of the focus right now is on the price of gasoline, but the worst is yet to come: just wait until people see their winter heating bills, especially for natural gas, which has roughly doubled in price since last year. 
 And the political danger to the administration is obvious: polls suggest that many people blame energy companies for high energy prices, and blame the administration for failing to control price gouging. 
 Funny, isn't it? During the California crisis, some of us deduced from economic evidence that electricity shortages were artificial, the result of market manipulation by energy producers and traders. This deduction was later confirmed by the Enron tapes, but at the time we were voices crying in the wilderness. 
 Now, much of the public believes that corporate evildoers with close ties to the administration are conspiring to drive prices up. But this time they aren't, at least so far.
 Just in case you think I've gone soft on the energy industry, let me say that claims that we're having a crisis because environmentalists wouldn't let oil companies do their job are equally bogus. When you hear someone talk about how no refineries were built for 25 years, remember that until recently, oil companies weren't interested in building refineries, because they had excess capacity and profit margins were thin.
 In fact, the current crisis is nobody's fault, except Mother Nature's. Both Katrina and Rita were stronger hurricanes when they plowed through offshore oil and gas fields than when they made landfall. And because damaged refineries and other energy facilities are competing for a limited number of repair crews, it's taking a long time to get those facilities back up and running. 
 What this means is that a lot of ''demand destruction'' must take place over the next few months. That is, one way or another, people will have to be persuaded to limit their consumption of natural gas, gasoline and heating oil to match the available supply.
 In the absence of an effective conservation policy, prices will do all the persuading: the cost of fuel will rise until people drive less and turn down their thermostats. The problem, of course, is that high prices will impose serious hardship on many families.
 And that's why administration officials are sounding vaguely greenish: they hope to limit the price pain by persuading people to curb their energy consumption out of a sense of public duty. Done right, such a campaign really could make a difference. In fact, energy conservation played a significant role in ending California's crisis four years ago.
 But as you might expect, the administration's conservation push lacks conviction. President Bush has spoken in favor of conservation, but he seems more interested in trying to justify the Iraq war. And the administration's attempt to promote ''Energy Hog,'' a cartoon pig in a leather jacket, as a conservation mascot verges on the pathetic.
 So it's going to be a long, cold winter. But what about the longer term?
 The long-term case for energy conservation doesn't have much to do with the current shortages. Instead, it's about national security, broadly defined -- reduced dependence on Middle East oil supplies, reduced emission of greenhouse gases. But one might have hoped that the administration's new willingness to use the language of conservation would spill over into long-run policy.
 No such luck: when it comes to substantive actions, as opposed to public relations, it's still the same old, same old. Mr. Bush has called for more refineries, but has said nothing about raising mileage requirements and efficiency standards for appliances. And as for a higher gasoline tax, which would be politically possible only with broad bipartisan backing -- don't be silly.
 Conservation's day will come. But it hasn't happened yet. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); OIL & GAS PRODUCTION (88%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (88%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (88%); ENERGY POLICY (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (74%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); HEATING OIL (70%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (70%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (67%); HURRICANES (65%); WEATHER (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ENRON CORP (50%)

TICKER: ENRNQ (OTC) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (74%); SAMUEL W BODMAN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2005



138 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: BUSINESSES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Wheels of Government Move Slowly for Owners Who Await Word on Loans

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON and RON NIXON

 BODY:
More than 7,000 businesses battered by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita have turned to the Small Business Administration for help -- with almost no luck so far.
 Just 20 business loans had been approved as of yesterday, totaling less than $900,000. And only $8,000 of that has been paid out.
 The slow pace of the agency's response is stirring up complaints along the Gulf Coast. 
 ''By the time they get to me, it's going to be too late,'' said Ronald W. Romanowski, who in May began a business called Executive Rentals in Baton Rouge, La. ''I needed this help in September.''
 Mr. Romanowski was one of the business owners who packed meetings held on Tuesday in Louisiana sponsored by Representative Bobby Jindal, a Republican who represents part of New Orleans and its suburbs. Mr. Jindal said he was grateful that the agency had sent representatives to the meetings, but complained that its response to the businesses was too much like the government's early reaction to Hurricane Katrina.
 ''There just didn't seem to be an institutional urgency,'' he said. ''It shows no understanding of the reality people are facing on the ground.''
 The Small Business Administration has the ability to help after a disaster by providing loans to cover financial injuries, as well as uninsured property losses. It also lends money to homeowners and renters to help them replace property and repair houses.
 But the agency has been criticized for slow responses and high rejection rates. After the Sept. 11 attacks, some New York business owners complained that the agency was offering the least help to the small businesses that had been most hurt.
 The agency has also drawn fire in Washington, where the House Small Business Committee is scheduled to hold a hearing today to examine, among other issues, problems with the agency's new Internet-based loan-processing system.
 ''What we are hearing is that the new loan system is incapable of processing requests in a timely manner,'' said Representative Nydia M. Velazquez of New York, who is the ranking Democrat on the committee.
 Agency officials disagree. ''I'm here to tell you that it's not the system,'' said Herbert L. Mitchell, the associate administrator for disaster assistance.
 Mr. Mitchell attributed the small number of loans approved to the devastation caused by the hurricanes, the high volume of loan requests and the fact that many business owners cannot get access to their records.
 Agency officials noted that they had hired 2,100 people to supplement the nearly 900-member disaster staff. They said they had approved 586 applications over all, including many from homeowners to repair and rebuild their houses.
 In all, the agency has paid out $207,000 on 23 loans -- all but two to homeowners.
 Some experts say that the agency was troubled even before the hurricanes hit and that the new computer system has not helped.
 ''They said the process would be streamlined and ready to go,'' said Ann Dugan, executive director of the Institute for Entrepreneurial Excellence at the University of Pittsburgh, which tried to help businesses get loans after a flood last year.
 ''But then there were glitches,'' Ms. Dugan said, adding that 80 percent of her clients gave up on the agency and tried to find other ways to rebuild.
 The agency's efforts are not winning plaudits from business owners like Anita Park Rosenbaum, who runs a jewelry store with her daughter in Fairhope, Ala., across the bay from Mobile. After she could not fill out a loan application over the Internet, she printed out pages and pages of forms and filled them out, Ms. Rosenbaum said from Cleveland, where she landed after fleeing the hurricane. 
 The forms said she should receive a response in 14 to 21 days, she said. ''It's been four weeks at least,'' she said, ''and I haven't even gotten so much as, 'We got your forms in the mail.'''
 In Louisiana, confusion and misinformation reign.
 ''We were assured at first that we would qualify for a loan, then told that we didn't; now no one is sure,'' said Sarah Kracke, who runs a nonprofit economic development organization called Greater New Orleans Inc.
 Ms. Kracke said: ''We get disparate information that changes on a daily basis. The whole process is appalling and goes contrary to everything we've been told about applying for S.B.A. loans.''
 Some of the problems that business owners are experiencing cannot be laid at the feet of the agency. Ronald P. Gros, the chief financial officer of an auto dealership in Slidell, La., said he was working on the forms to receive the two kinds of S.B.A. loans -- for physical damage and for economic losses.
 But before Mr. Gros applies, an insurance adjuster will have to take a look at the damage at Brian Harris Pontiac Buick GMC Inc. Businesses must use their own insurance before turning to the federal agency.
 There is bound to be damage in excess of his insurance, Mr. Gros said. ''We had two to five feet of water in our buildings,'' he said.
 And many people in the gulf states fear that a loan program is not an adequate response, and are hoping for grant programs or some other assistance. 
 One of them is Mr. Romanowski, whose business involves supplying and cleaning specially embroidered dress shirts for other businesses. The shirt maker he used was located in Jefferson Parish and was knocked out of operation by the hurricanes.
 Despite efforts by Louisiana congressmen and by several chambers of commerce, Mr. Romanowski said, ''It seems like small business is being left to fend for itself.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ronald W. Romanowski is still waiting for word on a government loan. (Photo by Lori Waselchuk for The New York Times)Chart: ''In Line for Help''Of the 61,780 applications for Small Business Administration disaster loans, which go to homeowners as well as businesses, the number that have been:Approved, funds sent: 23Approved, funds not yet sent: 563Pending: 39,937Declined: 6,037Declined in preprocessing: 14,868 (Includes those declined for failing a credit check)Withdrawn: 352(Source by Small Business Administration)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); APPROVALS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (89%); HOMEOWNERS (86%); WEATHER (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); DISASTER RELIEF (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); TERRORISM (64%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GULF COAST WATER AUTHORITY (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (94%)

PERSON: BOBBY JINDAL (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST US (92%) NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2005



139 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE COSTS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Republicans in Congress Seek Budget Cuts for Storm Relief

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE; Edmund L. Andrews contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 6 

 BODY:
Jettisoning earlier reservations, Congressional Republican leaders say they intend to cut spending to pay for hurricane relief along the Gulf Coast, setting up a major confrontation over what programs to pick and the depth of the reductions.
 Representative Jim Nussle, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the House Budget Committee, called Thursday for across-the-board spending cuts and urged lawmakers to increase the savings Republicans hope to gain from a budget bill this fall to a minimum of $50 billion, from $35 billion.
 House leaders presented a similar proposal to the full Republican membership on Thursday night and promised to move forward quickly. 
 ''We'd better get started and we'd better do it now,'' Mr. Nussle said.
 Senate Republican leaders have joined in, directing their committee chairmen to find more than $35 billion in savings while establishing a task force to identify ways to pay for the back-to-back hurricanes.
 ''Congress needs to make tough choices to ensure that the federal response to these disasters is responsible,'' the full Senate majority leadership said in a letter to the chairmen.
 It is a marked change in tone from the days immediately after Hurricane Katrina, when Congress rushed through more than $60 billion in aid and Republican leaders were lukewarm to the idea of spending cuts to compensate. But Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire and chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, said the mood had shifted when lawmakers focused on the monumental costs. 
 President Bush also contributed to the push for cuts when he told reporters this week that ''Congress needs to pay for as much of the hurricane relief as possible by cutting spending,'' and promised to work with lawmakers to identify ways to save. 
 But getting behind the idea of cuts is much easier than enacting them. Democrats and some Republicans are certain to oppose many of the ideas, particularly those that would scale back spending on programs for the poor, among the hardest hit by the storm. The difficulty was illustrated on Thursday when the Senate Agriculture Committee was forced to cancel a session to consider $3 billion in cuts -- including $574 million for food stamps -- after disagreements erupted. 
 ''As usual, the prime targets are the poor and others who rely on federal programs for their health, education, disability, agriculture and veterans' benefits,'' said Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa, the senior Democrat on the Agriculture Committee.
 At the same time, lawmakers from Louisiana and elsewhere continue to clamor for more relief. 
 On Thursday night, as part of a package of bills, the House approved $500 million in aid to Hurricane Katrina victims. The aid, which would help states pay unemployment benefits to storm victims, would be financed by stopping federal payments for impotence drugs. 
 Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the Finance Committee, assailed the White House at a hearing on Thursday with Treasury Secretary John W. Snow. Mr. Grassley accused the administration of trying to scuttle his plan to extend federal Medicaid benefits to hurricane victims whose incomes are at poverty level and to have the federal government pick up the full cost of those benefits for the next five months.
 ''Unfortunately, the White House is working against me behind the scenes, and I resent that, considering how I have worked for the White House in the past several years,'' said Mr. Grassley, who would play a pivotal role in moving any spending and tax cut package through Congress.
 Democrats say Republicans are seizing on the hurricanes to force through spending reductions to offset $70 billion in tax cuts, not storm costs. House Democrats earlier this week asked Republicans to abandon any talk of more tax cuts this year.
 Democrats also say that Republicans are trying to find ways to pay for the hurricane costs but have made no similar effort to pay for the war in Iraq.
 ''Why offset the rebuilding of Biloxi but not the rebuilding of Baghdad?'' asked Representative John M. Spratt Jr. of South Carolina, the senior Democrat on the Budget Committee.
 While Republicans have mixed views on renewing tax cuts due to expire in the next few years, many say they are essential to maintaining a strong economy. And Mr. Gregg, the budget chairman, said Democrats should specify which of the popular tax cuts they wanted to let expire.
 Immediately after the storm, Republican leaders seemed willing to simply add the costs of the relief effort to the deficit. But a handful of conservatives in the House and Senate began saying that Republicans needed to re-assert their position as a party of fiscal responsibility.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET (92%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATORS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); WEATHER (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); MILITARY BENEFITS (60%); FOOD STAMPS (60%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%); VETERANS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JIM NUSSLE (72%); JUDD ALAN GREGG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST US (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2005



140 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; On Baseball; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Is It Money That Matters in the Postseason? Yes and No

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
IF playoffs were decided strictly by money, the Yankees would beat the Los Angeles Angels, the Red Sox would dirty the White Sox, St. Louis would dispatch San Diego, and Houston would impose yet another postseason failure on Atlanta. 
 But dollar signs don't win games; the Yankees have learned that painful fact of baseball life the past four years.
Once again the Yankees have the highest payroll among the eight postseason teams. That fact isn't news, but their end-of-season payroll has a new number. It's $202,978,809, according to management data obtained by The New York Times. Make it $203 million for simplicity's sake, only slightly higher than it was at the beginning of the year. 
 This is how the other postseason teams stacked up at the end of the year, with major league ranks in parentheses:
 Red Sox (2nd): 126,800,160
 Angels (5th): 96,140,560
 Cardinals (10th): 83,510,604
 Astros (11th): 77,453,843
 Braves (12th): 74,977,433
 White Sox (13th): 74,273,478
 Padres (15th): 70,503,572
 As the figures show, teams with 4 of the top 10 payrolls are in the playoffs. Last year, 6 of the top 10 played in the postseason, and the other two teams were 12th (Atlanta) and 21st (Minnesota). This year 4 of the next 5 teams outside the top 10 made it, with no team from the lower half included. That means no team made it from the third and fourth quartiles of payrolls.
 Quartiles were popular several years ago when the commissioner's blue-ribbon panel conducted an economic study and reported that only teams in the first quartile had a chance to reach the playoffs and win it all. That was before teams like the Angels and the Florida Marlins knocked off the wealthy Yankees.
 Interestingly, the Yankees, who are in a quartile all their own, wouldn't be in these playoffs if not for some of their least expensive players. 
 Aaron Small, an emergency call-up from their minor league system in July, earned $149,180 for his remarkable 10-0 record. That was the prorated portion of the $350,000 salary his contract called for. Small, a 33-year-old right-hander, may get more from a postseason share than from his salary. 
 Chien-Ming Wang, who was a victim of errors and unearned runs in Game 2 of the division series against the Angels, joined the Yankees a few weeks into the season, compiled an 8-5 record and earned $274,557 based on the major league minimum salary of $316,000.
 Shawn Chacon, whom the Yankees acquired in desperation from Colorado on July 28, had a $2.35 million salary with the Rockies, and the Yankees paid $860,382 of that. Al Leiter, obtained from the Marlins on July 16, cost the Yankees $1,678,291.
 But remember the game Leiter pitched against the Red Sox the day after the trade, his 5-3 victory. Maybe that game was the one that enabled the Yankees to finish with a 10-9 record in the season series, an outcome that gave the Yankees first place over the Red Sox. 
 When the season began, the Yankees had a starting rotation whose collective 2005 salary of $64 million was higher than the entire payrolls of 14 of the other 29 teams. Gone from that rotation are Kevin Brown ($15,714,286), Carl Pavano ($9 million) and Jaret Wright ($5,666,667). 
 Other teams have griped about how the Yankees spend lavishly to overcome injuries, correct mistakes or bolster some questionable part of their team, but they haven't done any of that this year. 
 They replaced $30,380,953 worth of starting pitchers with $1,284,119 worth of starting pitchers. Instead of criticism, they deserve accolades for fiscal responsibility.
 Now when has anyone ever accused George Steinbrenner of practicing fiscal responsibility? Has he set a precedent for the future, given a glimpse of Steinbrenner spending to come, or will he have to erupt in an orgy of new spending to make people forget his brief moment of economic sanity? Steinbrenner wouldn't want to ruin his reputation, would he?
 Not that he has to. The Yankees can't turn a corner without making money, lots of it. They start a new cable network, and they add $150 million a year to their coffers. The owner stops denigrating the Bronx, and the Yankees draw more than 4 million in attendance. Winning helps drive both of those revenue streams, and Steinbrenner has fueled winning with his spending.
 The owner of the Angels of Anaheim and Los Angeles -- 40 years ago the Angels were legitimately in Los Angeles -- seeks to improve his revenue stream by hijacking the big city to the north. 
 Arte Moreno wants to play with the big boys and needs the money to do it. His payroll shrunk by $20 million this year, but the Angels repeated as division champions nevertheless. Moreno wants to try to guarantee annual repeats and figures he can fool people into buying into the Los Angeles brand. 
 A California judge eventually will decide whether to let Moreno play his ludicrous geographical game, but the city of Anaheim, which has brought the suit, may have difficulty demonstrating that Moreno's ploy has hurt the city. 
 Commissioner Bud Selig is the authority who could have cut off Moreno at the pass, but he opted to let him rename the team. Selig has declined to discuss the matter, but it's likely that he felt the name change might spur additional revenue for the Angels -- and any increase is good -- while not inflicting damage, economic or otherwise, on the Dodgers. 
 At least the Yankees haven't intruded on another team's economy.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Chien-Ming Wang went 8-5 as a starter for the Yankees. He made a throwing error in the seventh inning of the Yankees' Game 2 loss in Anaheim.
 The Angels' pitcher John Lackey went to his knees to stay on first base and get Jorge Posada out in Game 2. (Photographs by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS (90%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); ANAHEIM ANGELS (93%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (53%); HOUSTON ASTROS (52%); ATLANTA BRAVES (52%); SAN DIEGO PADRES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%) GEORGIA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2005



141 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Retailers Are Planning Markdowns In Advance of the Holiday Season
Retailers, worried that rising gasoline prices and a pair of hurricanes will spoil the crucial holiday shopping season, are already planning broad markdowns to lure cost-conscious consumers into their stores. [Page C1.] 


Wal-Mart, whose shoppers tend to skip through the clothing department and head straight for the laundry detergent, is creating a line of urban fashions. The clothing line, called Metro 7, will offer sheer printed tunics with beaded neckline, distressed jeans and silk camisoles. Complete outfits, including tops and bottoms, can be put together for under $35. [C7.]

So Far Few Loans for Businesses Hurt by Hurricanes
More than 7,000 businesses battered by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita have turned to the Small Business Administration for help -- with almost no luck so far. Just 20 business loans had been approved as of yesterday, totaling less than $900,000. And only $8,000 of that has been paid out. [A16.]

Weinsteins Set to Raise Equity for New Studio
Bob and Harvey Weinstein, the former heads of Miramax, are on their way to raising more than $420 million in equity for their new movie studio within weeks, people briefed on their fund-raising efforts say. [C1.]

U.S. Faces a Wait in Obtaining Flu Drug
As concern about a flu pandemic sweeps official Washington, Congress and the Bush administration are considering spending billions to buy the anti-influenza drug Tamiflu. But after months of delay, the United States will now have to wait in line to get the pills. [A22.]

Amid growing fears of a pandemic, pharmaceutical companies are resurrecting development of flu drugs that had languished. [C1.]

Experimental Drug by Merck Shows Promise
An experimental vaccine made by Merck has proved highly effective at preventing cervical cancer in a two-year study involving more than 12,000 women, researchers reported. [A14.]

Stocks Decline on Concerns About the Economy
Economic worries caused stocks to fall. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 30.26, to 10,287.10, adding to a loss of 218.12 over the previous two sessions. The Nasdaq dropped 18.94, to 2,084.08, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 4.90, to 1,191.49. [C7.]

DirecTV to Begin Ads for Digital Recorders
DirecTV, the satellite company, is introducing a $30 million advertising campaign to promote its highly anticipated new digital video recorder. [C5.]

Bill to Increase Refinery Capacity Draws Criticism
Critics are charging that a bill to give the oil industry incentives to increase refinery capacity would gut air-quality protections that currently govern the refining and power industries. [A24.]

Details on Compensation of Disney's New Chief
Robert A. Iger, left, who took over as Walt Disney's chief executive on Saturday, will earn $2 million a year in salary and is eligible for a yearly bonus of about $7.25 million as long as the company meets certain performance standards, according to federal documents filed yesterday. [C3.]

MCI Shareholders Approve Verizon Deal
Shareholders of MCI approved a proposed $8.4 billion sale of the company to Verizon Communications, removing the biggest hurdle to a deal that will create one of the world's biggest telecommunications carriers. [C13.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows Wal-Mart Stores and their daily closes since July, 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); INFLUENZA (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); WEATHER (89%); EPIDEMICS (87%); ANTIVIRALS (87%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (86%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CLOTHING LABELS (76%); FASHION & APPAREL (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); HURRICANE KATRINA (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (72%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (72%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (71%); EXPERIMENTAL DRUGS (70%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (69%); APPROVALS (68%); VACCINES (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); FUNDRAISING (67%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (66%); CANCER (65%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (65%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (62%); PLANT CAPACITY (60%); EXECUTIVES (60%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (60%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (60%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (60%); CD & DVD DRIVES (50%); CERVICAL CANCER (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (56%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (55%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (55%)

PERSON: ROBERT A IGER (56%); BOB WEINSTEIN (51%); HARVEY WEINSTEIN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2005



142 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: An American Investor Rides the Merger Wave in France, to Labor's Chagrin

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE

DATELINE: PARIS, Oct. 6 

 BODY:
When Walter Butler came forth with a plan to turn around the state-owned ferry company that links the south of France with the island of Corsica, some French government officials reacted with surprise, but then with total comprehension.
 The surprise was because they thought he was one of them. After all, he had graduated from the elite National School of Administration in Paris, and then passed from government ministries to Goldman Sachs, and afterwards became a founding principal in a venture capital firm, Butler Capital Partners. 
 With their economy limping, many in France fear mergers and acquisitions, seeing them as the work mainly of vulture capitalists intent on stripping a company of its valuable assets and leaving the rest for dead. He sees them as shaking up a stolid and resisting France.
 The fund is now riding the wave of mergers and acquisitions sweeping Europe and he sees no letup. ''Market inefficiencies are greater in Europe,'' Mr. Butler said in an interview.
 What made people understand Mr. Butler's move was his history of successful turnarounds in France, where he has gained wide notice for his ability to deal with governments and trade unions to get his way.
 Mr. Butler, 49, an American citizen who was born in Brazil, the son of an American businessman, clearly enjoys challenges. Comfortably ensconced in a senior ministerial job, he switched to investment banking in 1988, joining Goldman Sachs in New York, then seeking three years later to build something for himself by founding Butler Capital Partners, now one of the best-known, if not biggest, venture capital firms in France.
 He denies that venture capital funds like his are in for the short haul. About half of his investors are American funds, which he says are required to seek long-term investments. France, he says, is going through a debate roughly similar to the one that shook the United States 10 or 15 years ago. ''You know, vulture capitalists, the barbarians at the gate,'' he said.
 By any measure, the task of turning around the National Corsican-Mediterranean Company, known by its initials S.N.C.M., is both daunting and symbolic. The government has proposed privatizing the line, which ferries passengers and cars, and reportedly wants to eliminate 400 of the 2,400 workers.
 Mr. Butler has offered to acquire 40 percent of the line's equity, making his fund the single largest shareholder, followed by the government, which would retain 25 percent.
 Now the government, and Mr. Butler, face obstruction from several sides: in Marseille, the company's employees are striking to protest the possible job losses. On Corsica, labor aggressiveness has become entwined with Corsican nationalism, with workers demanding the ferries be put under Corsican control. 
 When the strikers hijacked a ferry last week, the government ordered army commandos to land on the ship, seize control and steer it to a military port on the French coast.
 Mr. Butler's reputation as a turnaround artist fuels labor mistrust, and union leaders regularly call him a ''financial adventurer.'' In 1994, Mr. Butler's fund acquired the French advertising group BDDP, and three years later when it was absorbed into the Omnicom Group, the fund's investment had roughly quadrupled.
 At about that time, the fund acquired Osiatis, a small electronics company, ultimately increasing the fund's stake to 83 percent. Since the takeover, the work force has increased to 2,600, from 600, but the unions, and many people in France, share the view that foreign investors are marauders.
 ''In France you may make a profit, but without being too profit-minded,'' said Alain Minc, a financier and author. ''As for Butler, he is very profit-minded. He's been quite successful on many deals.''
 That very activity has unsettled many in France.
 When rumors circulated last summer that Danone, the food and dairy group, was being stalked by PepsiCo, the public uproar was so great that the government proposed enacting rules to limit foreign takeovers. And when Hewlett-Packard announced later that it was shedding thousands of jobs in France, President Jacques Chirac appealed to the European Union, to no avail, to intervene.
 Mr. Butler, boyish and relaxed, admits that turning a company around sometimes requires closing some operations. 
 He insists that involving labor unions is crucial. ''If you don't deal with them, you don't belong in the business,'' he said. 
 Last year, when the fund acquired the agricultural company France Champignon, a mushroom company, one of its three factories was shut. ''We had an agreement with the unions,'' he said. ''They understood.''
 Of France's labor unions, he said: ''They're part of the culture here. If you don't deal with them, you don't belong in the business.''
 In part, too, he says, France suffers from an absence of pension funds, meaning the venture capitalist funds must rely in large measure on pension funds and other investment funds from Britain and the United States, fueling the notion that France is hostage to foreign money.
 While many in France attacked the idea of an American company's taking control of Danone, he said, they failed to notice that more than 60 percent of Danone's equity is already owned by American and British funds.
 As for the Corsican ferry service, he said, ''What we can see here is how bad the state can be as a shareholder.'' 
 Over the last decade, he said, the government poured 1.3 billion euros ($1.6 billion at current exchange rates) into the company. ''It's become a symbol,'' he said. ''Will the government be able to privatize it?''
 Above all, he said, ''we must have an agreement with the unions; that is our philosophy.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Walter Butler of Butler Capital Partners has plans to turn around a state-owned ferry operator. (Photo by Ed Alcock for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERGERS (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (89%); FERRIES (89%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); STRIKES (71%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); INTERVIEWS (67%); HIJACKING (65%); ARMIES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (88%) CORSE, FRANCE (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) FRANCE (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2005



143 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Editorial Observer; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: War Criminal vs. European Union Should Be an Easy Choice

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH

 BODY:
As a Croatian-American, I have spent more time thinking about the public image of that small Balkan nation than has the vast majority of people outside its borders. When it stepped into the diplomatic limelight with a supporting role in the recent drama over Turkey's membership in the European Union, my instinct was to pray the attention would end as quickly and quietly as possible. Croatia should be calm and cooperative, enjoying the unlikely good fortune of recent years rather than jeopardizing it for an accused war criminal.
 This past March, the E.U. refused to begin membership negotiations with Croatia as scheduled because Croatia had failed to arrest a general indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia. Talks were still halted when Austria chose last weekend's crucial 11th-hour negotiations over Turkey as the moment to push for Croatia's bid. Turkey has human rights problems, too, was one of the arguments advanced. As a volunteer spokesman for Croatia, I would humbly suggest that it could improve on ''No worse than Turkey'' as a slogan. 
In my experience, explaining that your family hailed from the eastern shore of the Adriatic Sea was never easy. In the 1980's, Croatia was part of Yugoslavia, a country best known here for its cheap, unreliable car, the Yugo. In turn, the car was best known for jokes, like: ''How do you get a Yugo to go over 60 miles an hour? Push it off a cliff.'' 
 In the 1990's, I could most easily explain my heritage by saying, ''You know, where the war is.'' It was the nasty, brutal neighborhood in the otherwise optimistic Europe. Most Americans didn't know Marshal Tito from Tito Jackson. I had gotten used to a little embarrassment. 
 The war ground to a halt, and it was the Serbs who emerged as the prominent bad guys, and Slobodan Milosevic as the one Balkan villain who penetrated American popular consciousness. Croats took part in the ethnic killings of the era but were overshadowed in this dubious distinction by the Serbs. Croatia was independent, and one could breathe a sigh of relief. 
 Then things took an unexpectedly positive turn. It was a bit like being a New England Patriots fan. For years your team is a punch line, the next thing you know it has championship trophies and bragging rights.
 In 1998, the Croatian national soccer team made it to the semifinals of the World Cup, a spectacular achievement for an infant nation of around 4.5 million people. The tall, lanky tennis player Goran Ivanisevic won Wimbledon in 2001. Seeing Croatian flags waved in celebration, I felt a growing pride. Friends began asking me for vacation advice. They wanted to visit the historic town of Dubrovnik or stunning islands like Hvar, where my grandfather quarried stone as a young man. 
 This past February, the staffers of the popular Lonely Planet guidebooks named Croatia the top travel destination in the world for 2005. Not a top destination, but the top destination, just ahead of some place called China, with a pretty big wall and rather famous cuisine.
 Perhaps that was what led to the debacle with the E.U. the very next month. A little buzz went straight to a small country's head. Suddenly Croatia thought it could throw its weight around, and would be embraced by the E.U. despite criticism from The Hague. 
 Unfortunately, I believe the problem runs a bit deeper. Traveling through the country a few years ago, I found it hard to miss the bullet-pocked walls and the blackened foundations of razed houses. But I also noticed the ubiquity of the Croatian flag. If I had to guess, I would say there were four flags for every person in the country. 
 There is pride, and there is hypernationalism. Alas, the birthplace of my family tends toward the latter.
 The chief United Nations war crimes prosecutor, Carla Del Ponte, said Monday that Croatia was cooperating fully in the search for Gen. Ante Gotovina, and the E.U. reopened membership talks. Rather than seeing this as a victory, Croatians should recognize it for what it is: a bullet dodged. 
 Croatia needs the E.U., which according to the organization accounts for 70 percent of its trade. In contrast, Croatia scrapes together less than 1 percent of total E.U. trade. One side holds all the cards, and that side is not Croatia. 
 More important, where else does the little Balkan country turn for allies? Albania? Serbia?
 Croatia also needs good P.R. more than other countries. Thanks to its breathtaking coastline, its economic growth relies in large part on a huge tourism industry. Fewer people want to bask on the beach in the home of the unreconstructed war criminals. 
 I am rooting for you, Croatia, and will keep coming back. Most people can just as easily go somewhere else.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR CRIMES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (84%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); TENNIS (77%); SPORTS (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (76%); INDICTMENTS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (64%); HISTORIC SITES (64%); ATHLETES (63%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (63%); SPORTS AWARDS (63%); SOCCER (60%); SPORTS & RECREATION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); UNITED NATIONS INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL TRIBUNAL FOR THE FORMER YUGOSLAVIA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (79%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%) CROATIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); SERBIA (79%); AUSTRIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2005



144 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: Job Losses Are Below Expectations 

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER and VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Employment contracted at an unexpectedly modest pace in September, underscoring the American economy's strength in the first broad snapshot since Hurricane Katrina hit Louisiana and Mississippi in August. 
 The Department of Labor reported yesterday that the economy lost 35,000 jobs in September, the first contraction since May 2003. The unemployment rate rose for the first time in seven months, inching up to 5.1 percent in September from 4.9 percent in August.
Job losses appeared to be concentrated in the disaster area. They were offset by strong employment growth in the rest of the country, which confirmed the continued strength of the economic expansion. 
 ''The United States economy continues to impress with its resilience,'' said Scott Anderson, senior economist at Wells Fargo in Milwaukee. ''The economic expansion will survive the hurricanes intact.''
 Philip L. Rones, deputy commissioner of the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics, told the Joint Economic Committee of Congress that employment growth outside the areas directly affected by the storm continued at a clip of about 194,000 new jobs a month, the same rate as the prior 12 months. This was consistent, he said, with a loss of about 230,000 payroll jobs because of Hurricane Katrina.
 The decline in nonfarm payrolls in September, moreover, was accompanied by revisions that added 77,000 jobs to the earlier estimates for employment in July and August.
 ''This strikes me as unambiguously good news,'' said Richard DeKaser, chief economist at the National City Corporation in Cleveland. ''This suggests that beyond the most severely affected areas the labor market continues to improve at a healthy clip.''
 To be sure, the panorama could get worse. The September employment estimates are particularly patchy and likely to be revised in October and November. ''There's no way we've seen all the storm-related layoffs in the data,'' said Jared Bernstein, a labor economist at the Economic Policy Institute, a Washington research institute. 
 Moreover, September's report is based on surveys early in the month and does not account for Hurricane Rita, which came ashore on Sept. 24 and is expected to affect employment levels in October. But so far, the data indicates that the impact to employment was modest even in the areas directly hit by Katrina.
 "In a way it's almost encouraging to see a number that small," said Loren Scott, an economic consultant and professor emeritus at Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge, of the estimated 230,000 jobs lost. He noted that 617,000 people were employed in the New Orleans Metropolitan area alone, and much of it was submerged by Katrina. ''The numbers could have been much larger,'' Mr. Scott added.
 Wall Street economists were equally surprised. After looking at several weeks of big jumps in unemployment insurance claims, they were expecting a drop of around 150,000 payroll jobs nationwide. Some had argued that the blow from the storm could force the Federal Reserve to take a break from its long succession of interest rate increases.
 The employment picture, however, seemed to confirm the view expressed by Fed officials after their Sept. 20 meeting that Katrina's impact on the economy would be transitory and of limited significance. 
 ''This closes the book on the argument that the Fed may have to pause its interest hike agenda to cushion the blow,'' said Mr. Anderson of Wells Fargo.
 Financial markets reacted modestly to the latest employment data. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 4.41 points, to 1,195.90. The price of the 10-year Treasury bond was moderately higher.
 The effect of Katrina could be seen in the industry composition of job gains and losses. Employment in the leisure and hospitality industry, a big employer in New Orleans, fell by 80,000. Food service payrolls fell by 54,000. But temporary help services had an increase of 32,000, partly bolstered by employment in the post-Katrina recovery effort. 
 More broadly, the construction industry continued to grow nationwide, adding 23,000 jobs. Retail jobs fell by 88,000 after increasing on average by 18,000 a month for the last year. Manufacturing payrolls were down by 27,000, with 18,000 of them being striking Boeing machinists who returned to work late last month.
 Economists noted that employment growth could bounce back as some of the economic headwinds dissipate. In particular, the price of oil has declined and is now below where it was when the storm hit in August. 
 And the experience from previous disasters indicates that job growth tends to bounce back once the reconstruction effort takes hold. In 1992, after Hurricane Andrew hit Florida, job growth fell from 137,000 in August to 37,000 in September. But in October, payrolls bounced back by 173,000.
 ''This will probably not be that much different than other disasters,'' said Michael Strauss, chief economist at Commonfund. ''It will have a greater magnitude. But the rebuilding process will probably strengthen growth'' starting at the end of this year and early next year.
 Already, small businesses like contractors and restaurants in the New Orleans area cannot find enough workers because much of the population has not and cannot return home, said R. Charles Hodson Jr., state director for the National Federation of Independent Business in Louisiana. ''A lot of folks were paid slightly above minimum wage'' before the storm, Mr. Hodson said. ''And FEMA is paying people $9 or $10 an hour for cleanup-type jobs.''
 The new employment estimates should be taken with a larger than usual pinch of salt, however. The Department of Labor had to make a number of assumptions and tweak the data to deal with the fact that many homes and businesses in New Orleans and parts of Mississippi were, understandably, not answering their phones. 
 Only 57 percent of businesses surveyed in Louisiana for the payroll report responded. Only 62 percent responded in Mississippi, compared with the national average of 67 percent. 
 The Census Bureau, which does the household survey used to estimate the unemployment rate, did fewer interviews than usual in Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. It did no interviews in Louisiana's devastated Orleans and Jefferson Parishes. The bureau also did no interviews in temporary shelters or hotels.
 ''It's hard to do a household survey when the household isn't there,'' said John C. Robertson, senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. ''The imprecision has increased a lot.''
 Assumptions had to be made that will probably require further revisions to the data. Businesses that could not be reached or otherwise checked were assumed to have stopped operating and to have zero employment.
 All workers who were being paid were counted as employed, even if they were not working because their employer was underwater and thus unlikely to keep paying them for long. ''We know that can't continue,'' Mr. Scott said. ''My guess is we will get another ding when October numbers come out.''

 SEPT.: 66.2%
1-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.
1-YEAR CHANGE: +0.3

Labor force (workers and unemployed)
SEPT.: 62.8
1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.1
1-YEAR CHANGE: +0.5

'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENT
In millions

Working part time, but want full-time work
SEPT.: 4.6
1-MONTH CHANGE: +2.2%
1-YEAR CHANGE: +0.4%

Persons who currently want a job<7>
SEPT.: 4.8+
1-MONTH CHANGE: -5.2
1-YEAR CHANGE: +6.3

UNEMPLOYED BY EDUCATION LEVEL

Less than high school
SEPT.: 8.2%
1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.6
1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.7

High school
SEPT.: 5.0
1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.3
1-YEAR CHANGE: +0.2

Some college
SEPT.: 3.6
1-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.
1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.4

Bachelor's or higher
SEPT.: 2.4
1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.3
1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.2

BY TYPE OF WORK
In millions

Nonfarm
SEPT.: 134.0
1-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.
1-YEAR CHANGE: +1.6%

Goods
SEPT.: 22.1
1-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.
1-YEAR CHANGE: +0.9

Services
SEPT.: 111.9
1-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.
1-YEAR CHANGE: +1.8

Agriculture
SEPT.: 2.1
1-MONTH CHANGE: -1.7
1-YEAR CHANGE: -3.6

Note: figures are seasonally adjusted, except where noted.
*Hispanics can be of any race.
+Not seasonally adjusted.
<7>People not working who say they would like to. Includes discouraged workers or those who cannot work for reasons including ill health.

(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C4)

CORRECTION-DATE: October 12, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day on Saturday with an article about the United States unemployment rate, which rose slightly in September, reversed numbers showing workers as a share of the population. In September, 62.8 percent of the population was employed, 0.1 percent less than the month before and 0.5 percent more than the year before; 66.2 percent of the population was either working or unemployed and seeking work, the same as the month before and 0.3 percent more than the year before.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Patrick Narey researches resume writing techniques in downtown Pittsburgh after being laid off by a flood cleanup company. (Photo by Lisa Kyle/Bloomberg News)(pg. C4)Chart: ''The Labor Picture in September''Graph shows unemployment rate (5.1 percent)BY DEMOGRAPHICSWhiteSEPT.: 4.5%1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.31-YEAR CHANGE: -0.2BlackSEPT.: 9.41-MONTH CHANGE: -0.21-YEAR CHANGE: -1.0Hispanic*SEPT.: 6.51-MONTH CHANGE: +0.71-YEAR CHANGE: -0.5Asian +SEPT.: 4.1+1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.51-YEAR CHANGE: -0.2Teenagers (16-19)SEPT.: 15.81-MONTH CHANGE: -0.71-YEAR CHANGE: -0.8DURATION OF UNEMPLOYMENTIn weeksAverageSEPT.: 18.31-MONTH CHANGE: -3.2%1-YEAR CHANGE: -6.6%MedianSEPT.: 8.61-MONTH CHANGE: -8.51-YEAR CHANGE: -9.5Graph shows nonfarm payroll, 12-month change and employment for 2005.AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGSRank-and file workersSEPT.: $545.271-MONTH CHANGE: +0.2%1-YEAR CHANGE: +2.3%SHARE OF POPULATIONEmployed

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); HURRICANES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LAYOFFS (79%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (79%); JOB CREATION (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); WEATHER (78%); STATISTICS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); CITIES (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (66%); NATIONAL CITY CORP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%); PNC (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (66%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (66%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2005



145 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: The Numbers Don't Add Up to Confidence 

BYLINE: By Mark A. Stein

 BODY:
KNOCKED on its heels by natural disasters and a spike in energy prices, the economy staggered through the week, reeling from one statistic to another. Falling consumer confidence first noted late last month was compounded this week by a drop in corporate confidence, some disappointing earnings, weak retail sales and a chorus of inflation warnings. 
 An industrial bellwether, General Motors, also appeared to be bracing for the possibility of having to assume the pension and health care burdens of one of its parts suppliers, adding to its already considerable labor costs.

MIXED SIGNALS -- Factory orders jumped in August, posting their biggest increase in three months, and factory owners' sentiment rose to a 13-month high last month. The numbers, coming early in the week, suggested Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita might not have significantly slowed the economy.
Days later, however, the feeling was flagging. Service industries, which account for much more of the economy, grew at the slowest pace in more than two years. The Institute for Supply Management, which also gauged factory owner sentiment, said its index of services -- banks and brokers, retailers, builders and other nonmanufacturing businesses -- fell almost 12 points last month, the biggest decline since it was created in 1997.
 The institute attributed the slowdown to rising costs for raw materials, supplies and energy. That echoed warnings from Federal Reserve bankers this week that inflation was still a threat despite 11 interest rate increases since June 2004. 
 The most recent increase was just two weeks ago, when the Fed raised its benchmark rate to 3.75 percent.
 The news led some Wall Street analysts to talk of the possible return of stagflation, a combination of a slowing economy and accelerating inflation last seen in the early 1980's. As a result, stocks fell even as oil prices declined.
 Economists forecast economic growth will slow by up to one percentage point in the second half of the year. Job losses, including up to 400,000 just from the hurricanes, and rising prices for heating oil and natural gas are expected to contribute to the decline.

ANXIOUS SHOPPERS -- Uncertainty about the economy was reflected at shopping malls, as big retailers resorted to deep discounting to achieve their sales targets. Several major chains lowered their profit forecasts for coming months, raising concern about weakness in the all-important Christmas season.
 Discounters that focused on food and other staples, led by Wal-Mart, Target and Costco, did well last month. But many national clothing chains, including Gap, Ann Taylor and Talbots, said sales at stores open at least a year dropped up to 6 percent as customers shied away from discretionary purchases.
 Analysts said September sales had accurately foreshadowed Christmas sales in 9 years out of 10. One analyst, Richard Hastings at Bernard Sands, told The Associated Press that he expected to see the most aggressive discounting this holiday season since 2002.

BRIGHT SPOT -- There was some good news last week. Overall incomes rose 2.7 percent in 2003, the Internal Revenue Service said. Fully one-fourth of this increase, however, went to a sliver of the population -- the top tenth of 1 percent, the roughly 129,000 people who reported incomes of $1.3 million or more.
 The income of that group grew 9.5 percent in 2003, the latest year for which data from the I.R.S. has been studied. That beat the inflation rate, which was 2.3 percent. Incomes of others in the top 1 percent -- almost 1.3 million people who made at least $327,000 -- rose 3.7 percent, also beating inflation. The average income of all other taxpayers rose by a bit less than 2 percent, which suggests they actually lost some buying power.
 Among the world's major economies, America's disparity in incomes between the very top and everyone else is exceeded only by the gaps in Mexico and Russia.

MOTIVATED SELLER -- General Motors sold its 20 percent stake in Fuji Heavy Industries, the parent of Subaru, to Toyota for about $700 million, or roughly half its book value. G.M. had paid $1.3 billion for the Fuji investment in 1999 and recently carried it on its balance sheet for $1.5 billion.
 G.M. executives said that Fuji was not profitable and that cash from the sale would help finance their own fast-growing Asian operations. Analysts, however, said they suspected that G.M. struck the deal because it was eager to raise some quick cash for use in the United States.
 The company burned through more than $3 billion in cash in the first half of the year to finance its operations, and may soon be forced into a multibillion-dollar bailout of Delphi, a parts supplier it spun off in 1999. As a condition of the spinoff, G.M. guaranteed the jobs and pension benefits of Delphi's unionized workers.
 Squeezed between its above-average labor costs and price cuts demanded by customers, including G.M., Delphi may soon seek bankruptcy protection and ask G.M. to make good on its guarantee. Delphi said it would decide before Oct. 17, when a stricter bankruptcy law takes effect.

RELUCTANT BUYERS -- With average gasoline prices hovering near $3 a gallon, sales of large sport utility vehicles in September were down 43 percent from the month a year ago, according to Ward's AutoInfoBank. That is particularly bad news for G.M. and Ford, which depend on truck-based S.U.V.'s for a disproportionate share of their profits.
 President Bush has asked Americans to conserve gasoline, and gasoline consumption has fallen for four consecutive weeks. Consumer surveys have found that more people are looking to conserve and are reconsidering what kind of vehicle to buy. Carmakers are finding this is not an ideal time to sell their least fuel-efficient models, chiefly truck-based S.U.V.'s.
 Sales of Ford's biggest models -- Explorer, Expedition and Lincoln Navigator -- fell more than 50 percent from September a year earlier. That was in line with G.M.'s biggest S.U.V.'s; Chevrolet Suburban and Tahoe were off more than 50 percent, while the GMC Yukon was down 46 percent. Sales of the Hummer H2, made by G.M., fell 32 percent.
 G.M. plans to release a new generation of its medium and large S.U.V.'s early next year. Ford, which has already sold almost 15,000 of the higher-mileage hybrid versions of its Escape, a smaller S.U.V. known as a crossover vehicle, plans to produce 250,000 hybrid vehicles annually by 2010. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jim Johnson, a welder at Industrial Fabricators in Westerville, Ohio. Manufacturing was one of the week's few statistical bright spots. (Photo by Gary Gardiner/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); HURRICANES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); WEATHER (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); SALES PLAN (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); SAME STORE SALES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); HURRICANE KATRINA (73%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); CHRISTMAS (64%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (64%); INTEREST RATES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (69%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2005



146 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; BASIC INSTINCTS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: It May Be Time That Frugality Became Chic

BYLINE: By M.P. Dunleavey. 
M.P. Dunleavey writes about personal finance for MSN Money.

 BODY:
ONE thing I like about spending time with my husband's family on Cape Cod each year is that I get to enjoy a cornerstone of my own upbringing: the knack of being frugal.
 Although there are various ways the family is mindful of how it spends money, I notice it most around food. We bring snacks to the beach, shop according to what we're going to cook, eat in rather than out and repurpose even the smallest leftover so nothing goes to waste.
I love it, not that I'm a paragon of thrift myself. There is something comforting to me about the chance to stay in touch with values that seem smart, resourceful and virtually extinct in the rest of my life. 
 When I complained to a friend recently that frugality just wasn't hip anymore, she laughed. ''I don't think it was ever hip,'' she said.
 Well, maybe not. But like many 30-something Americans, I was raised by parents who were children of the Depression and World War II. Back then being thrifty was largely born of necessity, but it also commanded a longstanding respect as a virtue on its own -- not just a survival tactic in hard times. Even when I was growing up, phrases like ''A penny saved is a penny earned'' or ''Use it up, wear it out, make it do or do without'' were used in earnest. These days they seem about as quaint and useful as a hoop skirt. 
 One could argue that financial fashions come and go, but the fact that thrift seems out of style strikes me as a reflection of something strange and backward going on in people's attitudes and behaviors toward money. 
 It's not just that the personal savings rate (apart from retirement) is low -- it is the lowest it has been in 60 years, near zero by some calculations. At the same time, individual debt is at a record high. While some people are wealthier thanks to the rise in property values, more Americans have tapped out that equity than ever before.
 It's interesting that some of the debates in economics revolve around these trends. Pointing to the myriad ways people can get access to cash these days, even if it's borrowed, Christopher D. Carroll, a professor of economics at Johns Hopkins University, said: ''There's no question that the savings rate has declined. There's no question that the virtue of thrift has declined.''
 But, he added, ''This might be a rational response to a world that has less need for savings.''
 In the abstract, it does seem that the plethora of financial options available might have made thrift expendable, irrelevant, but at what cost? George Lowenstein, a professor of economics at Carnegie Mellon University who studies frugality, thinks that underneath all this getting and spending is a growing financial anxiety. ''People are worried about money, they are worried about not saving enough, about making ends meet,'' he said, ''so they try to persuade themselves they don't have a problem -- by spending, which only makes the problem worse.''
 You might think that when push comes to shove, most people would be able to make sensible budget decisions, but Dr. Lowenstein isn't so sure anymore.
 His most recent study on the difference between tightwads and spendthrifts produced an unexpected finding. In a neutral environment, subjects who tended to be more frugal naturally spent less than those who were more extravagant. But when frugal subjects were distracted, they tended to spend as much or more as their spendthrift counterparts.
 He concluded that being frugal was not only a fragile quality, for many people ''it's extremely vulnerable to environmental conditions.''
 I'd like to think that in the results of this study is a kernel of good news: under more supportive conditions frugality might thrive. I don't know what that would look like. You won't see ''Waste not, want not'' as a headline on the cover of InStyle magazine anytime soon. But if keeping up a facade of affluence is part of what's causing people to overspend and undersave, a quiet, unembarrassed acknowledgment of moderation might help one and all. 
 Or we can wait for the ball to drop. ''We may value frugality again if it turns out, in 10 or 15 years, as baby boomers reach retirement, that they discover they haven't saved enough,'' Dr. Carroll said. ''Then we may discover that frugality is more valuable than we thought.''
 Or perhaps we'll all sail well-heeled into our golden years, and the whole notion of thrift will simply fade away.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAVINGS RATES (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (84%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); TRENDS (76%); PERSONAL DEBT (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); WORLD WAR II (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2005



147 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; PERSONAL BUSINESS: YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: Why Do-It-Yourself Photo Printing Doesn't Add Up

BYLINE: By DAMON DARLIN

 BODY:
Prices of printers have dropped up to 30 percent in the last few months thanks to a savage price war. Is this then the time to buy a photo printer for your home?
 After all, for about $200 you can get the Hewlett-Packard Photosmart 8250 that in just 14 seconds spits out a photo that equals the quality of those coming back from the photo finisher in an hour. For the same price, Canon's iP6600D prints a borderless 4-by-6-inch photo in 46 seconds, but also prints on both sides of dual-side photo paper. 
The catch is that after you make an initial investment, you are going to pay at least 28 cents a print, if you believe the manufacturers' math. It could be closer to 50 cents a print if you trust the testing of product reviewers at Consumer Reports. 
 In the meantime, the price of printing a 4-by-6-inch snapshot at a retailer's photo lab, like those inside a Sam's Club, is as low as 13 cents. Snapfish.com, an online mail-order service, offers prints for a dime each if you prepay. At those prices, why bother printing at home? 
 Consumers seem to be saying just that. For the 12 months ended in July, home printing accounted for just 48 percent of the 7.7 billion digital prints made, down sharply from 64 percent in the previous 12 months, according to the Photo Marketing Association International, a trade group for retailers and camera makers. The number of photos spewing out of home printers is up quite handsomely, however, because of the overall growth of digital photo printing -- up about 68 percent from the year-earlier period -- but retail labs clearly have the advantage. 
 You might say this is an example of the wisdom of crowds. Despite the ceaseless efforts of manufacturers to convince consumers that printing at home is fast, convenient and a whole lot of fun, the evidence shows that many people are tuning out the marketing.
 It does not take an advanced business degree for those consumers to see how printer manufacturers like Hewlett-Packard and Canon make their money. They use the ''razor blade'' business model. It is named from the marketing innovation of King C. Gillette, who in the early years of the last century sold razors for a low price but made all his money on the high-margin disposable razor blades. Printer manufacturers also use this tied-product strategy. 
 Printers return relatively low profit margins. But the ink, ounce for ounce, is four times the cost of Krug Clos du Mesnil Champagne, which sells for around $425 a bottle. Ink is about the same price as Joy perfume, considered to be one of the more pricey fragrances, at $158 for a 2.5-ounce bottle. 
 They don't just get you on the ink. Some photo printers force you to buy the cartridge and paper together in a ''value pack.'' The ink or printer ribbon can run out before you are through with half the paper, so you risk building an ever-increasing stack of unused photo paper.
 The industry, from the photo finishers to the camera makers, has been concerned since the rise of the digital camera that consumers weren't printing enough pictures. There's a general sigh of relief that the percentage of printed photos has risen from 31 percent in 2003 to a projected 35 percent this year, the Photo Marketing Association says. The trend is slight, but it is in the right direction.
 The shallowness of the trend line also suggests that a new culture of photographs has been created. Consumers print their photos, but moreover, they share their photos more often and technology allows them to do it without printing. Cameras now come with liquid-crystal-display screens of 2.5 or 3 inches designed just for that purpose. 
 Consumers upload photos for free storage and sharing to Snapfish.com, Shutterfly.com or EasyShare.com, a service owned by Eastman Kodak. You no longer have to send printed snapshots to Grandma. You can send a URL. The growing popularity of these services is why Hewlett bought Snapfish and Kodak bought Ofoto.com to merge it into its online service. Wal-Mart and Costco have also created an online service for storing and printing photos. Snapfish allows you to order prints stored online for pickup at your nearest Walgreens. 
 Storage on the online services is free and for now, they offer limitless storage. Though each one has slightly different merchandise, you can also use them to print out albums, calendars and mugs with your uploaded photos on them. 
 Ben Nelson, the vice president and general manager of Snapfish, said that surveys of its customers found that 46 percent did home printing and 45 percent printed at retailers. ''We were kind of scratching our heads over that,'' Mr. Nelson said. What Snapfish came to realize, he said, is that consumers vary their behavior depending on the photo. If they want it now, they print at home. Those with 30 to 40 prints go to a retailer. If they are creating large projects like a mass mailing greeting card or a photo album, they seek a mail-order company.
 ''We've shifted our services to enable all three,'' he said.
 That's not to say that home printers are always an uneconomical proposition. If you want an 8-by-10-inch photo, a home printer will do it for about a third of the $3 a copy Walgreens charges. But before you make the plunge on these specialized printers, you should ask yourself how often are you going to do that kind of printing. Dimitrios Delis, who tracks facts and figures for the Photo Marketing Association, says that 85 percent of all prints are the classic 4 by 6 inches. 
 Any time you print in volumes -- like Christmas cards or the Little League team picture -- you'll be better off having the retailer handle it. ''If they want to make many prints at home, it is not economical or convenient,'' Mr. Delis said. 
 Prints made at home will certainly last a long time. That's certainly one good reason that these printers are popular with hobbyists and professionals. Independent studies say that home printers produce copies that should last 80 to 100 years without fading or yellowing, assuming you used leading inks and recommended photo paper. Marketers at Canon and Hewlett like to point out that those studies also show that prints made by photo processors decades ago now show signs of fading. (Today's photo processing machines are supposed to produce prints that will last as long as the home-printed versions.) 
 What may be the better solution is the home office printer that can double as a photo printer on those rare occasions that you are printing at home. Many come with separate ink tanks, so you don't have to replace all the colors when you inevitability run out of black ink. Canon sells clear cartridges for ink so you can verify when the ink is gone rather than rely on the printer to tell you to replace the cartridge.
 After all, when this liquid gold is costing you $65 an ounce, you'll want to use every last drop.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A Walgreens employee helps a customer order digital prints. The percentage of people who print photos at home has been falling. (Photo by Keith Bedford for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
At a Walgreens store in New York, a customer orders prints using a Fuji digital photo kiosk. (Photo by Keith Bedford for The New York Times)(pg. C6)Chart: ''Want Digital Prints? Try Online''According to the Photo Marketing Association International, fewer than half of all digital prints are now printed at home, down sharply from a year ago. One reason is because using an online printing service can be cheaper than printing at home and cheaper than the in-store services of mass merchants.ONLINE SERVICE: Snapfish.comOWNER: Hewlett-PackardPRICE FOR 4x6 PRINT: 10 cents (prepaid)
12 centsPAPER USED: HP PhotoSHIPPING: 3 to 5 days for 99 cents and upOTHER SERVICES: Mail order or pickup at WalgreensONLINE SERVICE: Shutterfly.comOWNER: Privately heldPRICE FOR 4x6 PRINT: 19 cents (prepaid)
 29 centsPAPER USED: Fujicolor Crystal ArchiveSHIPPING: 2 to 14 days for $1.79 and upOTHER SERVICES: Mail order onlyONLINE SERVICE: EasyShare.comOWNER: KodakPRICE FOR 4x6 PRINT: 15 centsPAPER USED: KodakSHIPPING: 2 to 14 days for $1.49 and upOTHER SERVICES: Mail order onlyONLINE SERVICE: Walmart.comOWNER: Wal-MartPRICE FOR 4x6 PRINT: 12 centsPAPER USED: Fujicolor Crystal ArchiveSHIPPING: 6 to 13 days for 82 cents and upOTHER SERVICES: Mail order or pickup at Wal-Mart(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE CUTTING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BEVERAGE PRICES (89%); PRINTER MFG (89%); RETAILERS (88%); PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT MFG (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (73%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (72%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (72%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); PHOTOFINISHING SERVICES (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SAM'S CLUB (69%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: PHOTO MARKETING ASSOCIATION INTERNATIONAL (82%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2005



148 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Hong Kong Now Plans to Allow Protests Near World Trade Talks

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Oct. 7 

 BODY:
Faced with objections to its initial plans, the Hong Kong government announced Friday that it would seal off a relatively small area around the site of the World Trade Organization ministerial conference when it is held here in December. 
 The government also offered to let protesters hold demonstrations at two sites within view of the convention center where 6,000 trade officials from 180 countries are scheduled to gather Dec. 13-18. The negotiations here will be aimed at bringing a new global trade agreement close to completion, with final talks to be held next year. 
 The decision to let protesters come closer to the convention center is potentially risky, given that protests at two of the group's ministerial conferences, in Seattle in 1999 and in Cancun, Mexico, in 2003, turned violent. The Hong Kong government had proposed earlier this year to ban demonstrators from a wide area around the convention center, which is located in the northern part of Wan Chai, a neighborhood housing government offices and expensive stores. 
 Chan Beng-seng, a member of the Hong Kong coordinating committee that is working with protest groups here and abroad, estimated that 10,000 people would demonstrate during the conference. 
 Under the original plan, protesters would have been forced to gather farther from the convention center, in southern Wan Chai, which is a warren of narrow alleys and is one of the oldest and most densely populated areas in Hong Kong.
 Southern Wan Chai is politically important during elections here, as it is fiercely contested by the opposition Democratic Party and the pro-Beijing Democratic Alliance for the Betterment and Progress of Hong Kong.
 Ada Wong, the chairwoman of the Wan Chai District Council, welcomed the government's decision to allow protesters to hold rallies closer to the convention center, saying that the protesters otherwise would have tried to march through southern Wan Chai to try to reach the conference. 
 ''Judging from the previous W.T.O.'s, the protesters are bound to move to other areas whether you want it or not,'' she said.
 Michael DeGolyer, a political analyst at Hong Kong Baptist University, said the government's willingness to allow protests in sight of the convention center showed that the police were convinced they could prevent violence. 
 ''There's no way they'd do this, no matter what the politics of the neighborhood, if they didn't have confidence in their ability to control the crowds,'' he said.
 Hong Kong has one of the highest ratios of police to residents of any large city in the world, a legacy of intermittent civil unrest against British colonial rule. Britain returned the territory to China in 1997.
 Janet Wong, the head of the Hong Kong government's coordination office for the conference, said protest organizers would be offered two possible sites. One is an open-air athletic center that has a new running track used by four dozen schools, and the protesters would have to avoid damaging the track, she said.
 The other is a long, narrow cargo dock facing the convention center. Asked whether a surging crowd might push large numbers of people off the dock and into fairly deep water, Mr. Ma said that the police were still studying the dock's feasibility as a protest site.
 Ms. Wong of the Wan Chai District Council said that the dock was not practical but that the running track could be protected with plywood.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); RIOTS (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); POPULATION DENSITY (72%) International Trade and World Market; Demonstrations and Riots

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%) World Trade Organization

PERSON: Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (68%) HONG KONG (99%); CHINA (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Hong Kong

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2005



149 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds Young Men Attending Fewer Films

BYLINE: By SHARON WAXMAN

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 7 

 BODY:
As Hollywood continues to worry about the decline at the box office, a new study suggests that the movie industry is being jilted by the one audience it has pursued most ardently for at least two decades: young males. 
 In a survey of 2,000 moviegoers by OTX, a Los Angeles-based online research company, men under 25 said they had seen 24 percent fewer movies this summer than they did in the summer of 2003, when the same study was conducted. The drop in moviegoing was much smaller for women and for other age groups. The study used a random, nationally representative sample of moviegoers who were queried online in August. There is a margin of error of 2 percentage points. 
Instead, young men ages 13 to 25 reported that they were busy surfing the Web, instant-messaging with friends and playing video games on consoles like PlayStation 2 and Xbox. 
 The study also found that people who were attending movies less often were doing so because of the cost.
 The study, which will be released next week, quantifies what many in Hollywood have theorized this year, as box office revenues have dropped 7 to 10 percent, namely that the increased competition for leisure time from the Internet and interactive gaming has eroded the movie audience. 
 But the study highlights that this erosion is occurring most deeply among those who were once most enthusiastic about going to the movies, and at whom Hollywood has long been aiming its wares: young males. 
 ''I was surprised by the speed with which this has occurred, since video games have been around for a while,'' said Vincent Bruzzese, the study's author and senior vice president of OTX media and entertainment insights. ''The digital environment has really captured the hearts and minds of everyone, and particularly younger males. They are staying home at an incredible rate right now.'' 
 The study echoed a finding about television viewing that was much disputed two years ago, when Nielsen Media Research charted a sharp decline in prime-time ratings among men ages 18 to 34. That finding, which delineated the growing fragmentation of the viewing audience, was also attributed to a rise in alternate activities, like video games. A year later, the viewership returned. 
 The finding leaves Hollywood rather in a bind. Having neglected the adult audience in favor of the youth market in recent decades, studios now find themselves losing ground in this important demographic. In the OTX study, young men also complained loudest among respondents about the movies themselves. Only 35 percent reported that there was an ''excellent selection'' of movie choices, down from 60 percent two years ago. Women and other age groups also reported a decline, though not as precipitous. 
 In the study's other major finding, a majority of respondents -- 68 percent -- said they had attended fewer movies because it had become too expensive. That reason was cited far more than other factors, like the decline in quality or a preference for waiting for the DVD. 
 ''There hasn't been a dramatic price increase in the last two years, so it seems to be a case of the straw breaking the camel's back,'' Mr. Bruzzese said of ticket costs. ''Price went up just enough, and the competition increased just enough, and the perceived release of the DVD window is shorter.''
 The finding suggested, he said, that the movie industry might want to consider solutions like establishing frequent-attendee reward programs, reducing ticket prices or promoting the merits of moviegoing. 
 While disputing that there was any serious decline in moviegoing, John Fithian, president of the National Association of Theater Owners, said the industry needed to emphasize that moviegoing remained inexpensive compared with other activities outside the home, rather than reduce its costs.
 ''Ticket prices in movie theaters have increased by a slower percentage than any form of out-of-home entertainment in the last 10 years -- take plays, music concerts, bowling,'' he said. ''It is a conundrum for us, needing to educate patrons more about the value of going to movies, and we're working on that.'' (Ticket prices have risen 2 to 3 percent a year in the past few years, about even with inflation, according to Exhibitor Relations, which tracks the box office.) 
 Mr. Fithian said he was ''befuddled'' by studies that show fewer people attending the movies. Looking at moviegoing patterns over three decades, and not just the past few years, he said, ''the basic assumption that people are going to the movies less often is not true.''
 The OTX study also found that going to the movies was the second-most popular weekend activity reported, after going out to dinner, and just ahead of watching a DVD or video at home. The study reported the average person spending about $55 on weekend entertainment.
 Jim Gianopulos, co-chairman of Fox Filmed Entertainment, said Hollywood was already catering to diverse audiences beyond young men and would need to continue to do so. 
 ''It makes no sense to continue aiming all your films at the same demographic quadrant,'' Mr. Gianopulos said. ''Eventually they become stale and lack originality. No one would program a slate to do that. It has always been our strategy'' to make movies for all kinds of audiences. 
 But Mr. Bruzzese said his study suggested that Hollywood might need to recultivate the practice of making movies for older audiences, who are less quick to adapt to the digital revolution. 
 ''For the time being, you have a product that is in many ways geared to a particular audience that is the most distracted by the new digital environment,'' he said. Other audiences ''aren't as distracted, but perhaps there isn't as much product for them.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Dude, Where's My Audience?''Based on a survey of 2,000 randomly selected moviegoers, males under 25 are seeing fewer movies.AVERAGE NUMBER OF MOVIES SEEN, SUMMERMales under 256.8 -- 20058.9 -- 2003PCT. CHANGE -- -24%Males 25 and older7.2 -- 20057.1 -- 2003PCT. CHANGE -- +1Females under 256.2 -- 20057.1 -- 2003PCT. CHANGE -- -21Females 25 and older5.5 -- 20056.4 -- 2003PCT. CHANGE -- -14Over all6.2 -- 20057.3 -- 2003PCT. CHANGE -- -14(Source by OTX)(pg. B15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); COMPUTER GAMES (89%); MEN (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (76%); WOMEN (75%); MOVIE REVIEWS (73%); INSTANT MESSAGING (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); YOUTH MARKET (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2005



150 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 300 words

PERSON: John E. Struggles

HEADLINE: John E. Struggles, 91, a Founder Of Executive Search Company 

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
John E. Struggles, a founder and longtime partner of Heidrick & Struggles, one of the first executive search firms in the world and currently one of the largest, died on Tuesday at his home in Winnetka, Ill. He was 91. 
 The firm, which is based in Chicago, announced the death.
With Gardner W. Heidrick, Mr. Struggles founded Heidrick & Struggles in 1953. An international concern, the firm today employs 1,300 people, with offices in 57 cities throughout North and South America, Europe and Asia. Recent clients have included the Walt Disney Company, Volvo, Office Depot, Nike, Coca-Cola, J.C. Penney, Starbucks, Honeywell and TIAA-CREF.
 Mr. Struggles remained with the firm until his retirement in 1986. Mr. Heidrick, who retired in 1982, died in 2002.
 Before they went into business together, Mr. Struggles had been an executive at Montgomery Ward & Company and Mr. Heidrick a management consultant with Booz Allen Hamilton. They began Heidrick & Struggles in a two-room office in downtown Chicago, with Mrs. Heidrick and Mrs. Struggles as the secretarial staff. The firm grew quickly, aided by the vigorous demand for corporate executives in the postwar economy.
 John Edward Struggles was born on Nov. 29, 1913, in Wilmette, Ill. From 1932 to 1934, he attended Miami University in Oxford, Ohio, before starting his business career with the Consolidated Biscuit Company in Chicago.
 Mr. Struggles went on to work for Pillsbury Mills, and in 1941 joined Montgomery Ward, eventually becoming vice president for personnel there. During World War II, he served with the Navy in the Pacific.
 Mr. Struggles is survived by his wife, the former Dorothy Goetz, whom he married in 1937; a son, Kirk, of Northfield, Ill.; three grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren. A daughter, Stephanie, died in 1981.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); WORLD WAR II (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (68%); GRANDCHILDREN (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HEIDRICK & STRUGGLES INTERNATIONAL INC (92%); MONTGOMERY WARD & CO INC (84%); WALT DISNEY CO (71%); BOOZ ALLEN HAMILTON INC (69%); COCA-COLA CO (57%); TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (57%)

TICKER: HSII (NASDAQ) (92%); DIS (NYSE) (71%); BAH (NYSE) (69%); KO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC7361 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES (92%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (84%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (71%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (71%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (71%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (71%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (76%); SOUTH AMERICA (76%); ASIA (71%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (70%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2005



151 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: REBUILDING; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Proposes Adding Casinos

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Oct. 7 

 BODY:
Mayor C. Ray Nagin on Friday proposed changing a state law to allow several casinos in the Canal Street area, saying that would attract tourists and provide needed revenue to the city.
 The casinos would be allowed in hotels with more than 500 rooms.
Officials estimate that they would pay $150million in taxes, evenly split between the city and state. 
 State law now allows one land-based casino in New Orleans, which is at the foot of Canal Street and operated by Harrah's Entertainment. It has been closed since Hurricane Katrina struck in August.
 Mr. Nagin acknowledged that his plan faced serious hurdles, requiring approval by lawmakers in Baton Rouge and by voters here, many of whom have previously voiced serious opposition to casinos. He said the city was facing serious financial problems and had to ''think out of the box'' to jump-start the economy.
 ''I'd love to have another solution,'' Mr. Nagin said. ''I'm not a big gaming person. I'm not a big gambler. But I don't know of another thing we can do at this time but focus on our ports and tourism.''
 The tax base has been obliterated, and Mr. Nagin emphasized that the city once made up a third of the Louisiana economy. He said that he met Gov. Kathleen Babineaux Blanco this month to discuss the plan and that she was ''not blown away with it'' but was ''open to discussion.''
 He unveiled his plan days after announcing the layoffs of 3,000 city employees, nearly half of the municipal workforce. On Friday, the mayor said that there was enough money to pay the remaining employees for two to three months, but that he could not be sure there would be enough money through the end of the year.
 Harrah's, which opened in 1999, has struggled as the one land-based casino in New Orleans. In 2001, it laid off 5 percent of its workforce months after receiving a $50million tax break from the state. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (91%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); GAMING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); MAYORS (89%); TOURISM (78%); TAX LAW (78%); APPROVALS (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); HURRICANE KATRINA (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CAESARS ENTERTAINMENT CORP (92%)

TICKER: CZR (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (92%); NAICS713210 CASINOS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) (92%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%)

PERSON: KATHLEEN BLANCO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2005



152 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1798 words

HEADLINE: With Mortgages, Instant Wealth For Middlemen 

BYLINE: By JEFF BAILEY

 BODY:
A vast industry of real estate middlemen has sprouted recently, riding the ups and downs of the mortgage market, and in many cases, accumulating great wealth in the process.
 Mortgage brokers, virtually nonexistent 25 years ago, now number 400,000 workers at more than 50,000 firms. They are scrappy entrepreneurs and sales representatives who match up borrowers and lenders on roughly 7 out of 10 mortgages. This year, they will collect some $33 billion from their share of an estimated $2.8 trillion in home mortgages.
Mortgage bankers, firms that lend their own money and then quickly resell the loans, can operate even more profitably. 
 Against the backdrop of rising home prices, the industry is a lesser known piece of the rising fortunes of real estate, money made in a remarkably simple business. For evidence of that, look at the year-old divorce proceedings of Ray Vinson Jr. and Deanna Daughhetee Vinson. 
 The case is playing out much like others in Family Court of St. Louis County, Mo. Mr. Vinson, 54, has sought custody of the couple's dog, Bogey, and some spending money from an account controlled by his 41-year-old wife. She, in turn, wants her husband of 12 years barred from their suburban home and from her office.
 But Vinson v. Vinson is not your typical divorce. Each side's lawyer has already been awarded $1 million in fees. Along with the cars, there are two private jets to divvy up. And the couple is fighting over a business that could be worth considerably more than $100 million.
 Mr. Vinson is a college dropout who declared personal bankruptcy in the early 1990's.
 Ms. Daughhetee is an accountant from a small town in southern Illinois, who no longer uses the name Vinson. 
 Matching borrowers and lenders they typically earn more than $1,000 on each transaction. 
 Now, however, there are signs of a shake-out. Home prices in some of the hottest markets are cooling. Rising interest rates could slow borrowing. That could mean fewer transactions, lower profits and fewer jobs in businesses related to real estate. 
 But brokers are here to stay.
 A computer, phone, fax machine, state lending license and a few months' rent is essentially all that is needed to become a broker. The Vinsons started with just $7,000 from Ray's grandmother, Flora Vinson.
 ''It's pretty easy to learn,'' said David Olson, a founder of Wholesale Access Mortgage Research and Consulting, based in Columbia, Md., and considered one of the nation's leading experts on mortgage brokers.
 The rise of brokers as the retail arm of the mortgage industry was spurred by the decline of savings and loans, which made and then held mortgages, and by the growth of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, quasi-government agencies that purchase vast numbers of mortgages from lenders.
 Smaller players are able to thrive because ''there are no economies of scale,'' Mr. Olson said. 
 Each borrower must be questioned, each loan file walked through a simple yet time-consuming series of procedures. Surviving and prospering as a company is not dependent on size but on hustle, attention to detail and marketing pizazz.
 Both mortgage brokers and bankers are licensed at the state level where there is little to moderate oversight. 
 Joseph Aldeguer, a college dropout and former commodities salesman, generates sales leads for his 200-employee suburban Chicago mortgage firm, the Mortgage Exchange, with a Saturday morning call-in radio show that he pays $5,000 a week to put on WLS, an AM station.
 Mr. Aldeguer, 38, could still pass for a commodities salesman, favoring tailored suits and wearing his dark hair long with blond highlights. He said that he was a success in commodities, but when he and his girlfriend at the time started the business that became the Mortgage Exchange, he put the $12,000 start-up costs on his credit card.
 The girlfriend, Jill Moore, 34, later became his wife and is now his former wife, 50-50 partner and the company's chief financial officer. She grew up on a farm outside Peoria and completed high school there. They met when she worked as a receptionist and fill-in aerobics instructor at a health club near the commodities exchange. She later managed a leather clothing shop, making as much as $35,000 a year, she said. 
 In mortgages, she thrives. ''I like paper; I like numbers,'' she said.
 Mr. Aldeguer had used radio advertisements in the United States and Canada to troll for commodities investors. Eventually tiring of commodities, a friend in the markets suggested mortgages, saying it was an easy way to make money. 
 Mr. Aldeguer opened an office. But calling real estate agents for referrals was degrading, he felt. So he turned to radio again, buying spots and then producing his hourlong show, featuring himself and some associates talking about real estate investing.
 On a recent Saturday, one caller had a lot of credit card debt. Mr. Aldeguer and his associates explained how to refinance the caller's home, switching out of a 30-year, fixed-rate loan to a so-called option ARM, or adjustable rate mortgage, which allows borrowers to pay interest only, or even less, for a certain number of years. 
 Such loans at times result in a rising loan balance, or negative amortization. 
 Consumer advocates have criticized these loans as risky because rising interest rates could lead to a steep payment increase.
 The caller could cut his monthly payment to $950 from $2,100, Mr. Aldeguer estimated.
 ''You either are a homeowner or an investor,'' he tells listeners, extolling the virtues of freeing up home equity to invest in more real estate or other assets. 
 Of course, the advice is self-serving in that it encourages people to take on additional debt. 
 Other callers end up talking to a loan officer like Gavin Beal, 35, who said he was laid off three times from corporate accounting jobs before joining the Mortgage Exchange in 2001. 
 ''I only made $40,000 in my last accounting job,'' he said. ''I was very depressed.'' Now he makes more than $100,000 a year, he said. 
 Like real estate agents, mortgage brokers are paid a percentage of the total transaction, about 1.5 percent on standard 30-year loans and up to 3 percent or more on less creditworthy loans that require more labor, according to Mr. Olson, the consultant. More often than not, the fee comes from the lender instead of the borrower. 
 It is an arrangement with a built-in conflict of interest, said Kathleen Keest, a consumer advocacy lawyer at the Center for Responsible Lending in Durham, N.C. 
 A broker who steers a borrower to a more expensive loan can snag a bigger fee for himself. ''That undermines the whole system,'' she said. 
 Efforts to increase disclosure of the fee arrangement, notably by the Department of Housing and Urban Development, have been beaten back by mortgage brokers, a department spokesman said. 
 ''There are unscrupulous people in every business,'' said Harry Dinham, a mortgage broker in Dallas and president-elect of the National Association of Mortgage Brokers. He said consumers need to shop for the best rate, adding that brokers ''must be doing something right'' to have grabbed a nearly 70 percent market share. 
 Mr. Beal, the Mortgage Exchange loan officer, said he tried to find customers the best rate. To save them cash, he proposes that they pay a slightly higher interest rate, which produces a big enough fee from the lender to cover both the borrower's closing costs and his firm's fee.
 On fee revenue of about $12.5 million last year, Mr. Aldeguer said, he and Ms. Moore had a profit of 5 percent to 10 percent. That helped finance his 20-room French Provincial suburban house, replete with 12-car garage.
 ''It is very tastefully done,'' said Meg Cleavenger, a realtor who tried to sell the place for $6.75 million to $8.25 million before Mr. Aldeguer decided to keep it. ''Joe's house is very big.'' 
 Mr. Olson believes that online lending and Internet-based processing of paperwork now handled physically between banks, governments, title insurers, lawyers and others is the one development that could spur consolidation of the fragmented mortgage broker business. That appears to be far off.
 What seems more imminent is a slowdown in the real estate boom. Even that would not be all bad for the company owned by Ray Vinson and Deanna Daughhetee, American Equity Mortgage. It specializes in debt consolidation loans and could benefit from bad economic times. 
 To attract borrowers, the company spends as much as $25 million a year on radio spots featuring Mr. Vinson, who is from West Virginia, unforgettably drawling out the phone number, which ends in ''ninety-nine, ninety-nine.''
 With more than 40 offices, American Equity produced more than $28 million in income for the couple each of the last two years, according to a court filing in the divorce.
 Mr. Vinson said he initially put the company's stock in his wife's name because he had recently filed for bankruptcy, which could complicate getting a lending license. As the years went on, he said, he asked to have the stock put in his name. He also had less to do with running the business, he said.
 ''The more responsibility I gave Deanna, the more she fell in love with power, and out of love with me.''
 ''I'd tell her, 'I love you, but Deanna I just want the company back in my name.' It was a battle every time it came up. And the more we argued, the more I drank.''
 Ms. Daughhetee filed for divorce a year ago. He sought reconciliation, but said it did not work. 
 Mr. Vinson's lawyer calls the divorce a ''hostile takeover'' of the company, half of which, the lawyer asserted, rightfully belongs to Mr. Vinson. Angry at how Ms. Daughhetee handled marketing, Mr. Vinson cut off his radio advertisements in January. Ms. Daughhetee started a different advertisement campaign.
 Meanwhile, in the divorce, each was allowed $3.5 million in spending money. Mr. Vinson, accompanied by Bogey the dog, who is now in his care, walked across the lobby of the Four Seasons Hotel in Las Vegas one recent day, dressed in a Brioni suit. He was in town to look at investments, he said. 
 Now, however, he is worried. The ad campaign switch ''caused call volume from potential customers to decrease precipitously,'' Mr. Vinson asserted in a June court filing. Separately from the divorce, Mr. Vinson last week sued his wife in Missouri state court, contending breach of fiduciary duty and seeking a receiver to run American Equity.
 She would not comment. 
 Looking out over Las Vegas, with Bogey snoring softly on the couch, Mr. Vinson said, ''The competition is eating our lunch.''
 Articles in this occasional series will profile a variety of businesspeople who have grown wealthy from the real estate boom. Previous articles are online at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jill Moore, the chief financial officer, and Joseph Aldeguer, the president, have used an hourlong radio show to advertise the Mortgage Exchange, based in Downers Grove, Ill. (Photo by Peter Thompson for The New York Times)(pg. C13)Graph: ''More Middlemen''An increasing number of home mortgages are originating from mortgage brokers.Share of mortgages originating from mortgage brokersGraph tracks share of mortgages originating from mortgage brokers since 1988.(Source by Wholesale Access Mortgage Research and Consulting)(pg. C13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (93%); REAL ESTATE (91%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); FAMILY LAW (90%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (76%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (73%); HOME PRICES (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); FAMILY COURTS (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%) Housing; Mortgages; Entrepreneurship; Real Estate; Brokers and Brokerage Firms; Housing

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%); WHOLESALE ACCESS (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (51%)

PERSON: Jeff Bailey

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2005



153 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; The FedEx Economy; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: Have Recessions Absolutely, Positively Become Less Painful?

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

DATELINE: MEMPHIS 

 BODY:
The nearly empty Airbus 310 was coasting through the Alabama night sky when a message flashed in the cockpit. ''DIVERT,'' it said, before using code to order the plane to land in Atlanta.
 The pilot banked the jet to the east and a half-hour later it was on the ground. There, its cargo door opened up to a group of waiting FedEx employees who began filling it with 17,000 pounds of cargo.
It had been a busy day for Georgia businesses, and FedEx's regular nightly flights from Atlanta to the company's Memphis hub were overbooked with packages. So the local crew made a call to a sprawling, low-slung room here at headquarters, where people hunch over computer screens showing weather maps and flight plans, and asked for help from the five empty FedEx jets that roam over the United States every night. 
 The recent birth of that small fleet, at a multimillion-dollar price tag, explains a lot about how the nation's economy has become so much more resilient. Think of it as the FedEx economy, a system that constantly recalibrates itself to cope with surprises.
 The United States has endured an almost biblical series of calamities in recent years -- wars, hurricanes, financial scandals, soaring oil prices and rising interest rates -- but the economy keeps chugging along at an annual growth rate of roughly 3 percent. 
 It has been able to do so with the help of technology that allows businesses to react ever more quickly to changes. But with little notice, those reactions have also created a new feature of the business cycle: the micro-recession. 
 When one of them strikes, activity slows for a few weeks, sometimes in just certain sectors or regions, as companies adjust to a dip in demand. It has happened much more often in the last few years than in earlier expansions, but growth has picked up each time, thanks in part to the adjustments that businesses have made. 
 No company embodies this change, for better and worse, quite like FedEx. When Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, sees Frederick W. Smith, FedEx's chief executive, during halftime of Washington Redskins games, Mr. Greenspan uses the company's vast reach to check in on the economy.
 ''He always asks, 'We still O.K.?''' said Mr. Smith, a part-owner of the team whose stadium suite abuts the one Mr. Greenspan uses. 
 More formally, Federal Reserve staff members rely on FedEx and the nearly six million packages it delivers every day for real-time data that helps set interest rate policy. 
 The company's around-the-world flights -- fuller coming from Asia than going to it -- are the shipping lanes of the global economy, bringing goods from Chinese factories to American shelves in just days. FedEx technology helps Procter & Gamble managers send more Crest to Wal-Mart whenever somebody buys a tube, and the managers can then watch the replacement move through the supply chain from their computer screens. 
 All this -- combined with financial innovations that allow companies to hedge their bets and, some say, the deregulation of pivotal transportation industries -- has helped mute the economy's swings. The business cycle has certainly not been eliminated, as some dreamers suggested during the 1990's boom, but recessions really do seem to happen less often. 
 There have been only two recessions in the last two decades. From the late 1960's through the early 80's, the economy endured four of them, including two of the deepest in decades, which left millions of people out of work. 
 ''The more flexible an economy, the greater its ability to self-correct after inevitable, often unanticipated disturbances,'' Mr. Greenspan argued in a recent speech. ''The impressive performance of the U.S. economy over the past couple of decades, despite shocks that in the past would have surely produced marked economic contraction, offers the clearest evidence of the benefits of increased market flexibility.''
 Of course, new technologies and global shipping lanes are also big reasons that job growth has been so disappointing during this expansion and that the gains from recent economic growth have gone mainly to highly skilled white-collar workers. 
 In Woodbridge, N.J., for example, a large FedEx shipping center can sometimes seem void of human beings. And revenue at the express-shipping division has grown almost 30 percent since 2002, while the full-time work force has declined slightly. The number of part-time workers has grown. 
 Across the economy, quick reactions, like asking workers to put in more hours one week and fewer the next, have helped lead to the business cycle's new hiccups. Mr. Smith calls them ''mini-recessions.'' Mr. Greenspan has used the term ''soft patch'' in testimony to Congress. 
 But the dynamic is the same. Year to year, the economy is less volatile, but in some ways it has become more volatile month to month. 
 Since the current expansion began in late 2001, industrial production has fallen in 14 months, much more frequently than it did during the early years of other recent expansions. The same is true of a broad monthly measure of the economy known as the Conference Board's coincident indicator.
 Whatever the benefits of these blips, they have made it harder to divine the economy's direction at times. In the spring months of 2002, 2003 and 2004, ''we had businesspeople wringing their hands about downturns in the economy,'' noted R. Glenn Hubbard, a former economic adviser to President Bush and now the dean of Columbia Business School. ''It didn't happen.'' Still, the slowdowns, and the reactions to them, were never so severe as to cause a true downturn.
 At FedEx, the first responders to the business cycle are a group of managers who gather for a worldwide conference call every morning at 8:30 Memphis time. Sitting at a faux-wooden conference table in a spare room, beneath a screen that shows every FedEx plane in the air, they review the last 24 hours of activity.
 John Dunavant, a burly Memphis native with spiked, graying hair, runs the call as one part pep talk, one part Socratic examination. The local managers on the call are expected to respond to delayed flights and misdirected packages in ways that make a repeat unlikely.
 On a recent Wednesday, the empty plane that departs each night from Las Vegas had to travel to San Diego -- rather than making its usual flight to Memphis -- to fill in for a broken plane. But ground workers in Las Vegas had become so used to its completing its typical route that they had loaded some packages marked for the Memphis hub onto the plane. The packages ended up in Oakland instead.
 ''That's the risk with that flying spare,'' Mr. Dunavant, using company lingo for the empty planes, said during the call. ''That's one of the things they get lulled to sleep on.'' 
 Besides Las Vegas, the flying spares leave from Duluth, Minn.; Laredo, Tex.; Fort Myers, Fla.; and Portland, Me. All take circuitous paths to Memphis, passing near major cities like Dallas, Denver and St. Louis. 
 On a typical night, one of the five makes an unexpected stop to collect an overflow of packages, one lands to bail out a plane needing a repair, and three arrive in Memphis as empty as they were when they took off.
 Until a year ago, FedEx used just one flying spare, leaving from Las Vegas, but executives decided they needed an even larger reserve army to fight uncertainty. Every night, the company also keeps about 10 percent of planes half empty, allowing them to make unplanned stops and pick up more cargo.
 Changes like this, not just at FedEx but at its rival United Parcel Service and many other companies, have helped foster the recent economic stability. The amount of inventory that companies keep in their warehouses, in case demand suddenly surges or some boxes become stuck in Oakland, has steadily fallen. 
 ''In the classic old business cycle, there would be a diminution in sales; it would take a little while for this information to reach corporate headquarters,'' Alan S. Blinder, an economist at Princeton and a former vice chairman of the Fed, said in an interview. ''And there would be an inventory pileup. And then -- bam -- businesses would react, sometimes violently, by cutting production.''
 For now, no micro-recession appears to be on the horizon. Companies are busy enough moving boxes around the world that FedEx has recently increased its prices. Its stock has risen, too, after having fallen much of the year as investors worried about a price war between FedEx and UPS. 
 But there is no point in getting too comfortable with the economy's current path. In all likelihood, another hiccup will come soon.


GRAPHIC: Photo: John Dunavant conducts a daily call with managers at FedEx to review shipping activity. (Photo by Kate Medley for The New York Times)(pg. C13)Drawing (Drawing by Illustration by The New York Times)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Brief Dips''The economy has suffered through many more brief dips -- or micro-recessions -- in the last few years than in the early years of the 1990's expansion.Graph shows the Industrial production Index (1997=100) and the months of flat or negative growth since 2002.(Source by Federal Reserve Board)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Ups and Downs''By some measures, the current expansion has been considerably more volatile than the early years of other recent expansions.Economic growth*During the first 44 months of an expansionTROUGH: Nov. '01MONTHS OF FLAT OR NEGATIVE GROWTH: 15TROUGH: Mar. '91MONTHS OF FLAT OR NEGATIVE GROWTH: 8TROUGH: Nov. '82MONTHS OF FLAT OR NEGATIVE GROWTH: 8TROUGH: Mar. '75MONTHS OF FLAT OR NEGATIVE GROWTH: 4*measured by the Conference Board's coincident index(Sources by Global Insight
 Conference Board)(pg. C13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (65%); SCANDALS (51%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WASHINGTON FOOTBALL INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (52%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (52%)

PERSON: FREDERICK W SMITH (79%); ALAN GREENSPAN (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (91%) GEORGIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2005



154 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 248 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Yankees Fall Again; Red Sox Fall Out
The Los Angeles Angels drubbed the Yankees, 11-7, to take a two-games-to-one lead in their best-of-five playoff series. The Chicago White Sox, with stellar relief pitching by Orlando Hernandez, left, completed a playoff sweep of the defending champion Boston Red Sox in a 5-3 victory at Fenway Park. SPORTSSATURDAY, PAGE D1

Ex-Presidents Raise Millions
The Bush-Clinton Katrina Fund has collected $108 million so far. But the two ex-presidents are not clear on where the money will go. PAGE A13

Zimbabwe Arrests Peddlers
Against a backdrop of mounting economic collapse, the police in Zimbabwe say they have arrested nearly 15,000 street merchants. PAGE A3

Justice Candidate Withdraws
President Bush's pick for the second-ranking position at the Justice Department abruptly withdrew his nomination. PAGE A12

35,000 Jobs Lost Last Month
Although 35,000 jobs were lost in September, the modest drop seemed to underscore the economy's strength. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

THIS WEEKEND

T: Design
The New York Times Style Magazine focuses on how to make the best use of space at home, from a cleverly organized New York studio apartment to a living room imagined by three different designers.

Lament for a Lost City
The great American cities of the early 20th century were built by architects, yes, but also by engineers. Their feats in New Orleans and elsewhere laid the foundation for urban visions that have been abandoned, Nicolai Ouroussoff writes. ARTS & LEISURE

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (71%); ENGINEERING (71%); CITY LIFE (70%); CITIES (70%); POLICE FORCES (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); LAYOFFS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); BOSTON RED SOX (91%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ZIMBABWE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2005



155 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10

ElBaradei and His Agency Win Nobel Peace Prize
The Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to the International Atomic Energy Agency and its chief, Mohamed ElBaradei, who the Bush administration tried but failed to remove from his job just months ago. The award was an endorsement of a man and an agency who have long sparred with President Bush and his administration over how to confront Iraq and Iran. A1

Zimbabwe Arrests Vendors
The police in Zimbabwe, against a backdrop of mounting economic collapse, say they have arrested nearly 15,000 street merchants since late September in a reprise of a campaign in May that cleared destitute squatters and vendors from urban areas. A3

New Tactics in Barrier Dispute
Israeli soldiers guarding the Israeli separation barrier with the West Bank have developed new tactics to protect the barrier from protesters in an attempt to avoid any scenes that could be construed as brutal behavior. A10

Bombs Kill 6 Marines in Iraq
Six American marines were killed in two roadside bomb attacks in western Iraq as the American command pressed a two-pronged offensive against insurgent strongholds along the Euphrates River, American officials said. A8

Iraq's Sunnis, who have dominated the ruling class from the Ottoman era through the reign of Saddam Hussein, now say they are being forced to accept a constitution that casts them as villains and leaves them out of the governing process. A8

Muslim Feud Kills 8 in Pakistan
At least 8 people were killed and 20 wounded in an attack on a minority Muslim sect in Pakistan whose members are considered heretics by orthodox Muslims, raising fresh concerns about the protection of members of minorities in the majority Sunni Muslim state. A8

Constitutional Fight in Colombia
Alvaro Uribe, the president of Colombia, is fiercely lobbying to ensure that the country's highest court permits him to run for re-election next year. A6

OBITUARIES C16

John van Hengel
A church employee who in 1967 set up the nation's first food bank to distribute unmarketable food to the hungry, he was 83. C16

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-7

Red Sox Done, Yankees Down
The magic faded for the Red Sox as the Chicago White Sox defeated Boston, 5-3, to sweep their American League division series in three games and advance to the A.L. Championship Series. In the other A.L. division series, the Los Angeles Angels defeated the Yankees, 11-7, to take a two games to one lead in the best-of-five series. D1

NATIONAL A11-16

Draft Plan on Flu Outbreak Says U.S. is Unprepared
A plan developed by the Bush administration to deal with any possible outbreak of pandemic flu has concluded that the United States is woefully unprepared for what could become the worst disaster in the nation's history. A1

Bush Nominee Withdraws
President Bush's pick for the second-ranking position at the Justice Department abruptly withdrew his nomination after facing weeks of questions over his ties to the lobbyist Jack Abramoff and his role in formulating interrogation policies. A12

Explicit Video Games Restricted
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger signed legislation to outlaw the sale to teenagers of electronic games featuring reckless mayhem and explicit sexuality. A11

Seeking Revised Casino Rules
Mayor C. Ray Nagin of New Orleans proposed changing a Louisiana law to allow several casinos in the Canal Street area, saying they would provide needed revenue to his city. A13

The first independent experts to examine the New Orleans levees said the walls on two critical canals gave way as the pressure from the floodwaters ripped through the soil beneath them. A13

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Bloomberg Spending Big In Re-election Bid
Mayor Bloomberg has already spent nearly $50 million of his own money on his re-election campaign, according to campaign records, far ahead of the phenomenal pace of his spending in the 2001 election and putting him on track to break all records for expenditures for any office except the presidency. A1

Inquiry Into Subway Threat
 United States authorities swept up a third person in Iraq as American intelligence and law enforcement officials worked to determine the true nature of what New York officials called the first specific terrorist threat to the city's subway system, several law enforcement and government officials said. A1

Beliefs B6

FASHION B7-8

ARTS B9-20

Fewer Movies for Young Males
A new study suggests that the movie industry is being jilted by the one audience it has pursued most ardently: young males. B9

BUSINESS DAY C1-13

Mortgage Middlemen
A cooling of the real estate market could mean a change in fortune for mortgage brokers, whose field has grown from essentially nothing 25 years ago to a vast industry employing some 400,000 workers. A1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Binding the hands of torturers; bird flu and the 1918 pandemic; waltz of the Nicaraguan thugs; new thoughts on old-boy deals.

Columns: Maureen Dowd, John Tierney.

Bridge B16
Crossword B16
TV Listings B20
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AWARDS & PRIZES (95%); NOBEL PRIZES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); BASEBALL (84%); LOBBYING (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); RELIGION (69%); CHURCH & STATE (68%); HISTORY (65%); EPIDEMICS (62%); INFLUENZA (62%); FOOD CHARITIES (61%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (61%); POLICE FORCES (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (84%)

PERSON: MOHAMED ELBARADEI (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (68%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%); ALVARO URIBE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (66%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); ZIMBABWE (93%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); COLOMBIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2005



156 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 170 words

HEADLINE: Leadership at Treasury

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''The Next Alan Greenspan'' (editorial, Oct. 6) did not grant my colleague Treasury Secretary John W. Snow sufficient respect for his impressive record of delivering strong economic leadership during a challenging period. 
Secretary Snow's doctorate in economics gives him a broad understanding of markets, and his experience leading a global transportation company gives him practical insights into the challenges facing American workers and businesses competing in a global economy. 
 Under President Bush's leadership and on John Snow's watch, the United States has been the world's fastest-growing advanced economy and has created more than 4.2 million jobs since May 2003. Secretary Snow has also successfully managed China's introduction of greater currency flexibility.
 In training, temperament and experience, Mr. Snow is well positioned to lead the Treasury Department, and that preparation is generating results for the American people.

Carlos M. Gutierrez
Secretary of Commerce
Washington, Oct. 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (73%); CARLOS GUTIERREZ (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2005



157 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: When Smart Choices Are, Alas, Costly Ones

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
SINCE the spring of 2004, it has seemed eminently sensible for bond investors to concentrate on mutual funds containing bonds with short average maturities. That is because the Federal Reserve has been raising interest rates, and investors have been aiming to prevent the erosion of their principal. 
 The Fed has raised its short-term benchmark rate in 11 quarter-point increments, to 3.75 percent. But in this case, being ''right'' has been costly. Elsewhere in the bond market, you could have made returns above the paltry, inflation-lagging 1 or 2 percent you were likely to have earned in short-term funds in the latest quarter and the year to date. 
Instead of rising in tandem with short-term rates, long rates actually fell after the Fed started raising rates. That pushed up prices and confounded almost everybody from ordinary investors to Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, who described the situation as a ''conundrum.'' Investors in funds holding bonds of intermediate and longer maturities did better; those who bought the conventional wisdom missed out.
 ''It's one of the rare times that we've seen interest rates rise and short-term funds actually underperform longer-term funds,'' said Eric Jacobson, a senior analyst at Morningstar who specializes in bonds.
 It's also a prime example of how even canny investors, who know enough to avoid predicting stock prices, fool themselves into thinking that they can profitably foretell the future of bonds. Even if their view eventually proves correct, the payoff may take far longer than expected.
 ''Despite the evidence that even experts such as traders in the futures markets and professional economists have a poor record of predicting interest rates, many investors attempt to time the bond market by moving money in and out of bonds according to their expectations of short-term interest rate changes,'' an analysis by Fidelity Investments concluded earlier this year. 
 Historically, investors in bond funds have bought when returns were about to shrink and sold when returns were about to grow, said the Fidelity analysts, George A. Fischer and Shawn M. Verbout.
 Wayne Wicker, chief investment officer at Vantagepoint Funds in Washington, said he was ''amazed'' at how the bond market's yield curve -- the array of rates for maturities from months to decades, normally rising with longevity -- has essentially flattened over the last year.
 Low, tightly bunched returns have made it hard for bond managers to stand out from their peers, though some have done so by venturing into such things as bank loans, mortgages, asset-backed securities and high-yield, or junk, bonds, including those issued by newly downgraded General Motors and Ford. Some managers of ultrashort funds, in which expenses typically loom especially large relative to returns, have been notably inclined to reach for yield and thereby increase their exposure to credit risks. 
 One manager who has raised eyebrows for his apparent caution is Robert L. Rodriguez, chief executive of First Pacific Advisors, sponsor of the $1.9 billion FPA New Income fund. His portfolio has a duration -- a maturity-related gauge of price sensitivity to changes in interest rates -- of just over six months and has been one-third invested in cash or equivalents for the last 18 months. 
 Because of what Mr. Rodriguez considers irresponsible federal budget policy, there is simply too much inflation and other risk, with scant compensation, in lending money for an extended period.
 ''We believe that long-term bonds with yields here in the 4 percent, 3 percent region provide little, if any, value,'' he said. ''The whole credit spectrum is mispriced.''
 If anyone should call such defensiveness the mark of a market-timing gunslinger, Mr. Rodriguez would respond that he is just the opposite. ''We will deploy capital when we are getting compensated for the risk,'' he said. ''In order to be correct longer term as an investment manager, you must be willing to accept periods of substandard performance.''
 FPA New Income was up 0.9 percent in the third quarter and 1.3 percent in the 12 months through September.
 Jim Sarni, senior portfolio manager at Payden & Rygel Investment Management, takes a far more sanguine view of current prospects.
 ''What's going on is a great battle over inflation,'' he said, ''with the Fed thinking that it's going to go up and be an issue and the market saying no, it isn't.''
 Mr. Sarni, whose company's Payden Short Bond and Payden Core Bond funds have eked out skimpy gains of less than 1 percent over the last 12 months, contends that while ''headline'' inflation is likely to pick up somewhat, it will mainly reflect temporary, hurricane-related oil and building-material price increases, with the core inflation rate remaining ''fairly tame.''
 But a likely uptick in interest rates in a spooked market will be a chance to buy, he said. ''I think what people should do is use the opportunities that will probably present themselves in the next month or two to begin to move out into that intermediate, two- to five-year part of the yield curve,'' he said. 
 ''The one thing we know,'' he added, ''is that when the Fed signals -- whatever way they signal, probably this winter -- that they are near the end of their tightening cycle, short rates are going to drop very dramatically and you'll see some attractive returns.''
 ACCORDING to the report from the Fidelity analysts, the wise course for those who think they can fathom the bond market's direction is to make ''only small, incremental changes'' that keep one's portfolio within 5 to 10 percent of a core allocation to fixed-income securities.
 ''It is unwise to time the bond market,'' the report said. ''In practice, it is every bit as difficult and unrewarding as timing the stock market.''
 Mr. Jacobson of Morningstar emphatically agreed with the assessment in the Fidelity analysis that timing the bond market was unfeasible. ''It's still amazing that after all we've been through during the last 15 years in the bond market that there are still people who say it's obvious that X is going to happen or Y is going to happen,'' he said. ''Yet again they have been proven wrong or -- just as bad -- proved that it's impossible to know the timing.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Bond 'Conundrum'''Many investors have been expecting long-term interest rates to rise, given the Federal Reserve's 11 increases in short-term rates since June 2004. But long-term interest rates have stayed low.Graph tracks yield on 10-year Treasuries since 2000.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FUTURES (78%); YIELD CURVE (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (60%); EROSION (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FMR CORP (74%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (74%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (74%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (74%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (74%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



158 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Why Is Everyone Losing Sleep Over Oil and Gas Stocks? 

BYLINE: By Ben Stein. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
ONE of the useful things I have the chance to do when traveling long distances on airplanes is to read the business sections of newspapers and magazines in greater detail than may be merited. Even I, the world champion of sleep, cannot sleep forever (although someday I will). So I have to read in my area, which is business and investment news. Lately, a trend in personal finance articles seems to be about a supposed bubble in the prices of energy stocks.
 The theory goes like this: energy stocks are at the high end of their 52-week cycle. Some are at their highest points ever. Oil production and gas production have largely been shut down by recent storms, resulting in high prices of gasoline, heating oil and natural gas. Once production is restored, energy commodity prices will collapse and energy company earnings will collapse, too.
Not only that, but Americans will all soon drive hybrid cars, so no one will want much gasoline any more. Hence -- so the rationale for the energy bubble runs -- it's time to bail out of energy. The analogy that is often given is the boom and bust of the Internet stocks, which, of course, soared in the late 1990's, then collapsed in 2000 and 2001. 
 With the greatest respect for my fellow seers, there are a few things desperately wrong with the analogy -- and with this whole line of reasoning.
 First and foremost, Internet stocks largely had no or negligible earnings. They were valued on hype and rumor. They were not traditional securities with earnings and dividends. They had no value except their trading value. When they did have profits, they often sold at 100 or more times those earnings. 
 On the contrary, oil and gas stocks have had spectacular earnings. Take a look at those of Exxon Mobil, BP or Valero. Those stocks' price-to-earnings ratios are far below, not above, the ratios for the S.&P. 500-stock index as a whole. Take a look at the royalty trusts like those for Prudhoe Bay on the North Slope of Alaska and the Permian Basin in west Texas. The P/E ratios for these trusts -- vehicles that energy companies created to transfer interests in their properties directly to their stockholders, who became unit holders in the trusts -- are also far lower than even the P/E ratio of the blue-chip Dow Jones industrial average. 
 And it's important to remember that these ratios are for the last quarter, before the spectacular hurricane-related price increases for the products they sell. It's entirely possible that their earnings will rise, not fall, at least in the short run, as the storm-related prices take some space on their books. (Of course, they will also have costs to repair their facilities, but those costs can be spread out over years.)
 Generally speaking, there is a bubble in a security or an asset if its price rises faster than its earnings. Hence the bubble in Internet stocks, which often had no earnings, and perhaps now in residential property, as prices rise faster than imputed rent. But if a security rises quickly in price because its earnings and prospective earnings also rise quickly -- where's the bubble?
 But some people say energy prices are in a bubble themselves. Maybe yes and maybe no. Certainly, when oil and gas and electricity production resumes along the Gulf Coast, one would expect energy prices to fall. I am positive that they will fall, and indeed they have already started to fall. But let's remember that these are world prices. What has been taken off line in Louisiana and Texas is a lot of United States production but only a small fraction of world production. What has moved the price so much this year is the global imbalance of supply and demand.
 Yes, prices reflect storm damage and storm-related scarcity to some extent. No doubt about that. But the prices, which were already rising before the storms, have now retreated to pre-Katrina levels (at least for oil, if not natural gas) and may have already passed through the storm bubble and come out on the other side.
 There is a real problem in energy commodities as far as consumers are concerned. We are using energy a lot faster than we find it. As I have written before, price is how we allocate energy products when demand is rising faster than supply, or vice versa. We are seeing the world's people start to suck the oil from the earth at a particularly breathtaking rate.
 (I recall a glorious exchange from a Hemingway novel. ''How did you go bankrupt?'' a man asks his friend. ''Two ways,'' the friend replies. ''Gradually and then suddenly.'')
 Americans are moving at a measured pace from gasoline-powered cars and trucks to hybrids. But the percentage of hybrids is still tiny -- and they get hydrogen and electricity from plants fired by coal, oil and natural gas, by the way, which is like cutting off a blanket at one end and sewing it on at the other to make it longer.
 When people in China and India take to the roads by the hundreds of millions, it will be good night, nurse. There will be conservation and shifting as prices rise, but the ratio of demand to supply is still rising faster than it was, and it will be decades before major shifts to solar and nuclear energy take effect in a meaningful way. (''Thank you, Sierra Club,'' the oil companies say with a hearty bow.) 
 In the meantime, the integrated major oil companies, refiners and royalty trusts own a great deal of a commodity that is rapidly disappearing and is rapidly rising in price. As oil companies drain their reserves faster than they find new ones, their P/E ratios may fall to levels usually associated with royalty trusts, but they will still own a supervaluable asset. 
 IT used to be that oil prices could be punctured on a moment's notice. Just ask Midland, Tex., which suffered greatly in the oil bust of the 1980's after Saudi Arabia raised its output a few notches. Oil prices are already correcting in the short run. But there is a real question now as to whether the Saudis can raise output in a meaningful way, and no one else seems to have a lot of spare capacity. Add to that the fact that a lot of the world's oil producers don't like us much (a subject for a future column). That is very good news for Midland.
 Does this mean that energy stock prices will not correct in the short run? Without question they will correct. Stocks usually correct in the short run after an immense climb. 
 But are we in a bubble of energy stocks as bubbles are usually defined? No, and the long-term future for entities that own a great deal of a commodity that they bought cheaply -- many of the majors have billions of barrels that cost them well under $10 a barrel -- and that may stay in desperately short supply looks pretty good to me.
 Would I bet the ranch on it? No, but then I don't own a ranch. I may bet a cow, although I don't own a cow, either.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Philip Anderson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); ROYALTIES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); HEATING OIL (75%); HEATING OIL PRICES (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); GASOLINE PRICES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); HURRICANES (68%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (67%); INTERNET & WWW (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



159 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: The Quarter at the End of the Rainbow

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM

 BODY:
THE third quarter will be remembered for two of the costliest hurricanes ever to strike the United States -- and the high energy prices left in their wake. But despite the disruptions and devastation caused by Katrina and Rita, the storms weren't strong enough to erase the equity market's surprisingly strong gains.
 In the three months ended Sept. 30, the average general domestic stock fund returned 4.4 percent -- a good performance, considering that the historical average annual return for stocks is just over 10 percent.
Among all domestic equity funds, which include sector funds, the third-quarter returns were even better: 4.9 percent, on average, versus a gain of 2.8 percent in the second quarter and a loss of 2.3 percent in the first quarter, according to Morningstar Inc.
 ''It actually turned out to be quite a good quarter,'' said Tom Roseen, senior research analyst at the fund tracker Lipper Inc. ''It wasn't gangbusters, like we saw at the end of 2004, but on an annualized basis, you're looking at some pretty good results.'' 
 Over the 12 months through September, the average domestic stock fund rose by 16.5 percent.
 That was decidedly better than the total returns of 12.3 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500 index of blue-chip stocks and the 7.2 percent for the Dow Jones industrial average over the same period.
 For fund managers who outperformed the market, big stakes in energy and utility stocks certainly helped, as ''those were the areas in the market where the best returns were,'' said Wendell Perkins, chief investment officer at the JohnsonFamily Funds, based in Racine, Wis.
 Among the 10 top-performing funds in the third quarter, energy holdings represented around a quarter of their total assets. That is significantly higher than energy's weighting of 10.5 percent in the S.&P. 500.
 Natural-resources sector funds, which invest most of their assets in energy-related shares, were the best performers in the quarter among domestic fund categories. The average natural-resources fund returned 23.2 percent over the last three months.
 Only one other fund category -- Latin American stock funds -- did better, returning 29.7 percent, on average. And over the 12 months through September, Latin American stock funds were up nearly 79 percent. But Scott Merritt, equity specialist at J.P. Morgan Funds, said that this, too, was an energy-related story. ''Obviously, with light sweet crude oil up around 50 percent year to date, that's going to help Brazil and Mexico and a lot of other folks that export anything to do with energy.''
 Crude oil prices jumped from the upper $50's in early July to more than $70 a barrel in Katrina's immediate aftermath last month. Still, as big as energy was in the quarter, other segments of the equity market also flourished. 
 RUSSEL KINNEL, director of fund research at Morningstar, said the rally in the third quarter was much broader than some people might have assumed. For example, as inflationary fears rose along with commodity prices, precious-metals funds, on average, returned nearly 21 percent.
 Technology sector funds also did well, quietly generating a return of 7.5 percent, on average. But in the third quarter, that was nothing special. In fact, tech sector funds were generally in line with several other sector fund categories, including utilities, up 8.4 percent; health care, up 7.8 percent; and telecommunications, up 7.1 percent. 
 Every category of equity fund tracked by Morningstar was up in the third quarter, with one exception: bear market funds, which are designed to zig when the major stock indexes zag. 
 Even among general equity funds, ''it didn't really matter where in the style box you were,'' Mr. Kinnel said. In other words, whether you were invested in a small-cap growth-oriented stock fund or a large-cap value fund, you probably did well. Across the style categories, general equity funds produced average returns of 3.6 percent to 6.6 percent in the quarter. 
 Generally, it also didn't matter what country you were investing in -- you still made money. In fact, the growing numbers of fund investors who looked outside the United States were often rewarded handsomely for their journeys. Stock funds that invested in European, Asian, Japanese and Latin American companies all produced double-digit gains, on average, for the quarter, as international portfolios outpaced the performance of domestic funds.
 Donald L. Cassidy, a senior research analyst with Lipper, said that in July, 41 cents of every dollar that flowed into stock funds went into internationally oriented funds. In August, foreign funds accounted for all net equity fund inflows, as domestic stock funds experienced net redemptions.
 The fact that all of these types of stock funds were able to climb was even more impressive given the time period. Third quarters have historically been the worst periods for the equity markets, with an average loss of 0.6 percent for the S.&P. going back to 1970. (And September has been the worst individual month.) 
 But now that the markets have survived the treacherous third quarter, a question remains: What if an even more perfect storm awaits investors in the fourth?
 True, fourth quarters have historically been the best for stock market performance. Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at S.&P., recently studied its 500-stock index going back to 1945 and found that the average fourth-quarter return was 4.3 percent. 
 In the last couple of fourth quarters, domestic stock funds fared much better than that. They returned 10.5 percent, on average, in the final quarter last year and 12.0 percent in the fourth quarter of 2003.
 But many economists are concerned about how consumers may cope with a potential combination of rising inflation, rising interest rates, record energy costs -- including sky-high home heating bills -- and a possible slowdown in home prices. 
 ''I think consumers moderate their behavior,'' said James Swanson, chief investment strategist at MFS Investment Management in Boston. ''I'm not one of those who say that the consumer is on a fragile snow bridge to nowhere that will collapse any minute -- I've never been in this camp. But they are probably going to have to moderate their spending.''
 Liz Ann Sonders, chief investment strategist at Charles Schwab, said she was realistic enough, given recent history, not to underestimate the American consumer's ability to shop. ''But I would have to say the consumer is under pressure right now,'' she said.
 Because consumer spending accounts for roughly two-thirds of the domestic economy, this year's fourth quarter, which includes the crucial holiday shopping season, may not be a time for investors to swing for the fences. 
 That means that even though small-cap stock funds continued to outperform large-cap portfolios in the third quarter, many money managers say they are drawn to the favorable valuations -- and stability -- of larger, blue-chip stocks.
 Similarly, while it paid to take risks in the third quarter -- as shown by the outperformance of Latin American stock funds and diversified emerging-markets funds -- investors may want to find safer ways to play those assets.
 Susan M. Byrne, chairwoman and chief executive of Westwood Management, a registered investment adviser based in Dallas, says that a good way to gain emerging-markets exposure is to buy shares of large, blue-chip industrial companies that sell equipment and services to developing economies. 
 ''As boring as it seems, Boeing is as much an emerging-markets play as anything else,'' Ms. Byrne said. 
 When it comes to energy stocks, she said, investors with very long time horizons may want to hold on to the shares already in their portfolios. If you are just thinking of stepping into the sector, she said, now is a good time to do research on individual stocks and funds. But, she added, she wouldn't be surprised if the energy sector pulled back a bit in the coming weeks or months, so investors may want to wait before putting new money to work.
 ZACHARY KARABELL, senior economic analyst at Fred Alger Management, the asset management firm, said that ''it's tempting to think of the energy sector as shooting ducks in a barrel, but it's not.''
 He said that well-known energy names like Exxon Mobil had clearly benefited from the rise in oil prices, but that they had underperformed other segments of the energy sector.
 Similar temptations may apply for the broad stock market in the final quarter of the year. Yes, fourth quarters have recently been great periods for fund investors to make money. So it may seem like a good time to go shooting for ducks in a barrel. But given how good the third quarter was -- and given the looming threats to the economy in the fourth -- it may be a time to keep your powder dry.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tim Robinson)(pg. 25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); WEATHER (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); EXECUTIVES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LIPPER INC (69%); MORNINGSTAR INC (69%)

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



160 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: Oil Is Up. So Is Inflation. What's New?

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
SEEMS like old times. Oil has spiked upward and inflation is back near the top of the list of things that worry Wall Street.
 Economists polled by Bloomberg News estimate that consumer prices, to be reported on Friday, rose by 0.9 percent in September after a 0.5 percent increase in August. When food and energy prices, whose movements are volatile, are factored out, the report is predicted to show a more subdued increase of 0.2 percent, compared with 0.1 percent the previous month. 
Kathy Bostjancic, senior United States economist at Merrill Lynch, expects both numbers to be ''right at the consensus.'' 
 ''I think the market is pretty much braced for that,'' she said. ''That doesn't mean we can't get some brief knee-jerk reaction, but it will probably take something far higher than that'' to provoke a decline in stocks and bonds.
 The longer-term impact depends on how the gap is eventually closed between the broad inflation rate, known as the headline rate, and core inflation, Ms. Bostjancic said.
 ''The real question is: Is the core year-on-year rate going to trend higher toward the headline rate, or will it be the reverse?'' she said. Based on history, she said, it is likely that the lower number -- the core inflation rate -- will prevail. ''The headline rate will trend toward the core rate,'' she said. ''That's what we've seen through history. Nine to 12 months after a spike in oil, the headline number has trended lower.''
 Yields on 10-year Treasury bonds have risen more than three-tenths of a percentage point in the last month. Tamer inflation could reverse that move, sending prices higher. 
 ''Bonds, particularly long-term bonds, will react positively if inflation stays low,'' Ms. Bostjancic said, ''and the stock market will take its cues from the bond market.''

DATA WATCH -- After a slow start to the week for aficionados of government economic reports, business picks up on Thursday, when the Commerce Department reports on the nation's trade balance, or lack of it. Bloomberg's poll estimates that imports exceeded exports by $59.5 billion in August, compared with $57.9 billion in July.
 Traders will have less than an hour to digest the inflation data on Friday before two important indicators of the manufacturing economy -- industrial production and capacity utilization -- are announced. Industrial production is expected to show a decline of 0.4 percent in September after a 0.1 percent increase in August. Capacity utilization is forecast to have dipped to 79.4 percent from 79.8 percent.
 A busy Friday continues with the preliminary gauge from the University of Michigan on consumer confidence for October. A post-hurricane bounce is expected to produce a reading of 80, after 76.9 last month.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Core Consumer Price Index (monthly change) since 2004.Graph tracks Balance of Trade (monthly total, billions) since 2004.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); TRENDS (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (87%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (77%); STATISTICS (77%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); BOND MARKETS (74%); FOOD PRICES (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (60%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (73%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (73%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (73%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (73%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



161 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate May Be Peaking. Or Not.

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
FUND investors who bet on real estate five years ago have been sitting pretty. The category has returned 18.8 percent a year, on average, over the five years through September, according to Morningstar. But that very success is starting to give some investors the jitters.
 Real estate is also among the top Morningstar fund categories this year, returning 26.5 percent in the 12 months through September. Still, month-to-month returns have been all over the map, and some analysts worry that this may signal a peak. The 58 real estate funds tracked by Morningstar lost 7.5 percent, on average, in January, but then bounced back. Then, in August, the funds lost 3.5 percent, and in September they were up slightly, on average.
Real estate funds have been resilient because there has not been a spike in long-term interest rates, which can prompt a sell-off in all types of real estate investments, said Dan McNeela, a fund analyst at Morningstar. ''But just because that hasn't happened yet doesn't mean that it won't happen,'' he said, and many economists predict rising rates. 
 Housing prices cooled over the summer in some local markets. A report by Prudential Douglas Elliman, a real estate firm, showed that the average price of a Manhattan apartment dropped more than 10 percent in the third quarter -- to $1.15 million. 
 Real estate investment trusts, or REIT's, have been the traditional hunting ground for most real estate fund managers. REIT's are required by law to pay 90 percent of their taxable income as dividends. But three real estate funds with good long-term performance are run by managers who don't focus on REIT's.
 Shares of home-building companies were the largest group in the CGM Realty fund from 2002 to 2004. Because they are not REIT's, these companies are not required to pay dividends -- but soaring share prices more than compensated the fund's investors for that. The fund's average annual return over those three years was 38.6 percent.
 But G. Kenneth Heebner, the fund's manager, switched course earlier this year. He said he did so ''not because I don't like the companies, but because home prices have been inflated by reckless speculation.'' He also said that lending standards for home buyers had become too lax, which could lead to more foreclosures.
 The home construction industry has boomed in recent years, as historically low mortgage rates have permitted more Americans to buy homes -- and to pay more for them. Although the share prices of home builders have soared, their earnings have kept pace, so their price-to-earnings ratios are still relatively low. But Mr. Heebner said that he did not think that low price-to-earnings ratios would be enough to shield investors if home prices fell.
 Mr. Heebner readily acknowledges that he interprets real estate investing broadly. His mandate permits him to invest in mining stocks, because they own either land or the mineral rights to land. So earlier this year -- while he was selling all of the CGM fund's shares in home builders -- he was loading up on coal stocks, which now make up about 18 percent of the portfolio. Arch Coal and Consol Energy are among Mr. Heebner's largest coal holdings.
 CGM Realty returned 44.8 percent in the 12 months through September, largely because of its stake in coal.
 Samuel A. Lieber, chief executive of Alpine Management and Research, advises three real estate funds. Alpine Funds' flagship -- Alpine U.S. Real Estate Equity --returned 36 percent in the 12 months through September, according to Morningstar.
 Mr. Lieber, who says REIT stocks have become too expensive, is holding onto the fund's large stake in home builders, despite the run-up in share prices. (Shares of home builders account for 55 percent of the portfolio.) He also favors hotel companies, and a few office REIT's in big cities where there are limits on new office construction.
 Although Mr. Lieber said he thought that the ''easy money has been made'' in home construction companies, he predicted that the group would continue to shine.
 There has been an increase in insider selling at home construction companies this year. Merrill Lynch reported last month that net insider selling had hit record highs at 8 of the 12 large publicly traded home builders. But Mr. Lieber said he was not worried because chief executives still held large stakes even after the sales. ''I think they're just being smart and saying: 'The stocks have never been this high. I am going to take 10 percent off the table,''' he said.
 Unlike Mr. Heebner, Mr. Lieber said that relatively low price-to-earnings ratios would help insulate the stocks. Five of the seven home builders that dominate the fund have P/E ratios in the single digits.
 P/E ratios and projected revenue growth are not the main investment criteria used by Ted Bigman, manager of the Morgan Stanley Real Estate fund. He says he bases his investment decisions on the value of the properties owned by a company. ''Whenever I can buy real estate cheaper on Wall Street than on Main Street, I buy it,'' he said.
 For instance, in early 2002, when many investors were dumping hotel stocks in the wake of the 9/11 terrorist attacks and the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, he was loading up on shares. He noticed that some of the better hotel stocks were priced at the equivalent of $100,000 a room, but the replacement value for those rooms was closer to $200,000.
 Although share prices have climbed, Mr. Bigman says he still likes hotel stocks because demand for hotel rooms is growing faster than supply. This year, the supply of rooms shrank in 11 of the top 20 markets in the United States because hotels were being converted to condominium apartments.
 Three of the fund's largest holdings are Host Marriott, Hilton Hotels and Starwood Hotels and Resorts Worldwide. Hilton Hotels and Starwood have shed some properties and used the proceeds to buy back their stock. Mr. Bigman said that the hotel stocks were still undervalued relative to their underlying properties.
 The Morgan Stanley Real Estate fund returned 30.7 percent in the 12 months through September. The fund has a front-end load, or sales charge, of 5.25 percent and annual expenses of 1.62 percent, with a minimum initial investment of $1,000. It is very similar to a fund sold to large investors, like pension funds, under the name Morgan Stanley Institutional Real Estate. Some individual investors have access to that no-load fund, with percent annual expenses of 0.97 percent, through their 401(k) accounts.
 The Alpine and CGM funds are no-load, meaning they can be bought without commission charges. The Alpine fund has annual expenses of 1.35 percent, and the CGM fund costs 0.96 percent a year.
 BECAUSE they put less emphasis on REIT's, these three funds have a lower yield than the 2.8 percent average for Morningstar's real estate fund category. The Alpine fund yields 2.36 percent; the Morgan Stanley fund, 2.09 percent; and the CGM fund, 0.85 percent.
 Morningstar generally recommends holding real estate funds in a tax-advantaged account, like an individual retirement account, because REIT's do not pay corporate taxes on the earnings passed directly to shareholders. So an investor could wind up paying ordinary income taxes on dividends if he holds the funds in a taxable account.
 Although real estate funds aren't as cheap as they were a few years ago, Mr. McNeela said Morningstar was not advising investors to abandon the category. Over the long term, he recommends that individual investors put 5 to 10 percent of their portfolio into real estate. But after several years of record returns, he advises an allocation closer to 5 percent for now. ''Even if the best daysof the current real estate rally are behind us, real estate should be part of your portfolio,'' he said. ''But you shouldn't expect the 30 percent gains of 2003 and 2004. That's highly unlikely to be repeated.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Black Thunder mine in Wyoming is owned by Arch Coal, one of the holdings of G. Kenneth Heebner's CGM Realty fund. (Photo by Arch Coal)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (91%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (87%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); FORECLOSURE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); DIVIDENDS (69%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); MORTGAGE RATES (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (68%); TAX LAW (64%); INCOME TAX (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



162 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Shopping By Sector, Then by Country 

BYLINE: By ZUBIN JELVEH

 BODY:
IN a world where stock markets often move in tandem, how can internationally inclined investors make intelligent decisions? 
 The answer, at least for now, appears to be to look first at the world's stocks by industry sectors -- and only then by individual countries, according to a study by Vihang R. Errunza, director of the finance research center at McGill University in Montreal, and Francesca Carrieri and Sergei Sarkissian, two assistant professors at McGill.
The reason is that even though the economies of the world's developed markets have become more integrated, the correlation among returns of different global sectors has grown much more slowly than that of different international markets, the study said. That means that investors who want to beat the market may be able to do so by finding the right global sectors. Those who just want to reduce portfolio volatility can do so by making sure that many different sectors are represented. 
 One example of this phenomenon is found in the energy sector. While the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has remained mostly flat this year, energy stocks in the United States have gained about 20 percent, following a pattern set by global oil prices. Energy stocks abroad have performed similarly, following a different global pattern than, say, financial or health care stocks.
 ''It's fair to say globalization will increase these types of patterns around the world,'' said Dan Lefkovitz, a Morningstar fund analyst.
 Many investment firms have already restructured their research teams around global sectors. 
 ''We have helped a number of firms set up their research teams recently,'' said Alistair Lowe, head of global asset allocation at State Street Global Advisors. ''They are recognizing that they can get much better results by comparing a Japanese bank versus an American bank'' than by first focusing on the region.
 With investors hungry for global and foreign investments -- flows into those types of funds rose nearly 70 percent this year through July -- how can they use this strategy?
 One way is offered by Jeremy J. Siegel, a professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, in his book, ''The Future for Investors.'' He looked at S.&P. 500 returns from 1957 to 2003 and found that the health care, consumer staples and energy sectors outperformed the index over that period. 
 Based on this evidence, Mr. Siegel concludes that as globalization progresses, these sectors will be likely to benefit from more correlated markets. He recommends tapping into these sectors through exchange-traded funds that track the S. &P. Global 1200 index, which comprises the S.&P. 500 and six other major international indexes and covers 70 percent of the world's stock markets.
 E.T.F.'s that track global sectors through the S.&P. 1200 are currently offered by Barclays. Its iShares S.&P. Global Sector Index funds track five sectors: energy, financials, health care, technology and telecommunications.
 Global sector investing has been slow to reach the mutual fund universe, but two fund families that offer a wide variety of global sector funds are Gartmore and Hartford Mutual Funds.
 Mr. Errunza of McGill suggests that investors seek stocks in the tightly correlated global sectors. For the United States, a 2004 Morgan Stanley report found that these included information technology, industrials and technology hardware and equipment; those with the least global integration were real estate, health care equipment and retailing.
 TRACKING the sentiment of fund managers is another way to select sectors. A Merrill Lynch survey in August of global portfolio fund managers showed that they expected pharmaceutical and energy sectors to be the best performers over the next year, while utilities, banks and discretionary spending were sectors that were expected to underperform.
 When it comes to emerging markets, however, global sector trends do not yet apply entirely, said Jeffrey A. Everett, manager of the Franklin Templeton World funds. The movements of emerging markets ''like South Korea, Brazil and Russia are still largely independent,'' he said.
 Despite the global sector trends, Arijit Dutta, a mutual fund analyst at Morningstar, recommends that the average individual investor stay away from pure sector plays. 
 He recommends finding funds that focus on a company's performance rather than its industry or region. 
 Two such funds, he said, are MFS Research International, which gained 18.9 percent in the 12 months through September, and Templeton World, up 24.7 percent.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Markets That Move in Sync''Since 1970, stock markets of many countries have increasingly tended to move in tandem. The correlation of returns of industry sectors has increased at a much slower rate.Graph tracks the following correlations ''MORE'' or ''LESS'' since 1970:COUNTRY LEVEL -- Correlation between U.S. stock returns and those of 16 countries in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development .INDUSTRY LEVEL -- Correlation between the stock indexes of local industries in O.E.C.D. countries, excluding the U.S.(Sources by ''The Dynamics of Geographic vs. Sectoral Diversification: Is There a Link to the Real Economy?'' by Francesca Carrieri, Vihang Errunza and Sergei Sarkissian)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (72%); INDEX FUNDS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (88%) QUEBEC, CANADA (88%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



163 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3472 words

HEADLINE: Shanghai, a Far East Feast 

BYLINE: By R.W. APPLE JR.. 
R.W. APPLE Jr. is associate editor of The New York Times.

 BODY:
MADE for trade, the modern city of Shanghai came into being in the second half of the 19th century as a commercial link with the West. British, French, German and American traders settled there, eventually followed by White Russian refugees. They built a metropolis with Asia's first telephones, running water and electric power, a city of drugs, warlords, brothels and legendary riches. And like all expatriates everywhere, they brought their tastes in food with them. To this day, the Shanghainese have an appetite for croissants and French pastry and for Russian borscht (luo song tang, or Russian soup, on menus) although many may well not know their precise origins. 
 After 1949, the old hedonistic culture was gradually submerged in Communist conformity, with gray tunics and shabby state shops supplanting the chic boutiques and throbbing dance halls that gave Shanghai its reputation as ''the whore of the Orient.'' By all accounts, food, and especially restaurant food, took a back seat to ideology.
''Ten years ago, a good restaurant was one that paid you,'' said Don St. Pierre Jr., managing partner of ASC, China's leading wine importer, with only modest hyperbole. ''Now we're on the verge of being a world-class restaurant town.'' Richard Bisset, another old China hand, said that 17 years ago, when he came to Shanghai, ''the Western food here ranged from Kobe beef to prawn thermidor. Full stop.'' 
 Today, Shanghai is again one of the most galvanic cities anywhere, with foreigners once more pouring in to seek their fortunes and the port seemingly on its way to becoming the world's busiest. It makes an old-timer like me long to be young again and live there to share in its drama. For 13 straight years, it has maintained a double-digit growth rate, as the largely vacant landscape on the eastern side of the Huangpu River has been magically transformed into the steel-and-glass financial center called Pudong. With more than 2,000 flamboyant skyscrapers, Shanghai is now a vertical village rather than the low-lying city of the 1930's, much of it built by Jewish merchants of Iraqi or Syrian origin like the Sassoons and Kadoories. The only echo of the Sassoons today is a Vidal Sassoon (no kin) hairdressing salon. But the Kadoories, who control the Hong-Kong-based Peninsula chain, are building a luxurious hotel on the Bund, the boulevard along the river.
 The slightly pompous colonial buildings lining the Bund already house some of the toniest of the city's new generation of international restaurants, including the Michael Graves-designed Jean-Georges. Renowned chefs and obscure entrepreneurs from Britain, Singapore, Australia, the United States and elsewhere have flocked to Shanghai on the heels of the bankers and brokers, eager to serve you Italian, Japanese, Thai, German or Mexican food.
 Foods from afar compete with heaping helpings of first-rate Chinese dishes, from Guangzhou, Sichuan, Hunan and of course Shanghai. Local river prawns, slow-cooked pork rump, hairy crabs (in season) and above all xiao long bao, the soup dumplings beloved in the United States, are all on offer in classic form.
 The culinary renaissance is one reason, in fact, for Shanghai's re-emergence as a prime tourist destination, along with the city's refreshing green ''lungs'' -- the many new parks and the thousands of plane trees in the former French Concession -- its matchless new art museum, its Art Deco villas and office buildings, and the endless joie de vivre of its people. Gloomy, unsmiling and reluctant to make eye contact when my wife, Betsey, and I last visited the city a decade ago, they laugh and joke today, free at last to indulge in those old Shanghai pastimes, making money and spending it with abandon.
 On the second morning of our most recent stay in Shanghai, we ran into Jean-Georges Vongerichten and his right-hand man, Daniel Del Vecchio, at the Westin Hotel's startlingly polycultural breakfast buffet. That happy accident led to a sampling of Shanghainese food at its most down-to-earth at breakfast-time the next day.
 Near the corner of Changle Lu and Xiang Yang Bei Lu, not far from the museum, where banners were incongruously heralding an exhibition about Versailles and Louis XIV, we each polished off a half-dozen steamed, pork-filled soup dumplings, the size of a silver dollar, with perilously fragile skins, without spilling too much of the scalding liquid on our shirts. Unlike most of the other stalls, the place where we ate these actually had a few tables and stools, and even a sign outside. Its name: Maxim's.
 Thicker-skinned dumplings, sheng jian bao, fried cheek-to-cheek in shallow iron pans and then steamed, were dusted with chives and black sesame seeds. We followed instructions to dip them in the exceptional black Zhenjiang vinegar. Eye-poppingly good they were, too, although Jereme (pronounced Jeremy) Leung, a member of our noshing group, speculated slyly that the frying oil had not been changed in years. 
 There were crepes at other stalls -- delicate cong you bing, or scallion pancakes, and ji dan bing, a kind of breakfast burrito. To make that, a short-order wizard spread batter on a drum-shaped grill with what looked like a painter's spatula, broke an egg on top, added a dab of fermented soybean sauce and threw in some chives, coriander and mustard-plant leaves. The whole process took just a minute. Then he slapped either a salty cruller called you tiao or a piece of crisply fried bean curd skin across the finished product and rolled it up like a scroll. Mr. Vongerichten, in seventh heaven, pronounced it ''the best breakfast in the world.''
 By that time, I felt fat as a Strasbourg goose, but my eating buddies insisted that we stop at a 24-hour noodle shop on Shandong Zhonglu, behind the Westin, to watch a particularly deft cook do his stuff. ''No need to eat,'' said Mr. Leung, a Hong Kong-born Chinese. ''Just watch.'' Sure. We watched, all right, as a huge ball of dough was kneaded and rolled and tossed and hacked into ragged little squares that reminded Mr. Vongerichten, an Alsatian, of spaetzle, and twisted and stretched and flipped and folded into long, supple noodles. But of course I had to sample a bowl of beef noodle soup, lightly curry-flavored, before we left, and of course that spoiled my lunch.
 Bao Luo, in the French Concession, is all you might expect a Chinese restaurant to be -- big, raucous, smoke-filled, dingy despite the marble on the walls -- and more. It's open until 6 in the morning, and it often features a parade of fashionistas in thigh-high white boots around midnight. Its menu provides a primer of home-style Shanghainese cooking, however bizarre the English translations (for example, ''lima bean curd with crisp hell''). Cold dishes first -- amazingly tender, custardlike tofu, a reproach to the flannel-like stuff often served outside China, topped with coriander and chili oil; ma lan tou, made from the crunchy stems of the boltonia flower (a member of the aster family that I grow, but don't eat, at my farm in Pennsylvania); ''drunken'' chicken, marinated in rice wine; and kaofu, bran cubes flavored by five-spice soy sauce. This is no cuisine for the squeamish.
 Warm plates filled the table as six of us struggled to keep up. Ti pang, the fabulously fatty Shanghainese pork shank, was luscious as foie gras. (One of our six, Tina Kanagaratnam, a Singapore-born food writer, told me, ''Shanghai girls say that if you don't eat the fat you won't have good skin.'') Crystal river prawns, bathed in egg whites before stir-frying, and yu xiang qiezi bao, spicy caramelized eggplant, were among my favorites. Patrick Cranley, Ms. Kanagaratnam's husband, a fluent Mandarin-speaker from Baltimore, noted that this was originally a Sichuan dish, long ago adopted by Shanghai as its own. ''Something in the Shanghainese character,'' he said, ''helps them to absorb, adapt and flourish.''
 Having emerged intact from Shanghainese culinary primary school, we moved directly to postgraduate studies at an unprepossessing four-table hole in the wall called Chun, a block from the Jin Jiang Hotel, where Chou En-lai and Richard M. Nixon issued their momentous communique in 1972. Susan Shirk, the State Department's top China expert in the Clinton administration, recommended it, and Dingli Shen, the Shanghai-born, Princeton-educated executive dean of the Institute of International Studies at Fudan University, joined us there. He had never been before, he said, but by the time we finished a lunchtime feast, which cost less than $8 a head, under the naked, unforgiving fluorescent bulbs, he assured us that he had never eaten better in his native city.
 That didn't surprise us a bit. Not after Lan-Lan, the round-faced, T-shirt-clad 47-year-old proprietor, who resisted all attempts to discover her formal name, had brought out her wares: among other treats, more heavenly tofu, served with salted duck egg yolk and clam strips; thin-shelled river shrimp, roe still attached, steamed with ginger; whole pomfret braised in soy (with plenty of Shanghai's beloved sugar added) and the piece de resistance, giant snails whose meat had been removed, then chopped, mixed with pork and spices and reinserted into the shells. I don't know which was better, the fragrant juices we sucked out of the shells or the meat we pried out with toothpicks.
 ''To be born in Shanghai is a great privilege,'' Dr. Shen mused. ''You get better education, better economic opportunity, better health care, better everything than elsewhere in China.'' To which I added, ''and some of the world's best food.''
 Soup dumplings are the province of specialists armed with minuscule rolling pins. The most famous of all are made at the three-story Nan Xiang restaurant, adjacent to the ancient Yu Garden, whose teahouse served as the inspiration for millions of pieces of ''willow pattern'' china. All the world adores Nan Xiang, so reserve a day ahead, or resign yourself to a long wait.
 Try in any case to wangle a seat on the third floor, the only place where the most scrumptious dumplings are served -- those whose filling includes crab roe as well as the usual crabmeat, pork and scallions. Two things set great dumplings apart from ordinary ones: the quality of the ''soup,'' or broth, which at Nan Xiang has the mellow richness of the best veal stock, and the texture of the dumpling skins, which at Nan Xiang are translucently, meltingly thin. Wobbling winningly in their steamer, these tidbits are rivaled in Shanghai only by those at Din Tai Fung, a branch of a legendary Taipei dumpling house, which also has an outlet in Arcadia, Calif., near Los Angeles.
 In the rush to modernize, much of picturesque old Shanghai has been bulldozed, though not the junk shops of Fangbang Lu, where Betsey bought a crystal ball, perhaps in hopes of divining the future of this remarkable city, where communism and capitalism thrive alongside one another against all the odds. In Xintiandi, near there, renovated and reconstructed shikumen (stone-gated) houses have been grouped into a shopping, strolling and dining complex. Wildly popular with Chinese as well as with foreign visitors, it is Shanghai's first big stab at the adaptive reuse of old buildings.
 They sometimes call Shanghai Shang-buy, and in Xintiandi you can buy minimalist handbags and sleek silk pajamas with jade buttons at Annabel Lee, velvet blazers and feathered hats at Xavier, and modern design from Scandinavia, Thailand, Italy and even China at Simply Life. You can drink coffee, nibble glorious pastries and buy hand-made chocolates at Visage. You can have a drink at TMSK, sitting on crystal stools at a crystal bar, or at nearby Zin (short for Zinfandel), a nifty wine bar.
 Xin Ji Shi is the serious-chow champ of Xintiandi, whose name means ''new heaven and earth.'' It may well serve the best hong shao rou, or red-cooked pork, in town, made from cubed pork belly bathed in a sauce made from star anise, sugar and Shanghai soy sauce, which is considered China's finest. The decor may be upscale, nouvelle Shanghai, all burnished wood and smoky glass panels, but the cooking is traditional. Our meal at Xin Ji Shi was also memorable for a basket brimming with big, rosy prawns, roast chicken and dried chilies and for a bottle of 1993 Corton brought by Mr. St. Pierre, much less so for an eel dish totally overwhelmed by a sweet, sludgy sauce.
 Hong Kong, in the form of the handsome glass-and-granite Crystal Jade dim sum emporium, is just a few steps away from Xin Ji Shi. All the southern Chinese favorites -- including char siu bao (barbecued pork buns), shrimp-filled har gow and egg tarts, among many others -- are prepared to order and served at once, not rolled through the dining room on carts. But this is Shanghai, so there are also more northern delights like crispy won tons with hot chili sauce and, of course, soup dumplings. All are light and delicate, altogether first rate.
 You can eat modern Sichuan food at South Beauty's four locations and carefully made vegetarian dishes at Vegetarian Lifestyle's three. But if pressed for time, I would make a beeline for Guyi, which wins as many points for its chic decor, featuring photos of the Shanghai that was, and its smiling (indeed giggling) service from young women as for its delicious Hunanese food. Not every dish is a flamethrower, which is as things should be. Among the high spots of a meal that balanced texture, color and intensity of flavor with unusual finesse: a great heap of green beans flavored by smoky Hunan ham; a short-rib hot pot with ginger, garlic and chilies; and fried prawns on a skewer.
 Unless you like to drink at altitude or crave a steak (in which case head for the upper floors of the Grand Hyatt Hotel, housed in the 54th to 87th floors of the Jinmao Tower building), there's no real need to visit Pudong. Stay on the western side of the river and do your gawking and talking there.
 For location, location, etc., you can't match Michelle Garnaut's groundbreaking M on the Bund, opened in 1999. With a heart-stopping view of Pudong's sci-fi skyline right there in front of you, as bold as a billboard, and the Bund's brightly illuminated buildings curving away to your left and right, M's seventh-floor terrace is as fine a perch as Shanghai affords. On balmy nights, moneyed visitors and local movers and shakers still throng it, with their champagne flutes or superbly made dry martinis in hand.
 Ms. Garnaut, an Australian long resident in China, serves mostly old-fashioned European food, some of it made from prime local ingredients -- opulent Chinese foie gras; crisp-skinned roast suckling pig; and (during their brief season) sensationally sweet peaches from Nanhui, like the ones often depicted on famille-rose porcelain.
 ''We're proud not to be on the cutting edge,'' she told me. Fair enough. But the jelly with the foie gras was much too sweet for us, the salt-baked lamb was too salty, and the kitchen seemed to lack the consistency that characterizes some competitors, notably the big, buzzy restaurants at Three on the Bund, a converted bank building.
 The dining room of one of them, Laris, is drenched in white -- white marble, white tablecloths, white orchids. ''The food and clients provide the color here,'' said the man at its helm, David Laris, formerly chef at Mezzo in London. As befits someone of Greek ancestry, he serves great fish, including raw oysters from three continents, scallops with basil and Kalamata olives, and a fabulously earthy cauliflower and caviar soup, not unlike the brew served by Jean Joho in Chicago.
 For those who require turf with their surf, there's also a delicious cross-cultural pairing of five-spiced venison with Vietnamese banana leaf salad. And for the sweet of tooth, Mr. Laris makes a remarkable panna cotta flavored with pandanus leaves, which lend a subtle, vanilla-like taste.
 Jean-Georges gave us a nearly flawless meal. After a single Kumamoto oyster with a coronet of Champagne jelly and raw tuna with a dab of mayonnaise made with Thai chili paste, the chef de cuisine, Eric Johnson, sent out an exquisite dish of cubed raw kingfish with Taiwanese mangoes (imported under a new trade agreement) and a chili-lemon granita. Peppery, sweet and acidic, yellow, orange and red, in one bite.
 Dish after dish of similar excellence followed, as lunch stretched toward the cocktail hour while boats of every kind chugged along the river outside the restaurant's windows -- more foie gras, with star anise flowers; peaches and endive hearts with pistachios and goat cheese dressing; crab dumplings with black pepper oil and tiny local peas; sweet scallops from Dalian, a port in north China, seared and paired with clams in a tomato jus; stunningly fresh steamed snapper on a basil puree, topped with cucumber strips for crunch; and Jason Casey's irresistible desserts, which coaxed every nuance of flavor from lush tropical fruits.
 The service in the elegant copper-and-blue dining room was silent and skillful, which is more than one can say about the Whampoa Club, in the same building, where the gifted 34-year-old Mr. Leung presides. His Normandie-like setting, with shantung silk, ostrich skin and hammered metal panels, is elegant enough. But the reception was disorganized, the waitresses' heels clattered intrusively on bare floors, and language skills were so rudimentary that we were utterly bewildered until a supervisor came to our assistance. This is perfectly acceptable at $10 a head, but not at $100.
 Mr. Leung's modern take on Chinese regional food is delightful. His caramelized minisquid reminded me why I was once addicted to Cracker Jacks. His ''lion's head'' pork meatballs came in a sumptuous winter-melon broth, with enoki mushrooms impishly used as ''eyes.'' His king prawns dazzled in a mild wasabi sauce. His crisp, spicy eel strips and smoked fish showed the potential of river fish, treasured in Shanghai.
 ''We begin with traditional peasant-style recipes and try to update and refine them,'' he said. ''Take the smoked fish. Usually, it's fried in the morning and left to cool all day. It often tastes stale, even rancid. We fry it to order and serve it warm, not at room temperature. But the prawns -- those, I must confess, are pure Jereme.''

Table Hopping
 The telephone country code for China is 86, and the city code for Shanghai is 21.
 Bao Lu, 2721 Fumin Lu; telephone 6279-2827. As many as 300 people are sometimes jammed into this atmospheric spot early in the evening, but go later and the crush isn't as bad. Classic Shanghainese food, less than $15 a head with beer.
 Chun, 124 Jinxian Lu; 6256-0301. Have your hotel concierge reserve well ahead for this tiny place, and take a Mandarin-speaking friend or guide if you want to understand what you're being offered. Cheap (under $10) and authentic.
 Xin Ji Shi, North Block Xintiandi, Building 9, Number 2, Lane 181; 6336-4746. The setting is sleek, the service is charming, and for the most part the food is very good. Try the noodles flavored with scallions. With wine, about $25.
 Nan Xiang, 85 Yuyuan Lu; 6355-4206. Soup-dumpling heaven in the oldest part of the city. All the xiao long bao you can eat for $20. 
 Din Tai Fung, 12-20 Shuicheng Lu; 6208-4188. It's just a branch of a Taiwanese dumpling house, but who cares? The dumplings and other dishes are first-rate, and the open kitchen puts on quite a show. About $15, $25 with wine.
 Crystal Jade, South Block Xintiandi, House 6-7, Lane 123; 6385-8752. Stylish digs and carefully prepared dim sum (including some Shanghai and Beijing items as well as Hong Kong classics) account for long lines. Typically about $20.
 Guyi Hunan, 89 Fumin Lu; 6249-5628. There's a string of red peppers made of satin near the door -- a warning that the food is spicy, but also a signal of the stylishness of this place. Good value: $12. 
 M on the Bund, 5 Zhongshan Dong Yi Lu; 6350-9988. Great views, excellent wines and competent (if inconsistent) Continental cooking that sometimes ranges into exotica like Persian salads. Eat on the terrace if it's warm. $50. 
 Laris, 3 Zhongshan Dong Yi Lu; 6321-9922. One of Shanghai's few raw bars, with great oysters and clams to begin, and some of the city's most imaginative house-made chocolates to end. This stuff does not come cheap. About $60.
 Jean-Georges, 3 Zhongshan Dong Yi Lu, 6321-7733. China's best Western-style restaurant, and every bit as successful as the Vongerichten palaces back home in New York. Cheaper, too, at $65. Polished service, gorgeous room.
 Whampoa Club, 3 Zhongshan Dong Yi Lu; 6321-3737. Jereme Leung takes Chinese food out of tourist class and puts it in first, where it belongs. In season, he works magic with the famous Shanghai hairy crabs. $60. R.W. APPLE Jr.


GRAPHIC: Photos: King prawns at Michelle Garnaut's M on the Bund.
Shanghai is bristling with skyscrapers, like these in the Pudong financial district, seen from the west side of the Huangpu River.
Prawns and chicken with red chilies at Xin Ji Shi, in the Xintiandi section, where the decor may be upscale, nouvelle Shanghai but the cooking is traditional. Hawking sheng jian bao on Changle Lu in the former French Concession. (pg. 12)
The skins of dumplings at Nan Xing, cooked in the best veal stock, are translucently, meltingly thin. Jean-Georges restaurant, set on the boulevard known as the Bund, was designed by Michael Graves. (Photographs by Nelson Ching for The New York Times)
(Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. 13)
 Nan Xiang is famous for its soup dumplings. The Bund, along the Huangpu River. Cocktail time at TMSK, in the Xintiandi district. (Photographs by Nelson Ching for The New York Times)(pg. 1)Map of China highlighting Shanghai. (pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RETAILERS (88%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (88%); BEEF (73%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (66%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (61%); HAIR STYLING SERVICES (50%) Travel and Vacations; Reviews ; Restaurants; Travel and Vacations

ORGANIZATION: Chun (Shanghai Restaurant); Xin Ji Shi (Shanghai Restaurant); Nan Xiang (Shanghai Restaurant); Din Tai Fung (Shanghai Restaurant); Crystal Jade (Shanghai Restaurant); Guyi Hunan (Shanghai Restaurant); M On the Bund (Shanghai Restaurant); Laris (Shanghai Restaurant); Jean-Georges (Shanghai Restaurant); Whampoa Club (Shanghai Restaurant)

PERSON: R W Jr Apple; Bao Lu (Shanghai Restaurant)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (94%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (87%) EAST CHINA (93%); HUNAN, CHINA (87%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (90%); SINGAPORE (79%); HONG KONG (79%) Shanghai (China); China

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



164 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: Three Starring Roles For Energy Stocks 

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD

 BODY:
ENERGY stocks of all types, from big oil and gas companies to small energy service companies, helped propel the returns of some of the top-performing stock mutual funds of the third quarter. Managers of three of those funds, all of which had concentrated portfolios, talked about their stocks and the overall market's future.

Success in Oil and Coal

 Energy stocks drove the $125 million Hennessy Focus 30 fund, which returned 16.1 percent for the quarter. The manager, Neil J. Hennessy, 49, uses computer analysis to select stocks from among 9,700 companies with market capitalizations of $1 billion to $10 billion.
 Besides evaluating stocks on their price-to-sales ratios, Mr. Hennessy looks for rising earnings and stock prices. Because the fund holds only 30 stocks, it may be more volatile than more diversified portfolios.
The fund made money in oil and gas drilling and production. ''Obviously, the price of oil has a lot to do with it,'' he said. ''Even if you could get a permit for a refinery today, it would take a long time to build it and start producing.'' That gives current refiners an advantage, he said. 
 One of the fund's holdings is the Tesoro Corporation, a refiner based in San Antonio. Its shares rose 45 percent in the quarter.
 Another winner was the Peabody Energy Corporation, whose shares rose 62 percent. Peabody, based in St. Louis, is a coal miner, marketer and trader. ''If oil continues in the $60 range,'' Mr. Hennessy said, ''people are going to look for alternative sources of energy.''
 Over all, the stock market ''is in great shape,'' Mr. Hennessy said. Despite terrorist bombings in London, hurricanes along the Gulf Coast and rising interest rates, he said, ''the bears still can't take it down.''

'Green' and 'Clean' Picks
 Energy also played a part in the strong performance of the $120 million Winslow Green Growth fund, which rose 10.2 percent in the quarter. The fund, which owns just 32 stocks, is managed by Jackson W. Robinson, 63, and Matthew W. Patsky, 42. The fund invests in ''companies that are either green or clean companies with sustainable business models, with products or services that are environmentally friendly if not proactive,'' Mr. Robinson said. It avoids companies that it views as injurious to the environment or human health, he said.
 One winner was Fuel-Tech, N.V., which was set up in the Netherlands but is based in Stamford, Conn., which specializes in air pollution control; its stock climbed 53 percent in the quarter. The company has ''one of the best technologies for cleaning up coal after it's burned, and another one for burning coal more efficiently,'' Mr. Robinson said. 
 The fund also made money in Herbalife, which operates out of Los Angeles but was incorporated in the Cayman Islands. The company, which produces and markets weight management and nutritional supplements, has what Mr. Robinson calls a ''dynamic, marketing-oriented management team.'' It also has, he said, ''a big backlog of fascinating new products, and the Asian markets are opening up for them in a big way.'' Its shares rose 40 percent in the quarter. 
 Another winner was Intellisynch, in San Jose, Calif., a producer of software used for wireless e-mail and information access; its shares rose 64 percent. The company is ''a play on wireless,'' he said. ''They have better, faster, cheaper software'' for personal digital assistants like BlackBerries, he added, and its market is growing ''because everything is moving to the Internet and to our hands.'' 
 Mr. Robinson was cautious about the stock market's future. ''Because we're in a period of rising interest rates and declining economic growth,'' he said, ''we believe that growth companies with sustainable business models that meet or beat their earnings expectations will perform well.''

A Focus on Energy Services
 Energy stocks account for 21 percent of the assets of the $200 million Brandywine Advisors fund, which rose 14.1 percent in the quarter. The manager, William F. D'Alonzo, built the energy stake by seeking out reasonably priced companies with large earnings potential. The fund, which has a minimum investment of $10,000, owns 45 stocks.
 The fund typically avoids stocks that are dependent on commodity prices, which are unpredictable, Mr. D'Alonzo said. It therefore owns no big integrated energy companies, preferring companies that provide services for the big companies. ''There's a dire need for exploration and production,'' he said, ''so the service companies should do well over the next couple of years no matter what happens to oil prices.'' 
 One example is Weatherford International, based in Houston. Weatherford provides equipment and services to energy drillers and producers. ''It's one of the best companies in the industry and it's got the wind at its back,'' he said. Its shares rose 18.4 percent in the quarter.
 The fund also made money in Southwestern Energy, a land-based natural gas exploration and production company in Houston; its stock climbed 56.2 percent.
 ''Before Hurricane Katrina, given a normal winter, there would be a national gas shortage,'' Mr. D'Alonzo said. ''But the hurricanes did significant damage to gas drillers in the gulf and will continue to push prices up.'' 
 Another winner was Coventry Health Care, a managed-care company in Bethesda, Md.. Coventry acquires other health maintenance organizations and managed health care plans around the country, and then brings in its own management to revamp operations and increase profits, Mr. D'Alonzo said. Coventry shares rose 22 percent in the quarter.
 ''We are still pretty bullish,'' Mr. D'Alonzo said of the overall market. ''While interest rates are rising and you could have a hiccup on account of the hurricanes, there's still a lot of opportunity out there.''

 +10.2%
Small-cap growth
+5.8

(Sources by Morningstar Inc.; Bloomberg Financial Markets)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jackson W. Robinson, manager of the Winslow Green Growth fund, said it invested in companies that were environmentally friendly. (Photo by Robert Spencer for The New York Times)
The Hennessy Focus 30 fund, managed by Neil J. Hennessy, made money in investments in oil and gas drilling and production. (Photo by Thor Swift for The New York Times)
 William F. D'Alonzo, manager of the Brandywine Advisors fund. He prefers companies that provide services for big energy concerns.Chart: ''Ahead of the Pack''Here is how three of the best-performing stock funds in the first quarter fared against the overall market and their peer groups.Graphs track the following (as well as the S.&P. 500) for June, July, and August:Hennessy Focus 30Winslow Green GrowthBrandywine AdvisorsTHIRD-QUARTER RETURNSHennessy Focus 30+16.1%Midcap blend5.0Brandywine Advisors+14.1%Midcap growth+6.6Winslow Green Growth

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (79%); OIL & GAS PRICES (79%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); COAL MINING (71%); AIR POLLUTION (71%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); BOMBINGS (63%); CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY (62%); TERRORISM (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PEABODY ENERGY CORP (92%); TESORO CORP (67%); FUEL TECH INC (61%)

TICKER: BTU (NYSE) (92%); TSO (NYSE) (67%); FTEK (NASDAQ) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213113 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR COAL MINING (92%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (92%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (67%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (61%); NAICS423730 WARM AIR HEATING & AIR-CONDITIONING EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (61%); NAICS333413 INDUSTRIAL & COMMERCIAL FAN & BLOWER & AIR PURIFICATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (61%); SIC5075 WARM AIR HEATING & AIR-CONDITIONING EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (61%); SIC3564 INDUSTRIAL & COMMERCIAL FANS & BLOWERS & AIR PURIFICATION EQUIPMENT (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) NETHERLANDS (51%); UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



165 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3113 words

HEADLINE: The Tort Wars, at a Turning Point

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
FOR the lawyers who file lawsuits against corporations, it looked like the next big thing -- the next fen-phen, asbestos or even tobacco, the mother of all jackpots.
 Like the lawsuits involving asbestos, the fire-retardant material that when inhaled can cause a horrible lung cancer, the new suits involved a substance that under certain circumstances could harm the lungs: silica, a purified sand used as a cleaning abrasive as well as in making glass, paint, ceramics and other materials. Silica dust, when inhaled, can lodge in the lungs, causing silicosis, a disabling and often fatal lung disease.
For the companies facing litigation, it looked like a repeat nightmare. After all, settling asbestos claims -- more than 700,000 have been filed over the last 30 years -- has cost more than $70 billion, according to the RAND Corporation. Of that amount, RAND estimates that nearly one-third has gone to plaintiffs' lawyers. 
 But silica cases have turned the conventional wisdom of asbestos litigation on its head. Instead of settling early, paying money into a compensation fund and using bankruptcy filings to put the liability firmly into the past, companies facing silica suits fought back -- and won a crucial victory that is already being copied by other lawyers fighting class-action lawsuits. By playing courtroom hardball, forcing lawyers for claimants to produce evidence that their clients had silicosis symptoms and deserved compensation, a small group of defense lawyers may have just changed the rules of so-called mass tort litigation. 
 Vindication of the strategy, which companies and their insurers initially viewed as very risky, came in June in the form of a harshly worded, 249-page decision by United States District Judge Janis Graham Jack in Corpus Christi, Tex. Judge Jack not only called for sanctions on one of the plaintiffs'-side law firms, but she also slammed the whole process that led to the claims landing in court in the first place. The medical findings underlying the claims, based on X-ray screenings paid for by lawyers looking for potential clients, were worthless, she wrote.
 ''It is apparent that truth and justice had very little to do with these diagnoses -- otherwise more effort would have been devoted to ensuring they were accurate,'' Judge Jack wrote. ''These diagnoses were driven by neither health nor justice: they were manufactured for money. The record does not reveal who originally devised this scheme, but it is clear that the lawyers, doctors and screening companies were all willing participants.''
 Although Judge Jack's decision did not end the litigation -- it sent many cases back to the state courts where they had been filed -- it was a landmark event, with a clear lesson for companies everywhere that are under attack by trial lawyers. 
 ''Based on that opinion, defendants really need to go back to square one and fight,'' said Sheila L. Birnbaum, a partner at Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom in New York who defends companies against mass tort claims but was not involved in the silica cases. ''This decision should be a signal.''
 LEAD lawyers for the claimants in the silica cases did not return calls last week seeking comment for this article.
 For the defense team, the road to Judge Jack's decision was not easy. But enough executives were angry enough and suspicious enough about the claims that a group of companies agreed to work together and share some of the risks and costs of litigation.
 ''I felt like the system was broken, and you could go along with the status quo and let it stay broken or you could do something about it,'' said Suzy McDonald, a vice president at Custom Aggregates and Grinding Inc., which was one of the defendants in the case before Judge Jack. Custom Aggregates, based in Picayune, Miss., previously sold silica to the oil and shipbuilding industries and has been hit with thousands of silicosis claims from people contending that they had worked with silica provided by the company.
 According to the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health, the number of deaths caused by silicosis has fallen steadily for decades, to 187 in 1999 from 1,157 in 1968. The trend in lawsuits, though, has followed a different path. In Mississippi alone, according to an internal database kept by Forman Perry Watkins Krutz & Tardy, a 120-lawyer firm in Jackson that coordinated the defense of about 30 companies facing silicosis claims, there were 226 claims in 1999, 40 in 2000, 76 in 2001 and more than 10,000 in 2002 -- the year before a change in state law governing civil lawsuits took effect.
 The first thing that the defense lawyers sought was to have the cases transferred to federal court from state court. Mississippi state courts had a reputation for treating corporate defendants in class-action cases harshly, not just by imposing huge jury verdicts, but also by allowing certain procedural moves that favored plaintiffs' lawyers -- like permitting them to combine thousands of claims by people in the state with those of people outside the state.
 Combining claims is a powerful tactic for plaintiffs' lawyers, said Fred Krutz, a lawyer at Forman Perry. ''The strategy was, you would get a bellwether plaintiff, a plaintiff with a really good case, and join them with 100 lousy plaintiffs, file one lawsuit and then hold the defendants over a barrel,'' he said. If a company refused to settle the weak claims, he said, a plaintiffs' lawyer could refuse to settle the strong claim.
 But Mr. Krutz and his colleagues had a plan to turn the sheer volume of claims to their advantage, by putting them all into one courthouse, before one judge. Once they had the cases transferred to federal court, they submitted a motion to have the claims consolidated. The motion was granted in early fall of 2003, and roughly 10,000 silica claims ended up before Judge Jack, a nurse-turned-lawyer who was nominated to the bench by President Bill Clinton in 1993. 
 ''If we could get thousands of plaintiffs in one court and have one judge get information on all of them,'' Mr. Krutz said, ''you could put the puzzle together.''
 Not all the companies that his firm ended up representing fully endorsed the strategy. Some insurance company executives, for example, worried that fighting claims would just increase the size of an eventual settlement. 
 Ms. McDonald of Custom Aggregates recalled difficult conversations about the best way to cope with the thousands of claims the company suddenly found itself facing by the end of 2002. ''Historically, insurance companies have offered relatively small settlements to make these claims go away,'' said Ms. McDonald, the daughter of the company's owner, referring to past industry practices. ''My thinking was, if you offer a couple of thousand dollars and you've got 20,000 people suing you, that takes care of those 20,000, but the lawyers are going to say, 'Hey, let's go sign up another 20,000.' It just never goes away.''
 With roughly 10,000 silica claims in one courtroom in Corpus Christi by the end of 2003, the next step was to persuade Judge Jack to let the defendants gather information on the basis of each claim. On Feb. 5, 2004, she did exactly that, giving each plaintiff two months to fill out a form indicating his or her employment history, illness and the names of doctors seen. The claimants were also asked to provide their Social Security numbers on the forms. This information turned out to be crucial.
 Forman Perry kept a database of people who had filed asbestos claims; the database was built over years of representing companies battling asbestos litigation. And as they loaded the information from the silica claimants' forms, lawyers found that some of these claimants had also filed asbestos claims.
 ''They would show up in our internal information system as asbestos victims,'' recalled Daniel J. Mulholland, a lawyer at Forman Perry who worked with Mr. Krutz. 
 The question was: Could these people have had both diseases? That would be possible, and certified ''B readers'' -- people trained to read X-rays to evaluate signs of asbestosis, silicosis or other lung-related diseases -- could reach different conclusions. One solution would be to hire independent experts to review the X-rays of each silica claimant who had already filed an asbestos claim and thus figure out if the person had both silicosis and asbestosis, just one of them or neither. 
 Mr. Mulholland pulled the medical records from the asbestos claims and noticed something else: in hundreds of cases, the same doctor who had diagnosed asbestosis in a claimant went on to diagnose silicosis in the same person a few years later. Although not impossible, it is highly unlikely that someone developed signs of a second disease in the period between diagnoses, and it would be reasonable to expect a doctor reviewing the X-rays to note signs of both diseases if they were present. The doctors did not do that; Mr. Mulholland concluded that they were ''flip flops.''
 ''I was able to document 400 examples of that just based on our firm's files,'' Mr. Mulholland said, but he needed more data to find out whether more silica claimants had previously filed asbestos claims. ''The next question was: How do I get more of the asbestos reference points?''
 There is one institution that may have more data on asbestos claims than any other, and that is the Manville Personal Injury Settlement Trust. It was set up in 1988 to pay people who brought asbestos claims against Johns Manville, the building materials company now owned by Berkshire Hathaway. Since it was created, the Manville Trust has paid out $3.3 billion to resolve 655,096 claims. Perhaps, Mr. Mulholland thought, the trust could provide a list of the Social Security numbers of claimants it had paid, and then Forman Perry could compare them with the Social Security numbers of silica claimants.
 Executives at the companies battling the silica claims, many of them students of asbestos litigation, were skittish about putting all of their eggs into one courtroom. Working through the National Industrial Sand Association, a trade group, they tried ''to expose these lawsuits for what they are: a manufactured legal epidemic, not a medical epidemic,'' said Mark Ellis, president of the association, in a statement.
 One marketing firm, Charles Ryan Associates of Charleston, W.Va., proposed a two-year campaign that would try to expose potential fraud in silica claims while also ''telling the positive story of a better life through responsible uses of sand,'' according to a document it prepared for the industry group. The association eventually gave the job to another company, Porter Novelli.
 IN the end, it would be depositions, not press releases, that would prove most effective. Armed with the evidence of multiple claims by the same person, first seeking compensation for an asbestos-related injury and then for a silica-related injury, Mr. Krutz and Mr. Mulholland asked Judge Jack if they could question one of the doctors, George H. Martindale, of Mobile, Ala. Dr. Martindale had diagnosed more than 3,600 people with silicosis, according to court documents, and Mr. Mulholland had found that some of them had previously submitted asbestos claims.
 The deposition, on Oct. 29, 2004, went better than the defense lawyers could have hoped. At one point, Mr. Mulholland asked: ''Would it be fair to say that this appears to state a clinical diagnosis of silicosis when, in fact, that's not what you did?'' Dr. Martindale answered: ''Correct.''
 Under the questioning, Dr. Martindale said he never talked to any of the claimants whose X-rays he read, either to learn their work histories or to notify them if he determined that they suffered from silicosis. Pushing further, Mr. Mulholland asked Dr. Martindale whether he stood by the diagnoses. Dr. Martindale responded, ''If another physician hadn't established a diagnosis of silicosis/asbestosis, I would withdraw that. I would -- I would say that I am personally not making a diagnosis of asbestosis or silicosis.''
 Dr. Martindale could not be reached for comment.
 The deposition opened the door to questioning the other doctors whose diagnoses supported nearly all of the silica claims in the federal proceeding in Corpus Christi. It also appeared to irritate Judge Jack. At a hearing last December, she said the doctor's withdrawal of a diagnosis was ''a fraudulent problem,'' so she scheduled an unusual three-day hearing in February at which lawyers would be able to question all the doctors whose diagnoses supported the silica claims.
 In January, the claimant information from the Manville Trust started to arrive, prompting a frenzy to load the data into Forman Perry's database. Mr. Mulholland remembered sitting in his office on the last Sunday of the month, working with the data and coming to realize that more than half of the claimants in the silica litigation had previously filed asbestos claims with the trust. ''I was just blown away,'' Mr. Mulholland said. He had the critical evidence to challenge the diagnosing doctors.
 The hearing was a watershed. Several doctors on the witness stand withdrew their diagnoses and said they had never interviewed the people whose X-rays, or in some cases just reports on their X-rays, they had analyzed. In some cases, doctors could not explain how they diagnosed asbestosis in a claimant at one time and silicosis at a later date, even when looking at the same X-ray.
 It was a rare courtroom moment, one usually reserved for novels or movies. Mr. Mulholland recalled that when he asked one doctor about two differing diagnoses based on the same X-ray, the doctor, Ray A. Harron, explained the discrepancy by saying he made the diagnoses on ''widely separated dates.'' 
 When Dr. Harron was asked about another case of a person who first received a diagnosis of one disease, and then of the other, Judge Jack interrupted the questioning to ask what happened to the first illness. ''Well,'' she said, ''where did it go?''
 Dr. Harron responded, ''Like I say, I don't know.'' Shortly after that, Dr. Harron cut his testimony short, citing the need to retain his own lawyer. He did not return calls seeking comment on the silica proceedings. In a deposition last year, Dr. Harron said he charged up to $125 for each case he reviewed; the amount was not affected by his diagnosis. If he had to travel to make a diagnosis, he said he might set a minimum fee to cover his travel costs and his time.
 Diagnoses from Dr. Harron and one other doctor accounted for about 90 percent of the silica diagnoses, and they had previously diagnosed thousands of people -- some of them the same people -- with asbestosis. If their claims rested on shaky ground, then the defense team had successfully undermined all the claims their clients faced. 
 ''I've been in a lot of courtrooms and had some good days and some bad days,'' Mr. Krutz said, recalling the three days of hearings. ''That might be the most dramatic thing I've heard in court.''
 After word spread of what happened at the hearing in February, he and Mr. Mulholland became celebrities -- at least in the legal world. Mr. Krutz spoke at a symposium organized by the Brookings Institution. Mr. Mulholland addressed lawmakers in Texas and Florida, and both men were featured in newspaper articles, on the radio and on television.
 Aftershocks from the February hearing are still spreading. The Manville Trust has barred payment of claims based on diagnoses by any of nine doctors involved in the silica litigation. One of those doctors, Dr. Harron, was responsible for 53,724 asbestos claims, more than any other doctor and nearly 8 percent of the 691,910 asbestos claims that the trust has received, according to the trust. Many of those were paid long ago.
 FEDERAL prosecutors in New York have opened an investigation into the claims and have issued subpoenas for documents to the Manville Trust, to a screening company that took X-rays of silica claimants and to others whose identities are still unknown. (A spokeswoman for the United States attorney's office declined to comment on the investigation.)
 And in asbestos lawsuits that are still being heard, defense lawyers for companies or their insurers are using the Corpus Christi revelations to attack settlement agreements to compensate claimants. Last month, lawyers for W.R. Grace & Company, a building materials maker that is in Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings because of asbestos claims against it, asked a Delaware bankruptcy court to let them investigate the lawyers involved in filing those claims. Grace's lawyers cited Judge Jack's decision.
 At some level, the outcome of the silica litigation raises the question of why defense lawyers were not more successful in challenging the validity of claims in the past. While lawyers point to the cost of investigating and challenging claims, it is also true that defense and bankruptcy lawyers have earned a lot of money handling claims the way they have been handled, paying off plaintiffs through years of Chapter 11 proceedings. And it is also true that there are people who have been made sick by their exposure to asbestos and silica.
 Lawyers who represent people suffering from chronic and often incurable cancers as a result of exposure to either substance now worry that companies will try to avoid making payments even to deserving, genuinely sick claimants. Companies could try to persuade a court to disallow claims or could seek legislation to block claims, in either case arguing that there was no way to cope with potential fraud.
 ''There's no question that the defendants will definitely use it as their big public relations push, probably this fall and into next year, as a rationale for the asbestos bill,'' said Peter A. Kraus, a lawyer at Waters & Kraus in Dallas, referring to draft legislation, currently working its way through Congress, that is intended to limit asbestos-related litigation. Mr. Kraus's clients all suffer from a cancer caused by exposure to asbestos. ''We're certainly concerned about them using that as the Trojan horse to wipe out dust disease litigation.''
 The problem, as Judge Jack observed in her decision this summer, is that all this legal maneuvering has done next to nothing to get compensation to people who are actually sick as a result of exposure to silica -- and there are such people. 
 ''Silicosis is a continuing tragedy in our country,'' Judge Jack wrote. ''Those suffering the effects of the disease do not need an inflated number of claims to lend gravitas to their situation. Their tragedy stands on its own.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Judge Janis Graham Jack sharply criticized the silica-related claims that landed in her courtroom. (Photo by Raymond Gray for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Daniel Mulholland, standing, and Fred Krutz defended about 30 companies facing silicosis claims. (Photo by Suzi Altman for The New York Times)(pg. 7)Chart: ''Opposing Trends''Fewer people are dying of silicosis, a lung disease caused when people inhale silica dust, but the number of people filing claims saying they were injured by exposure to silica, has skyrocketed in the last few years.Graphs track the following since 1975:Annual deaths from silicosis in the United StatesAnnual silica plaintiffs against U.S. Silica**U.S. Silica is a large silica producer that is named in most silica lawsuits in the United States.(Sources by National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health
 U.S. Silica)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (94%); LAWYERS (93%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); SILICOSIS (90%); TORTS (90%); ASBESTOS (90%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (90%); TOXIC TORTS (90%); BUSINESS TORTS (89%); BUSINESS LIABILITY (78%); TRIAL & PROCEDURE (78%); CLASS ACTIONS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); JUDGES (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (77%); CANCER (77%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (74%); LUNG CANCER (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: RAND CORP (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



166 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: Blueprints From Cities That Rose From Their Ashes

BYLINE: By Anna Bernasek

 BODY:
ECONOMICS is often referred to as science, yet the discipline suffers from a profound limitation. Economists theorize from their observations but find it almost impossible to conduct definitive experiments, particularly in the realm of macroeconomics. There simply isn't a laboratory where they can go to experiment on the general public.
 Until disaster strikes. 
A major disaster, like Hurricane Katrina, acts as an involuntary experiment on the economic system. It's a bit like giving a patient a severe wound and then studying whether she survives.
 The results can be revealing. In the case of a disaster that levels a city, it's quite clear what the city looked like just beforehand, so we can judge its recovery by how quickly and thoroughly it returns to normal. It's rare for a city to die, the way ancient Pompeii did, but the pace of recovery can vary greatly from city to city, and those differences can shed light on how to accelerate recovery from future disasters. 
 What's more, urban disasters may provide clues to some great puzzles of economics. One of these is how to organize an economy, maximizing prosperity by getting the right mix of government and private involvement.
 Start with two success stories stemming from disasters at the turn of the last century, in Galveston, Tex., and San Francisco. 
 The hurricane that hit Galveston in 1900 killed perhaps 10,000 people, about 25 percent of the city's residents at the time, and destroyed 8,000 buildings. By 1907, Galveston had largely recovered -- regaining its population and its status as a major port. It then ranked second only to New York City in the value of its exports, doing substantially more business than New Orleans.
 In 1906, most of San Francisco survived the initial earthquake only to be leveled in an inferno that raged unchecked. Some 28,000 buildings were destroyed. Nearly five square miles burned, and 3,000 people were killed. But in just three years, 25,000 new buildings lined the streets, and by 1911, San Francisco had substantially recovered.
 So what made those two recoveries possible? In both cases, government money made up only a portion of the total losses. By far the main work of rebuilding was done by private individuals. But government at all levels -- national, state and local -- played a main role in re-establishing the confidence of the entrepreneurs, investors and ordinary citizens that is a prerequisite for economic growth. It achieved this in three ways.
 First, government ensured public safety, securing the city against the risk of repeating the same disaster. The city of Galveston, for example, decided to build a sea wall to protect residents from future storms. More than eight miles long and four feet higher than any hurricane surge known at the time, the wall was financed by a variety of local, state and federal sources. And as a further precaution, the entire grade of the city was raised 1 to 15 feet above its previous level. 
 In San Francisco, the federal and local governments worked together to secure the city against earthquake and fire. And the federal government guaranteed a bond issue for the city equal to 10 percent of total damages.
 Second, all levels of government reacted promptly and vigorously in each case, taking decisive and tangible steps that provided an essential public reassurance to traumatized citizens.
 Immediate government spending provided employment to suddenly homeless and jobless citizens, priming the pump of the local economies as they fought to regain their stroke. Two days after the earthquake in San Francisco, while the fires were still smoldering, Congress took action toward rebuilding all the public buildings that had been destroyed. That provided work for many who had their lost jobs. President Theodore Roosevelt ordered the Treasury to deposit federal funds immediately into local banks, in effect making an interest-free loan for rebuilding. 
 Local government acted swiftly, too. In barely a week, Eugene E. Schmitz, the mayor of San Francisco, called together 40 leading business figures to form a committee on reconstruction. And initial plans for rebuilding were rejected by the committee in favor of even faster progress. 
 Third, government focused on what was really important, providing not only essential public safety but also a level playing field.
 In Galveston, civic leaders undertook anti-corruption reforms that became a model for cities elsewhere. In a city once dominated by machine politics, a commission of five elected commercial experts was given the responsibility of managing the city.
 In San Francisco, public officials pursued the goal of fairness in other ways. Leaders like Representative Julius Kahn, a Republican whose district included San Francisco, took on the insurers. They put great pressure on companies that had been refusing to pay fire insurance claims. The companies contended that the damages were due to earthquake, a risk not covered under typical fire policies. In the end, most claims were paid, greatly helping the burned-out city's recovery -- although some insurance companies went under.
 There are also important lessons from elsewhere in the world. Consider Germany after World War II. In a recent paper, three Dutch researchers -- Steven Brakman, Harry Garretsen and Marc Schramm -- examined the rate of recovery of German cities in the 20 years after the Allied bombings. At the end of that period, they found, West Germany had recovered, but East German cities had not. West Germany, of course, had two enormous advantages: the Marshall Plan and the involvement of private banks and entrepreneurs. 
 Even in the most horrific circumstances, cities can come back. According to David E. Weinstein, a specialist on Japan in the economics department at Columbia University, Hiroshima lost about 20 to 30 percent of its population after the atomic bomb attack of 1945. Professor Weinstein, with his colleague Professor Donald R. Davis, found that after about 30 years, the city had in many ways recovered. 
 It took that long because the Japanese government was overwhelmed -- 66 cities had been bombed during the war -- and essentially bankrupt. ''The recovery of Japan's cities was almost all a private initiative,'' Professor Weinstein said. ''There just wasn't money around for the government to rebuild Japan.''
 Divining the right mix of government and private activity lies at the very heart of economic policymaking. What disasters show us is the difference between arrangements that work and those that don't. San Francisco recovered in only five years. Nearly a hundred years later, shouldn't we try to do better in New Orleans?


GRAPHIC: Photo: After the earthquake and fire in San Francisco in 1906, Congress and local government offered aid measures right away. These included rebuilding programs, which gave jobs to displaced workers. (Photo by Arnold Genthe via Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); HURRICANE KATRINA (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: GALVESTON, TX, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



167 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: October 9, 2005

 BODY:


	 	 	 	 			Weeks			This	Last	On			Week	Week	List	FICTION			 	 	 	 	1		1	Anansi boys, by Neil Gaiman. (Morrow, $26.95.) After his father dies, Fat Charlie learns that Dad led a secret life as a trickster god.			 	 	 	 	2		1	goodnight nobody, by Jennifer Weiner. (Atria, $26.) An unhappy suburban mother gains her independence by investigating a murder.			 	 	 	 	3	1	132	THE DA VINCI CODE, by Dan Brown. (Doubleday, $24.95; special illustrated edition, $35.) A murder at the Louvre leads to a trail of clues found in the work of Leonardo and to the discovery of a secret society.			 	 	 	 	4		1	the march, by E. L. Doctorow. (Random House, $25.95.) The story of Sherman's sweep through the South and the lives he left in his wake.			 	 	 	 	5	7	2	on beauty, by Zadie Smith. (Penguin Press, $25.95.) Personal and cultural battles between two academic families.			 	 	 	 	6*	6	4	the widow of the south, by Robert Hicks. (Warner, $24.95.) After the Battle of Franklin in 1864, a Tennessee woman turns over her plantation to Confederate troops for use as a hospital -- and also as a cemetery.			 	 	 	 	7	2	15	the historian, by Elizabeth Kostova. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) A young woman's quest to learn the truth about her father's life and her mother's death involves research into Vlad the Impaler and Dracula. 			 	 	 	 	8	3	4	polar shift, by Clive Cussler with Paul Kemprecos. (Putnam, $26.95.) Kurt Austin must contend with the leader of an antiglobalization group who possesses technology that has the potential to destroy all of humanity.			 	 	 	 	9	10	3	lipstick jungle, by Candace Bushnell. (Hyperion, $24.95.) Three women struggle to balance their high-powered jobs and their messy home lives.			 	 	 	 	10	5	5	point blank, by Catherine Coulter. (Putnam, $25.95.) Dillon Savich and Lacey Sherlock -- F.B.I. agents as well as husband and wife -- pursue a violent couple.			 	 	 	 	11		1	friends, lovers, chocolate, by Alexander McCall Smith. (Pantheon, $21.95.) A heart transplant patient enlists Isabel's help investigating the possible murder of his donor; a Sunday Philosophy Club novel.			 	 	 	 	12	8	6	chill factor, by Sandra Brown. (Simon & Schuster, $25.95.) A successful magazine editor is trapped in her remote cabin with a man believed to be a serial killer.			 	 	 	 	13*	12	2	shalimar the clown, by Salman Rushdie. (Random House, $25.95.) A former American ambassador to India is murdered by his Kashmiri Muslim driver.			 	 	 	 	14	11	3	high druid of shannara: Straken, by Terry Brooks. (Del Rey/Ballantine, $26.95.) Accompanied by a dwarf and an elven princess, Pen Ohmsford must save his aunt from exile; the final volume of a fantasy trilogy.			 	 	 	 	15	4	2	thud!, by Terry Pratchett. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) As the anniversary of the battle of Koom Valley approaches, tensions between trolls and dwarfs mount. Part of the Discworld series.			 	 	 	 			Weeks				 	 	 	 	This	Last	On				 	 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION			 	 	 	 	1	1	25		the world is flat, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50.) A columnist for The New York Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy and presents an overview of globalization trends.		 	 	 	 	2	2	18	1776, by David McCullough. (Simon & Schuster, $32.) An account of America's founding year by the Pulitzer Prize-winning author, focusing on the inexperienced George Washington and heroic citizen soldiers. 			 	 	 	 	3*	3	24	freakonomics, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $25.95.) A maverick scholar applies economic thinking to everything from sumo wrestlers who cheat to legalized abortion and the falling crime rate.			 	 	 	 	4	4	37	blink, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) The author of ''The Tipping Point'' explores the importance of hunch and instinct to the workings of the mind.			 	 	 	 	5	10	3	the tender bar, by J. R. Moehringer. (Hyperion, $23.95.) A coming-of-age memoir of a fatherless boy for whom the regulars at a Long Island saloon become a substitute family.			 	 	 	 	6	5	2	a man without a country, by Kurt Vonnegut. (Seven Stories, $23.95.) Autobiographical essays and observations from the author of ''Slaughterhouse-Five.''			 	 	 	 	7		1	never have your dog stuffed, by Alan Alda. (Random House, $24.95.) A memoir by the television, movie and Broadway actor.			 	 	 	 	8	6	12	100 people who are screwing up america, by Bernard Goldberg. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) The author of ''Bias'' takes aim at ''Hollywood blowhards,'' ''America bashers,'' rappers and others.			 	 	 	 	9	11	2	where god was born, by Bruce Feiler. (Morrow, $26.95.) The author of ''Walking the Bible'' travels 10,000 miles through the heart of the Middle East.			 	 	 	 	10	9	3	bait and switch, by Barbara Ehrenreich. (Metropolitan/Holt, $24.) The author of ''Nickel and Dimed'' explores the world of white-collar job hunting.			 	 	 	 	11	8	8	the fairtax book, by Neal Boortz and John Linder. (ReganBooks/HarperCollins, $24.95.) A radio talk show host and a United States congressman call for the abolishment of the federal income tax and the I.R.S.			 	 	 	 	12	7	9	new rules, by Bill Maher. (Rodale, $24.95.) The comedian and host of ''Real Time With Bill Maher'' takes on everyone from President Bush to Bob Dylan.			 	 	 	 	13		1	the bob dylan scrapbook, 1956-1966, with text by Robert Santelli. (Simon & Shuster, $45.) A companion volume to ''No Direction Home: Bob Dylan,'' a Martin Scorsese documentary aired on the PBS program ''American Masters.''			 	 	 	 	14	13	13	confessions of a video vixen, by Karrine Steffans. (Amistad/HarperCollins, $24.95.) A tell-all by an actress who has appeared in many hip-hop videos.			 	 	 	 	15	16	2	mother angelica, by Raymond Arroyo. (Doubleday, $23.95.) A biography of the nun who founded the Eternal Word Television Network.			 	 	 	 	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Sept. 24, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books. Editors' Choice
 Other recent books of particular interest
 SLOW MAN, by J. M. Coetzee. (Viking, $24.95.) Crippled at 60 in a car-bike accident, instructed willy-nilly by a know-it-all female novelist, Coetzee's hero studies the diminished life.
 LOVESICK BLUES: The Life of Hank Williams, by Paul Hemphill. (Viking, $23.95.) The course of the country singer (1923-53) who managed to die at 29 after every kind of troubled existence.
 GIRL SLEUTH: Nancy Drew and the Women Who Created Her, by Melanie Rehak. (Harcourt, $25.) Rehak brings to life the people who invented and maintained this influential series. 
 MARK TWAIN: A Life, by Ron Powers. (Free Press, $35.) A wise and lively biography of an American paradox, always lively, rarely wise.
 PARTY IN THE BLITZ: The English Years, by Elias Canetti. (New Directions, $22.95.) Canetti, a refugee in London, thought rarely about Hitler but obsessively about his hatred of T. S. Eliot. 
 BEYOND GLORY: Joe Louis vs. Max Schmeling, and a World on the Brink, by David Margolick. (Knopf, $26.95.) A heavyweight chronicle of good's symbolic clash with evil in the ring. 
 MY DETACHMENT: A Memoir, by Tracy Kidder. (Random House, $24.95.) Kidder's account of service in Vietnam spares himself nothing.
 MY FATHER THE SPY: An Investigative Memoir, by John H. Richardson. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) A passionately engaging attack on the brick wall around the life of a high C.I.A. officer. 
 CARAVAGGIO: Painter of Miracles, by Francine Prose. (Atlas/HarperColllins, $21.95.) A fresh eye on perhaps the greatest, certainly the most transgressive, Italian artist of his day.
 THE WORLD ON SUNDAY: Graphic Art in Joseph Pulitzer's Newspaper (1898-1911), by Nicholson Baker and Margaret Brentano. (Bulfinch, $50.) The life of the first Sunday paper as we know it, free-standing sections and all. 
 BLOOD RELATION, by Eric Konigsberg. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) A journalist renders the life story of his great-uncle, a violent criminal and, if volume counts, a successful one.
 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); FAMILY (77%); WOMEN (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); HOMICIDE (71%); HISTORY (68%); GLOBALIZATION (50%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

PERSON: DAN BROWN (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); KASHMIR (75%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (51%) UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



168 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Big and Powerful S.U.V.'s Are Nudged by Less Thirsty Cars

BYLINE: By MARGARET FARLEY STEELE

 BODY:
AS gasoline prices hit record highs, and the White House calls for Americans to conserve fuel, some Connecticut drivers are rethinking their love affair with the S.U.V.
 Coveted for their roomy interiors and powerful presence, but reviled by many as gas guzzlers, S.U.V.'s have become a symbol of modern suburbia. Now, symbolism is beginning to yield to pragmatism.
Refueling the family's 2004 Ford Expedition has simply become too expensive, said Michael Asmar of Bethel. 
 ''It only gets about 10 miles to the gallon,'' said Mr. Asmar, a computer programmer, explaining that he and his wife, Michelle, plan to sell it and buy a smaller, more efficient S.U.V. She uses the car to transport their two children and their dog. 
 ''I love this car,'' Ms. Asmar said, ''I'm a Brownie leader. I can put all the girls, the dog and the groceries in it all at one time. 
 ''And in the snow I'm comfortable in it.''
 Suzy and Michael Aubrey of Rowayton are downsizing too, parting with their 2003 Suburban. 
 ''We feel gluttonous driving this big rig around that's contributing to air pollution when we should be conserving,'' said Mrs. Aubrey, a mother of three. 
 She said the car, which averages 14 miles a gallon, has been useful to cart around hockey equipment, camping gear, the dog and the children's friends. Still, she added, ''we always felt it was a little more than we needed.'' And the cost of filling the 30-gallon tank is eating into the family's weekly budget, she said. 
 Statewide, regular gasoline averaged an all-time high of $3.189 a gallon on Sept. 11, according to AAA. Although the average was $2.871 as of Wednesday, that was almost $1 more than a year ago. 
 Faced with a 20-mile increase in his daily commute, Greg Michaud of Clinton is selling his 2000 GMC Yukon.
 ''The difference isn't a huge amount, but it's not money you want to spend on gas,'' he said. What will he replace it with? ''Most likely something getting 25 miles per gallon as opposed to 15,'' he said.
 Still, dealers say, gas prices are not paramount in the minds of Connecticut customers.
 ''The vast majority of consumers buy cars for a host of reasons, and fuel economy is not at the top of the list,'' said Gary Reynolds, a Subaru dealer in Lyme and a board member of the National Automobile Dealers Association. ''But it is moving up. People who never looked at fuel economy before are probably doing so now.'' 
 At the upper end, sales of $60,000-plus S.U.V.'s are brisk, dealers said.
 ''Our Cadillac Escalade has not been affected at all,'' said Robert Oles, general sales manager at Stephen Auto Mall Centre in Bristol. When gas topped $3 a gallon, he said, ''we were concerned, but people are over the initial shock.'' 
 More impact has been felt at the middle range, Mr. Oles said. Sales of the GMC Yukon have been off about 30 percent the last two months, he said.
 When Terry Bock of Stamford decided to change cars, he sought one with better mileage than the family's Ford Explorer. The new car had to be roomy enough for the two Bock children and not need super-grade gasoline. His choice was an Audi A6, which he bought used because, ''I have to shift a lot of my car dollars into fuel now,'' he said.
 Drivers who are reconsidering their choice of an S.U.V. are finding they must make compromises. 
 The Aubreys, for example, have enjoyed the spaciousness of their Suburban. Sally, 8, said she loves having the third seat to herself and her dolls; Luke, 12, and Haley, 15, like stretching out in the middle seat. The four-seat Honda Element the family plans to buy is so much smaller that for vacations they will need two cars, and, Mrs. Aubrey said, losing family time together bothers her. 
 Trading in isn't financially appealing, either.
 ''The dealers are giving no money for these cars,'' Mrs. Aubrey said. 
 Owners trying to sell their S.U.V.'s privately are also finding it hard, in part because hefty dealer and manufacturer discounts make buying new cars attractive.
 ''Which would you rather buy: a shiny new Yukon for $39,000 or one that's a year old with 12,000 miles for $30,000?'' asked Mr. Oles, the Bristol car dealer. 
 Mr. Reynolds, the Lyme Subaru dealer, is also aware of this problem.
 ''People are trying to unload the larger, less-fuel-efficient S.U.V.'s produced in prior years, and the price has gone down maybe disproportionately,'' he said. Many discover they still owe more on their vehicle than they can get on a trade-in. ''Some just can't unload them,'' Mr. Reynolds said.
 For owners of multiple cars, the AAA recommends relegating gas guzzlers to secondary status, a move Debbie Ross of Rowayton made last year. 
 She now drives a Chevrolet Impala sedan, having handed her Mercury Mountaineer over to her husband to use as a station car and then to her son to use for school. 
 ''It was breaking the bank and that was a year ago,'' Mrs. Ross said. 
 ''The Impala gets 27 miles per gallon in town, the Mountaineer 15.'' 
 ''There's nothing sexy about the Impala, but it's a great car,'' she added. 
 Now her son, Guy, 17, drives the Mountaineer for a 14-mile trip each way to school. 
 ''He's complaining, 'I bought $10 worth of gas and the needle didn't move,''' Mrs. Ross said. If nothing else, ''It's giving him a good lesson in budgeting.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Aubreys in Rowayton plan to downsize from a 2003 Suburban to a Honda Element. That will shrink gas bills, and cargo space. (Photo by Janet Durrans for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); SUBURBS (76%); BUDGETS (68%); NEW CAR DEALERS (64%); AIR POLLUTION (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



169 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2447 words

HEADLINE: A Crucial Link in the Pipeline

BYLINE: By SUSAN WARNER

DATELINE: PAULSBORO 

 BODY:
STEAM spews from scrubbers and the cracking unit -- which breaks oil into gasoline at 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit -- that tower above the Valero Energy Corporation oil refinery here. Black railroad tankers ring the 950-acre plant that hugs a bend in the Delaware River south of Philadelphia and is crisscrossed by a web of pipelines that are, in turn, connected to huge white holding tanks.
 The refinery, which has expanded over the past few years, hums 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, churning out gasoline and heating oil as well as diesel and jet fuel for New Jersey and its neighboring states.
 ''My whole focus is to keep this plant running, to keep producing all we can produce every day,'' said Mike Pesch, vice president and general manager of the Valero refinery, which has been here since 1917 and was purchased from Mobil in 1998.
 Yet even with Valero running flat-out, rising crude oil prices -- combined with the one-two punch of major hurricanes in the oil-rich Gulf Coast -- sent gasoline prices soaring in New Jersey and raised concerns that the cost of heating oil and natural gas would leave a devastating chill across the state this winter. 
 ''I see some catastrophic problems coming up this fall and winter with people not being able to pay to get to work or heat their homes,'' said Assemblyman Joseph Malone, a Republican from Bordentown.
 New Jersey had long been insulated from the steepest increases in energy prices, largely because of its gritty yet indispensable role in the nation's petroleum infrastructure. Between the Valero refinery in South Jersey; the sprawling Bayway complex, a hulking, steam-belching facility along the Turnpike in Linden; and the Colonial Pipeline that originates on the Gulf Coast and ends at the Arthur Kill in Avenel, nearly a 10th of all of the gasoline consumed in the United States is estimated to pass through New Jersey, more than any other state except Texas. 
 Contributing to that essential role are the Amerada Hess refineries in Port Reading and those of Sun Oil, a few miles north of Valero at its Eagle Point plant in West Deptford. Still more petroleum arrives at New Jersey's ports from refineries around the world, including England, Eastern Europe, South America and the Middle East.
 And so while New Jersey does not pump one drop of crude oil, its refineries -- farther north on the East Coast than any others and supplying New York State and all of New England -- are a major player in the worldwide petroleum industry by virtue of its role in the processing, importation and distribution of it. 
 ''New Jersey has a rich petroleum infrastructure and it is a gateway to the rest of the country,'' said David Hinton, an analyst with the Energy Information Agency in Washington.

Usually, a Lower Price Per Gallon
 That rich infrastructure, along with gasoline taxes that are substantially lower than in most other states, has historically kept pump prices in New Jersey below those in the rest of the nation. But that was before the Gulf Coast was battered by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, after which gasoline prices rose higher in New Jersey than most other parts of the country, infuriating drivers, business owners and politicians.
 From Aug. 30 to Sept. 6, gasoline prices rose 44.7 cents a gallon on average throughout the United States. But in New Jersey, prices soared an average of 60 cents, behind only Maryland, Delaware and Pennsylvania, according to an analysis by the American Petroleum Institute.
 The stunning price increase brought howls of protest and a scramble to place blame. Consumers blamed retailers. Retailers blamed wholesalers. Wholesalers blamed speculators in the gasoline futures market. Big oil companies blamed increasing demand from China and India. And completing the circle were consumers driving S.U.V.'s and other gas-guzzling vehicles while commuting. 
 Yet fixing the blame is not so simple.
 ''It is a very hard industry to get a handle on,'' said Assemblyman Jeff Van Drew, a Democrat of Dennis Township. ''There is so much smoke and mirrors and magic. But it is obvious that some people are making huge amounts of money.''
 Currently, the price of gas in New Jersey is governed by a complex set of forces, including the expiration of an obscure environmental regulation and a spate of global mergers that have led three of the state's four refineries and hundreds of gas stations to change hands since 1998. 
 About a third of the gasoline consumed in the state is refined in New Jersey and another third flows up the Colonial Pipeline, which was disabled for several days after Hurricane Katrina and was largely responsible for the state's record price of $3.18 for a gallon of regular on Sept. 10.
 In all, New Jersey, which ranks 10th among the states in population, places 9th in total petroleum consumption, using 26 million gallons a day as of 2001, according to the most recent statistics gathered by the Energy Information Agency. As for gasoline consumption alone, New Jersey ranks 11th, using 10.8 million gallons a day. 
 And even though New Jersey has only one major airport, Newark Liberty International, it ranks fourth in consumption of jet fuel because its refineries also supply the two major airports in New York City and one in Philadelphia.
 How New Jersey came to take the abundance of cheap gasoline for granted is not complicated. A decade of record-low gas prices in the 1990's led to continued development of larger and larger homes on increasingly distant tracts of land, said Clinton J. Andrews, a professor at the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers. Indeed, survey statistics released by the Census Bureau in 2004 found that New Jersey residents have the third-longest commutes in the nation, 28.3 minutes each way on average. 
 ''Even though we have among the best public transit system in the 50 states, we still do an awful lot of driving,'' Professor Andrews said. ''Our land-use choices have continued with sprawl, and that demand is not going to go away.''
 And, he added: ''We're a rich state. We can afford to buy big S.U.V.'s, so we do.''

Market Shifts Have Impact Here
 Even before Hurricane Katrina crippled the Gulf Coast, gasoline prices in New Jersey had been steadily rising as the cost of crude oil soared to more than $60 a gallon from $40 a gallon in the spring of 2004. Contributing to the sharp rise was the war in Iraq and fears of further instability in the Middle East as well as a surge in demand in China and other emerging economies. Another factor is the uncertainty over a new world order in global petroleum markets as a 30-year period dominated by Saudi Arabia begins to fade, Professor Andrews said.
 The enormous shifts in the petroleum market could not help but reverberate in New Jersey. 
 Contributing to the rising prices in the summer and fall was a little-noticed shift in prices because of change in environmental regulations, said Tom Kloza, editorial director of the Oil Price Information Service in Wall. 
 New Jersey and other states in the region are phasing out gasoline that contains a substance known as MTBE, or methyl tertiary-butyl ether, an additive that had been required to make gasoline burn more efficiently but was found to contaminate drinking water supplies. And although no gas with MTBE will be sold in New Jersey by next spring, refineries have already begun cutting back on production, contributing to tight supplies and higher prices, Mr. Kloza said.
 He also pointed to another explanation, though perhaps less obvious, for the sharp rise in gas prices: Investors in hedge funds, who have seen low returns in the stock market, have become increasingly interested in betting on increases in the price of commodities, including oil, refined gasoline and natural gas.
 In the first eight months of this year, Mr. Kloza said, prices rose because of the tremendous flow of money into the petroleum futures market. Then, after the first hurricane, he said, prices moved up even more because of the tightened supply.
 Yet it is not only the sheer amount of gasoline sloshing through the state's refineries, pipelines and tank farms that determines the price at the pump. Futures contracts for delivery at ports including Perth Amboy, Woodbridge and Carteret are written on Wall Street for investors around the world, and those prices must be honored by wholesalers in Bayonne and Linden as well as other distribution centers in North Jersey.
 As Daniel Brusstar, director of energy research at the New York Mercantile Exchange, explained during a recent legislative hearing on gasoline pricing, ''New Jersey is the focal point for pricing for the entire world.'' 
 Closer to home, many of New Jersey's 3,601 service stations are at war with their suppliers.
 Craig Copeland, the owner of a Mobil station in Red Bank that is supplied by the Russian oil company Lukoil, is among five service station owners who have sued the petroleum company in federal District Court in Newark on the ground that it is basing its wholesale price on pump prices that are ''not commercially reasonable'' and ''in excess of the range of prices charged by other suppliers in the market.''
 For its part, Lukoil dismissed the suit as the action of only a few vendors. ''Regrettably, a small minority of dealers have channeled their reactions to volatile market conditions into unfounded allegations against our company,'' the company said in a statement. 
 The service station owners contend that their problems began when Mobil was forced to divest stations in the state as part of its merger with Exxon. In March 2000, Tosco took over Mobil's stations, but in May 2004 a new owner, ConocoPhillips, assigned the supply agreements for 349 stations around the state to Getty Petroleum Marketing Inc., a subsidiary of Lukoil.
 ''We're like the bastard orphan child of the petroleum world kicked around from foster home to foster home,'' Mr. Copeland said.
 He complained that Lukoil uses a system of ''street-based'' pricing to establish what it charges retailers. For example, he said that Lukoil might allow the retailer a profit margin of 12 cents a gallon. If the retailer raises the price at the pump beyond the 12-cent margin, Lukoil then raises its wholesale price by the same amount. 
 Ultimately, Lukoil dealers cannot compete with other stations and sales fall off, Mr. Copeland said, allowing competitors to raise their prices while remaining comfortably below the Lukoil retailer, driving up prices for consumers throughout the state.
 ''A guy who is charging 30 cents above the rest of the market is going to get crushed because the guy across the street sees it as his opportunity to raise his price 10 or 20 cents and still be a hero on the street,'' said Mr. Copeland. ''We used to among the lowest priced in the 48 states and that's only changed in the last four or five months. We think our supplier has had a lot to do with it. They have successfully raised the bar.''
 Beyond the charges and counter-charges, the recent mergers are another suspected cause of higher fuel prices, what critics call the equivalent of the breakup of John D. Rockefeller's Standard Oil trust in reverse. Indeed, in 1999 Exxon, successor to Standard Oil of New Jersey, merged with Mobil Oil, the descendant of Standard Oil of New York. In all, from 1981 to 2004, the number of refineries in the United States fell to 149 from 324, including many smaller, independent operations, according to the Energy Information Agency, although overall capacity increased because of upgrades to the existing refineries.
 Still, Tyson Slocum, research director of the energy program at Public Citizen, a consumer watchdog organization, said, ''The oil industry took aggressive steps to become profitable, and I think they did it at the expense of consumers.'' 
 As a result, Mr. Slocum said, the five largest petroleum companies control 48 percent of domestic crude production, 50 percent of domestic refining capacity and 62 percent of the retail gasoline market in the United States. 

Capacity and Efficiency
 John C. Ponticello, manager of the sprawling Bayway refinery in Linden, which is owned by ConocoPhillips, said the refineries that remain have added capacity and made their operations as efficient as possible, while continuing to invest in environmental clean-ups.
 But Mr. Ponticello, who began his career at Bayway 27 year ago and has also worked at refineries in Philadelphia and the Gulf, said New Jersey poses special challenges for the industry when trying to contain prices, and those include high utility and labor costs, and stringent environmental standards.
 ''At the same time, there are about 15 million people living within 35 miles of Bayway, which gives Bayway an advantage over some of our competitors,'' Mr. Ponticello told members of the General Assembly's Transportation Committee during a hearing on soaring gasoline prices.
 Assemblyman John Burzichelli, a Democrat of Gloucester, was prompted to ask the manager of the refinery that has inspired decades of New Jersey put-downs: ''Did you ever think you would live to see the day when refineries were appreciated again?''
 ''I've been waiting 27 years for this day,'' Mr. Ponticello responded.
 Legislators have begun to discuss some solutions, including a cap on wholesale gasoline prices modeled on a law recently adopted in Hawaii. But they have not touched New Jersey's gasoline tax, currently 14.5 cents a gallon and the third-lowest in the nation. Passage of a gas-tax increase had been expected during a lame-duck session of the Legislature after the Nov. 8 elections as a way to bolster the state's Transportation Trust Fund, but the sharp price increases have made that seem politically unfeasible.
 For now, Mr. Kloza of the Oil Price Information Service prefers see the tank as half full. He says the state is returning to its historic cost advantage as boatloads of imports, sent to the United States after Hurricane Katrina, are beginning to arrive at New Jersey's ports. By last week, the average price for a gallon of regular gasoline in New Jersey was $2.83, according to Automobile Club of New Jersey, compared with $2.94 nationwide.
 Yet Mr. Hinton of the Energy Information Agency says that may be little comfort to consumers facing natural-gas prices that are expected to rise more than 50 percent this winter. With 67 percent of all the homes in New Jersey heated with natural gas, rising prices could provide for the next wave of finger pointing.
 ''Everybody is talking about gasoline right now,'' Mr. Hinton said. ''But what's going on in natural gas could be just as big, if not bigger.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: In Paulsboro, refineries that run 24 hours a day dominate the landscape on the Delaware River with their pipelines, holding tanks and smokestacks. (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
About a third of the gasoline consumed in the state is refined in New Jersey, which, along with low gasoline taxes, has historically kept prices lower than the rest of the country. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times)
Mike Pesch, left, general manager of Valero in Paulsboro, says his focus is to produce ''all we can produce every day.'' Craig Copeland, owner of a Red Bank Mobil station supplied by the Russian company Lukoil, is one of five service stations owners who have sued the petroleum company for setting wholesale prices too high. (Photo by Jack Howard for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); HEATING OIL (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); MARINE TANKERS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (88%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); JET FUEL (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); DIESEL FUEL (73%); WEATHER (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (63%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Refineries; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: VALERO ENERGY CORP (96%); HESS CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%) American Petroleum Institute

TICKER: VLO (NYSE) (96%); HES (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (96%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (96%)

PERSON: Susan Warner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (59%); ENGLAND (51%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



170 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; JERSEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: The Battle Of Botaxes Is On

BYLINE: By Paula Span. 
PaulaSpan@nytimes.com

DATELINE: LITTLE SILVER 

 BODY:
PRACTICALLY the first thing patients see when they check in is a bold yellow notice on the receptionist's desk: ''Did You Know New Jersey is Imposing a 6 Percent Tax on All Cosmetic Surgery?'' The second thing, preprinted postcards they can send to Trenton, protesting that the tax is ''blatantly unfair and discriminatory.'' The Battle of Botaxes is on.
 Those of us trying to make peace with what our genes and decades have bequeathed us -- thus not enlisting for Botox injections, buttock lifts or hair transplants -- probably haven't noticed the skirmish. But plastic surgeons like Dr. Peter Hetzler, leading the revolt from this office, have fought the tax since it took effect a year ago. And it looks like the coalition he heads is winning. 
How often do you feel like applauding the State Legislature? But this was a surprisingly innovative idea. Consider: A cash-strapped state and 1.3 million residents without health insurance, their hospital costs reimbursed by aforementioned state. At the same time, hordes of people willing and able to come up with substantial sums to buy firmer bodies, more symmetrical faces. 
 Abdominoplasty (also known as a ''tummy tuck'') runs at least $9,000 and a face lift up to $20,000. There's a $5,000 to $10,000 price tag for larger, perkier breasts. Add up to $3,000 for anesthesia and facility fees. Ours is the first and so far only state to charge sales tax on what such patients pay (and they do pay; insurers won't cover elective procedures) to subsidize care for the poor. Robin Hood would be proud.
 But doctors argue that Botaxes, as some wit dubbed them, discriminate against women, the majority of their patients. (By which logic, the sales tax on lipstick should be lifted, too.) They complain about cumbersome paperwork; they worry that consumers will head for Pennsylvania or New York. Medically necessary reconstructive surgery remains exempt, but ''we really don't want to open the door to taxing any medical procedure,'' Dr. Hetzler explained to me.
 The reason doctors are persuading legislators, though, has more to do with financial disappointment. State forecasters predicted that Botaxes would raise $24 million a year. Instead, first-year revenue amounted to just $7.5 million. Now even Assemblyman Joseph Cryan, who introduced the legislation, says he's inclined toward repeal because ''economically, it hasn't made sense.''
 Say it ain't so, Joe. 
 Cosmetic surgery is one of those technologies that, as it gains popularity -- and there were 9.2 million such procedures in the United States last year -- exacts a subtle tax from every schlump who avoids it. The more 40-year-olds elect to eradicate their jowls, the frumpier every 40-year-old with jowls looks and feels. The more Chiclet-bright smiles become the norm, the more young girls will beg dentists to bleach their teeth.
 Botaxes may have the salutary side effect of slowing this relentless perfectionism. ''It's what you learn on day one of Basic Economics,'' says Sara Markowitz, a Rutgers economist. ''When you raise the price, people will consume less of the good.'' I could live with that.
 The day I visited Dr. Hetzler's office, a local businesswoman named Penny -- energetic and attractive at 56 -- had a consultation. ''I'm here to have my flaps done,'' she said, meaning an operation to tighten her upper arms.
 Dr. Hetzler explained at length about the surgery and recovery. ''If you're wearing a sleeveless dress, you'll be able to see the scar,'' he cautioned.
 Penny wasn't dissuaded by scars or taxes. ''Sooner is better,'' she said. After considerable weight loss, she'd already had liposuction, then abdominal reduction, and cherished ''the wonderful way it makes you feel about yourself.''
 Who am I to say she's wrong? But after writing checks for $8,500 or more for trimmer triceps, kicking in a few hundred additional bucks for those who can't afford heart bypasses seems reasonable. 
 So Mr. Cryan, a modest proposal: Let's expand, not repeal. I suggest a Tanning Tax on patrons of those carcinogenic salons. And, in a blow for gender equality, a Toupee Tax. And perhaps a surcharge, the Just Plain Pathetic Tax, on red sports cars for buyers over 45.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Nancy Doniger)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); SALES TAX (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); HOSPITALS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); INSURANCE (72%); NONSURGICAL COSMETIC PROCEDURES (72%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (72%); GENDER EQUALITY (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (64%); LEGISLATION (62%) Taxation; Plastic Surgery ; Sales Tax

PERSON: Paula Span; peter (dr) hetzler

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



171 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: The Winner on Gasoline Alley

BYLINE: By DAVE CALDWELL

DATELINE: FORT LEE 

 BODY:
IF THERE is such a thing as a good place to run out of gasoline, the easternmost three miles of Route 46 in New Jersey would probably be it. Thirteen gas stations line this grimy stretch of four-lane divided highway just before the George Washington Bridge.
 Even during these days of wildly climbing prices, most of those 13 stations have sold a gallon of unleaded for about the same price and appear to do about the same amount of business -- except for a tidy Gulf station tucked away off the westbound lanes.
There always seem to be long lines of cars waiting for a refill at the four pumps in front of that station, Best Auto Repair, whose price for a gallon is usually seven to eight cents less than the other three stations along the westbound lanes in that three-mile stretch. 
 At noon on a recent sparkling Saturday, 10 drivers waited to refuel at Best Auto Repair, where a gallon of unleaded was priced at $2.779. There were no lines at the BP station next door, with a gallon at $2.859, or at the stations right across the highway.
 Jockeying for pump position at Best can sometimes turn into a competition. Best was the first station on this stretch during the recent run-up to drop its unleaded price below $3, and several fender-benders resulted in the lanes to the pumps.
 ''This is actually kind of slow today,'' said Sun Lee, 21, whose father, Yong Lee, franchises the gas station from Cumberland Farms.
 Forfeiting a higher profit margin in exchange for volume, Best is open 24 hours a day and sells from 350,000 to 400,000 gallons a month, making the station, the Lees said, among the top five Gulf stations on the East Coast.
 By whatever measure, the station, among the first awaiting customers leaving New York, is constantly busy. A Gulf tanker truck often stops by three times a day to refill the station's four 10,000-gallon underground tanks.
 ''They like the prices -- no, they love the prices,'' Rogelio Valencia, a Cliffside Park resident who has pumped gas at Best for two years, said of the customers.
 But the cut-rate price shown in big blue numerals in front of the station is only one of many reasons Best seems a little different from the other gas stations here. The Lees like to think they run an honest-to-goodness old-time service station.
 ''I am enjoying this job,'' Yong Lee said with a smile in broken English. ''It's my life. It is my hope.'' 
 When the lines are not too long, Best employees offer to wash windshields and check oil levels. Flowers have been placed in planters. Nineteen American flags trim the roofline. The station is well lighted. The restroom is clean. A mechanic is often on duty.
 Two signs are out front in Korean; one reads, ''Best,'' the other ''Best Auto Repair.'' The Lee family, which moved to the United States from South Korea, likes to think of the station as a place where Koreans in North Jersey can feel comfortable.
 But Koreans make up only a small percentage of the legion of repeat customers. Cliff Molder, 83, an Englewood Cliffs resident, sat in his white Oldsmobile the other day, a hundred-dollar bill in his hand, waiting for a refill. It was not his first time here.
 ''I was in the service station business for 30 years, and this is a top gas station,'' Mr. Molder said. ''I had a Mobil station. Gulf gas works good in your car, too. He runs a good business here. The prices are fair.
 ''I used to go to the Hess station across the street,'' Mr. Molder said, nodding at the station across the highway. ''I'm cheap. I tell everybody that. But look at the prices, $2.85 there, $2.77 here. It's a good business here.''
 Yong Lee, 52, has been in the gas business for only two and a half years. He moved to the United States in 1989 with his wife, Sun Ae Lee, and their only child, Sun, to make a better life. 
 While Sun Ae Lee opened a nail salon in nearby Union City, Yong Lee worked in the wholesale delivery business. A family friend ran a gas station, and Yong Lee jumped at the chance to buy the Gulf station and go into business for himself.
 Mr. Lee, who first settled in Jersey City but now lives in Ridgefield, works 14-hour days. Most of them are spent in front of the two computer screens in his office. Oil industry and public policy analysts say New Jersey is the only state to have a law in which gas prices cannot be increased more than once in a 24-hour period. The state's attorney general cited 20 gas stations for violating the law last month.
 ''Everybody is very sensitive about price,'' Mr. Lee said.
 Much of his time is spent figuring out a daily price that will keep customers coming back. Mr. Lee monitors oil prices and the prices at other stations in the area. He often looks at GasBuddy.com, a Web site in which motorists share prices.
 Mr. Lee would generally like to make 7 to 8 cents a gallon, although his son said that Best dropped its profit margin to 5 cents in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, when they, like many other gas stations, lost 30 to 40 percent of their business.
 ''The competition is ridiculous,'' his son said. ''The fact that the customer can't understand what's going on hurts. They felt like we were trying to make a profit at the worst time.''
 The Lees said they were still selling gas as cheaply as they could. It is all about volume. This is Yong Lee's first business. He said he would like to stay in it for 10 years, then help his friends and relatives establish their own businesses.
 His son has enrolled at Rutgers, where he is majoring in environmental business economics. He works at the station for his father on weekends, mostly at the pumps, where business is so brisk at times there is little time to eat lunch.
 ''Sometimes, he comes home just to go to sleep,'' Sun Lee said of his father. ''That makes me want to finish school.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Lower prices can produce lines at Best Auto Repair. Signs with the station's name are posted in English and Korean.
 ''I am enjoying this job,'' says Yong Lee, a South Korean who moved to the United States in 1989 and now runs Best Auto Repair on Route 46 in Fort Lee. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAS STATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS (73%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (68%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Garages and Service Stations

ORGANIZATION: best auto repair (fort lee, nj)

PERSON: yong lee; Dave Caldwell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (74%) Fort Lee (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



172 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 4; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1544 words

HEADLINE: A Mixed Message 

BYLINE: By PATRICK O'GILFOIL HEALY

 BODY:
HAS it finally arrived, the end of Manhattan's real estate orgy, the autumn of our discontent? After four years of record-breaking prices and consistent growth, brokers and sellers are examining the latest sales data and wondering whether they indicate a stall, a pause or an insignificant blip.
 So it's time to shake the Magic 8 Ball and ask: Is the party over?
Some signs point to yes. New market data show that the number of sales in the third quarter dropped 17.8 percent compared with the same quarter a year ago. Average prices fell some 12 percent, or about $160,000 per apartment, from July to the end of September while median prices dipped only 3 percent, or $25,000. Apartments are spending longer on the market, and inventory is building up. Sellers are cutting prices. 
 ''There is a standstill situation,'' said Jacky Teplitzky, a broker with Prudential Douglas Elliman. ''We all thought September was going to be a strong month, but that did not happen. The phones did not ring. Turnout at the open houses was low, lower than we had expected.''
 Are these just the summer doldrums, the slow exhale after a barn-burning spring? It's difficult to say. In the last 10 years, third-quarter posted gains over the second quarter five times; the other five, they showed a slump, according to data from Miller Samuel, an appraisal firm.
 Still, any dark signs may be false harbingers. If the Manhattan market is pyramid-shaped, with a few $10 million and $20 million properties at its apex, the broad base of cheaper studios and one-bedrooms seems to be as strong as ever. Average sale prices for large apartments -- four bedrooms or more -- plunged some $2 million over the last three months. Luxury inventory built up and top-shelf apartment sales, whose stratospheric prices can skew averages, dropped off sharply.
 Data from Brown Harris Stevens show the number of new listings this September was 60 percent higher than a year ago.
 Still, prices for studios and one-bedrooms leapt by 10 percent. Brokers say there has never been a stronger demand for studios.
 And over all, home prices in the city are still up 10 to 12 percent over last October.
 The Corcoran Group said that this August was its busiest ever, and brokers are expecting robust Wall Street bonuses to buoy the high end of the market. Lisa Maysonet, an Elliman broker, said she sold three-fourths of a loft conversion in Bushwick, Brooklyn, in a single weekend. Many brokers are still moving properties and insist the Manhattan market remains fundamentally strong.
 Caught in the middle of these currents are the brokers who tend empty open houses like farmers waiting for rain, the cautious buyers wary of entering a peak market and sellers who cannot fathom why no one wants to buy their once-coveted homes.
 Take the case of Randall Trombley, a portfolio manager at Bear Stearns, and his floating one-bedroom at 100 United Nations Plaza, overlooking the spires of Midtown. Mr. Trombley had lived in the 1,242-square-foot condo since April 2001 and wanted a larger apartment with another bedroom, so he listed his home for $1.33 million in August and waited for the offers to roll in.
 In the first week, buyers dangled offers of $1.2 million and $1.15 million, but never made formal bids. Others said he should lower the price by 10 percent, or praised the apartment and left without making an offer. Two weeks ago, Mr. Trombley sliced his price by $86,000, and said he may cut it further still.
 ''I'm beside myself,'' he said. ''I feel like I'm caught in the crossfire here. I have a high-floor apartment priced right around what the average has been, and we're not even getting into a negotiating stance. It's crazy. It's like, what are they waiting for?''
 They are waiting for prices to drop, said Pamela Liebman, the chief executive of the Corcoran Group. The last four years were a sellers' bacchanalia, with average prices rising 70 percent, to a peak of $1.317 million in July from $778,575 in 2001. Even as the market has tempered, sellers still expect prices of $2,000 per square foot.
 ''When you see things that have stalled, it's because of price,'' Ms. Liebman said. ''The million-dollar one-bedroom is not a fact of life. It exists, but it exists in special buildings with something that is beyond the ordinary.'' 
 A Douglas Elliman market report released last week showed that prices are starting to recede as units sit longer and longer on the market. The median apartment price citywide dipped to $750,000 from $775,000 over the last three months while the mean price -- a simple average -- fell to $1.1 million from $1.3 million.
 The bigger the apartment, the worse it fared. Two-bedrooms fell by 3 percent, three-bedrooms by 9 percent and apartments larger than that took a 35 percent price hit, according to the Elliman report.
 Jonathan J. Miller, whose appraisal firm, Miller Samuel, conducted the study, said the slow rise in mortgage rates, coupled with anxiety about gasoline prices and bubble warnings from the Federal Reserve, had compelled buyers to lock in at the low end of the market but kept richer buyers away from the high end.
 The Duke-Semans mansion, a $50 million town house on Fifth Avenue, is still on the market. A $70 million penthouse at the Pierre Hotel remains up for grabs. In the second quarter, 17 homes sold for $10 million or more; last quarter there were four such sales. ''Our interpretation was there was a pause or a pullback,'' Mr. Miller said. ''It just seems like all these external factors made everybody take a breath. We're not used to that. If we see another drop for the next couple of quarters, you may see something more negative.''
 The season's new buzzword is negotiability. The gap between what sellers ask for their apartments and what they will accept is slowly widening, said Ronald Tardanico, the sales manager for Bellmarc Realty's East Side office. In February, an average apartment in the listings represented by Mr. Tardanico's office sold for 1.68 percent higher than the asking price. Last month the average was 2.68 percent below asking price.
 Mr. Tardanico said sellers were still overestimating the worth of their apartments, such as a couple asking $100,000 more than the market would bear for a one-bedroom in NoLIta. ''Nobody's looking at it, and nobody will look at it,'' Mr. Tardanico said. ''A lot of sellers are inclined to try it at an overly optimistic number, and if they're not getting the money, they come back a bit.''
 Carmen J. Cook, a vice president at Halstead Property, said she is aiming to ignite interest in a two-bedroom in the West 50's by slashing the price from $975,000 to $899,000 -- about 8 percent. Forty blocks north, another Halstead broker, Brian Lewis, is trimming $20,000 off a $559,000 one-bedroom to sell it quickly.
 ''I'm not a pessimist,'' Mr. Lewis said. ''I just feel that the buyers that are out there from last spring are bruised. They're circling the pool and just putting their toe in.''
 The longer an apartment sits on the market, the more negotiable it becomes. Apartments now spend 133 days on the market, a month longer than they did three months or a year ago. 
 Janice Silver, a vice president at Bellmarc, said she persuaded the sellers of a two-bedroom on Madison Avenue in the East 60's to drop their asking price by $150,000 after the apartment lingered for five months with no takers.
 For brokers, the long marketing times mean they must pay more for advertising and spend more weekends at open houses and showings. Some firms are coping with the new market with seminars on how to bargain and how to sell during a slump. 
 ''Last spring it was a whirlwind,'' Ms. Silver said. ''No matter what youput on the market, it sold in a second, and you didn't even have to think. You don't see that now.''
 Except if you're trying to sell a studio or one-bedroom. The Elliman report showed studios rising an average of 13 percent this quarter and one-bedrooms by 10 percent. Combined, these sales represent 55 percent of all apartments sold in Manhattan.
 ''The demand is there, and the supply isn't going up,'' said Gregory J. Heym, an economist with Brown Harris Stevens. ''It's just been solid growth.''
 As larger apartments float out of range, average buyers naturally turn to smaller, cheaper apartments. And as that demand grows, square-foot prices for studios have risen while the higher square-foot prices for larger units decline. Brokers said that studios are also being gobbled up as homeowners combine apartments within buildings.
 Mr. Heym's numbers showed that, for the first time, studios and one-bedrooms sold for the same price per square foot, $879. The gap between two-bedrooms and studios shrunk by $17 per square foot over the past year.
 ''These new buildings, they're not building studios,'' said Richard Hamilton, a Halstead broker who specializes in Chelsea studios. ''They're ignoring a market.''
 What's likely to happen next? With the city forecasting Wall Street profits at $14.4 billion, some say big bonuses will keep the market strong. Others say new inventory will drive down prices, spur buyer interest and rekindle sales numbers.
 Others say it's simply all about value, and when the price is right, things will move.


GRAPHIC: Photos: NO TAKERS -- Jacky Teplitzky of Douglas Elliman with Randall Trombley, the owner of an apartment that seems to be priced fairly but nevertheless has not sold. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)
NO HUGE CROWDS -- Deanna Kory of the Corcoran Group held an open house recently at 105 East 16th Street. The intense crowds of the spring have given way to a more normal market, she said. Above, Brian Lewis of Halstead at 320 West 90th Street. (Photos by above, Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times
above right, Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. 1)
LOOKING -- Some apartments are selling quickly while others are sitting. Above, Peter Fressola of Bellmarc talks with some shoppers who attended an open house he held recently at 56 West 82nd Street. Left, Brian Lewis shows off some details in an apartment at 320 West 90th Street to Fred Holland and Elif Bali. (Photos by above, Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times
below, James Estrin/The New York Times)
 NEGOTIABILITY -- Ronald Tardanico, the sales manager for Bellmarc Realty's East Side office, said many sellers are still pricing their apartments too high. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (56%); BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



173 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 5; Real Estate Desk; YOUR HOME; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Pluses and Minuses Of Option ARM's

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
A MORTGAGE known as an option ARM has become increasingly popular with borrowers. In fact, financial analysts say, this adjustable-rate mortgage may appear so attractive that borrowers may not fully understand its risks. 
 ''Option ARM's are basically a mishmash of existing products,'' said Keith T. Gumbinger, vice president of HSH Associates, a financial publisher in Pompton Plains, N.J.
 With the loans, Mr. Gumbinger said, the interest rate adjusts up or down in tandem with a financial index like the London Interbank Offered Rate, or Libor. And while rates on traditional ARM's change after a predetermined number of years, with most option ARM's the interest rate is readjusted monthly. 
 Option ARM's also allow a number of monthly payment options -- and the borrower can change the option each month. For example, Mr. Gumbinger said, the payment can be based on a fully amortizing 15- or 30-year mortgage. With those, the monthly payment includes principal and interest sufficient to pay off the loan over the specified term. 
 Another possibility, Mr. Gumbinger said, is for the borrower to make an interest-only payment. While that ensures that interest on the mortgage is paid as it accrues, it does not reduce the principal. After five years, the loan is recast and the payment recalculated to include payments against principal sufficient to ensure that the loan is fully satisfied by the end of the term. 
 The fourth and riskiest option allows the borrower to make a set minimum monthly payment based on an artificially low interest rate. For example, he said, the minimum payment may be based on an interest rate of only 1.25 percent, even though the actual interest rate is 5.5 percent. That, however, typically results in negative amortization, which means that any interest not covered by the monthly payment is added to the outstanding balance. 
 ''You end up paying more interest in the long run because you're paying interest on the interest you should have been paying all along,'' he said. He added that while option ARM's have a lifetime interest rate cap -- generally 5 or 6 percentage points above the initial rate -- there is no annual cap (other than the lifetime cap) on the interest-rate increases. ''So if interest rates rise quickly, things can get really ugly,'' he said.
 That is because a typical option ARM limits the amount the minimum monthly payment can increase from one year to the next -- usually by 7.5 percent. While that may keep the minimum payment relatively low, an increase in the actual interest rate will widen the difference between the minimum payment and the actual amount that should be paid, increasing the negative amortization. 
 In addition, said Sara Gaugl, a spokeswoman for Washington Mutual, a lender in Seattle, the minimum payment can increase beyond the 7.5 percent annual cap when the loan is recast every five years, or any time the outstanding balance exceeds the property value by 125 percent (or, under state law, by 110 percent in New York).
 Tim Malburg, president of Capstone Mortgage in Wilton, Conn., said option ARM's may make sense for some borrowers. ''The main advantage is payment flexibility,'' he said, noting that since borrowers can make any one of the allowable monthly payments each month, such a loan can benefit those whose income varies monthly. 
 But, Mr. Malburg said, another downside of such a mortgage is the potential for significant negative amortization, which could result, especially if the housing market falters, in the amount owed being more than the market value of the house. That means that if the borrower had to sell the house, he or she could not pay off the mortgage with the proceeds.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (76%); INTERBANK LENDING (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (50%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



174 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: HUNTS POINT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: With a No-Show Fish Market, Bronx Merchants Grow Grim 

BYLINE: By ALEX MINDLIN

 BODY:
When the news broke that the Fulton Fish Market was moving to Hunts Point, Vicky Ambeliotis saw her chance. ''I was doing waitress for 25 years,'' said Ms. Ambeliotis, a 42-year-old immigrant from Greece with friendly blue eyes and a blond ponytail. ''We decided to open something of our own.'' 
 Ms. Ambeliotis left her Morris Park waitressing job, and her husband, Steve, put aside his construction company. In May 2004, six months before the market's scheduled November opening, the couple built Oasis, a trim little coffee shop in a corner spot on one of the market's principal arteries, and waited for the business to roll in.
A year and a half later, they are still waiting. On a recent visit during what should have been the lunchtime rush, a single customer sat on a bar stool, and the Ambeliotises had all too much time to talk. ''We're having some tough times here, waiting,'' Ms. Ambeliotis said. 
 Since last November, the move has been postponed and rescheduled half a dozen times, often just days before the planned relocation. The two most recent delays came on Sept. 19 and last Wednesday, and both involved a continuing lawsuit over who should be unloading the fish at the new market. 
 ''I hired another girl here when they said they were going to open two weeks ago,'' Ms. Ambeliotis said Thursday. But when word of the Sept. 19 delay came, ''I had to let her go, because I couldn't afford the extra pay.''
 Like Ms. Ambeliotis, merchants across Hunts Point have been preparing energetically for the arrival of the market, only to be disappointed time and again. ''I've hired more help three times, and then had to get rid of them,'' said Joe Fratelli, the stubbly, genial owner of Fratelli's, a popular Hunts Point pizzeria. ''I take their names, tell them to come in next week when the fish market opens, and then they walk in next week and it's not open.''
 Local workers have been salivating over the arrival of the new jobs, and the reason is not hard to find. The 2000 Census estimates the Hunts Point unemployment rate at 24 percent -- the city's highest, according to a speech by Mayor Bloomberg in March. Jeremie Sautter, director of Hunts Point Works, said that of the 900 people who had come to his city-financed job placement agency since April, roughly 20 percent had been looking for fish market jobs. 
 The walk-ins at Hunts Point Works may find other jobs, but the Ambeliotises are stuck with Oasis. Ms. Ambeliotis frantically scans the news each day, hoping for word of an impending move.
 ''I'm every day with the paper,'' she said. ''I'm checking Bronx News, Channel 1, everything.'' As for her husband, he estimates that the coffee shop is making just over half the money it needs to survive. How much longer can he stay open? ''Maybe less than a month,'' he said. ALEX MINDLIN


GRAPHIC: Photo: Whither the fish? Steve Ambeliotis, above, and other Hunts Point business owners wonder. (Photo by Susan Farley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISH & SEAFOOD STORES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); RELOCATIONS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); CLOSINGS (76%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); CENSUS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



175 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2532 words

HEADLINE: Nickels and Dimes

BYLINE: By ED MORALES. 
Ed Morales is the author of ''Living in Spanglish: The Search for Latino Identity in America.''

 BODY:
NILDA LOUISA, a 54-year-old Puerto Rican native with a perpetual smile that masks her melancholy eyes, lives with her five children, age 11 to 17, in a green and red two-family house in Clason Point, a little neighborhood in the Bronx that juts into the East River like a crooked finger.
 The family moved there two years ago after four months in a homeless shelter in the South Bronx, and although the six of them share a somewhat shabby three-bedroom apartment on the second floor of this private house, the neighborhood's relatively bucolic character has given them a sense of a fresh start.
''My daughter Evalise says, 'Mom, you know we've got a pear tree on the block?''' Ms. Louisa said the other day as she strode past the dense foliage of Pugsley Creek Park. ''The man who owns it told us he's going to give my kids some. We'll see how good they taste.'' 
 Statistics released six weeks ago by the Census Bureau showed that the Bronx, with nearly one-third of its 1.3 million residents living below the poverty line, ranked as the nation's poorest urban county. 
 A family of four is considered poor if its annual income is under $19,307; for a family of six, like Ms. Louisa's, the figure is $24,768. And many economists say the government's statistics undercount poverty in major cities like New York because the numbers are not adjusted for the cost of living. 
 Ms. Louisa's situation could be worse. The family lives in a private home rather than in public housing, and she has a job, working part time as a recruiter for an after-school tutoring program, which pays $10,400 a year. But that is her only income outside a city rent subsidy, a monthly welfare check of $140, and $433 a month in food stamps.
 Much has been said in recent years about the so-called rebirth of the Bronx, and in fact, sweeping changes have transformed many parts of the borough, particularly the long-blighted South Bronx. Perhaps most significant, unemployment has dropped in the past two years to 6.7 percent from 10.6 percent.
 But the life of the Louisa family shows that despite the well-publicized garden apartments, antiques districts and artists' lofts, poverty is still very much a fact of life for a huge number of the borough's families.
 Here is a day in the life.

Morning
 At 6 on this sultry September morning, Ms. Louisa woke up, showered, put up a pot of coffee and toasted two pieces of white bread, the kind that goes for 99 cents a loaf on special. ''It's an hour just for me,'' she said, ignoring the fact that she was already at work ironing the white shirts and black pants the children wear as school uniforms.
 By 7:15, she had awakened her brood and was making salami sandwiches for Joseph, 15, and Evalise, 14. The lunches were for a special occasion, a class trip to a local Y.
 By 8 a.m., Ms. Louisa was exhorting her children in a stern yet loving manner that by now has become a comforting ritual. ''We've got to go to school, we've got to go to school,'' she intoned. Marylynne, at 17 the eldest, left first, for G.E.D. classes at Friends of Island Academy; the academy is a kind of prep school for youthful offenders like Marylynne, who is on probation in connection with charges springing from a street robbery. The other children clambered down the stairs with their mother. 
 A few blocks from the apartment, Ms. Louisa pointed to a cluster of modest beige and brown town houses. Because a new owner has bought the house where she lives and wants Ms. Louisa out by the end of this month, she has been looking for a new place. But the search is arduous; the city housing program that subsidizes her $1,300-a-month rent won't contribute more than the $1,178 it does now. 
 ''I have no money for these kids,'' she said, with the exasperated frankness that seemed to define motherhood. ''Sure, I have this little job, a chance for me to feel good about myself. But what's going to happen October 31st? Do they wind up in a shelter again?''
 Intermediate School 174, which four of her children attend and where Ms. Louisa works as a volunteer, is around the corner from the Kips Bay Boys and Girls Club, where Jennifer Lopez learned to sing and dance in the 1980's. After depositing her children, Ms. Louisa met up with Lisa Liverpool, president of the school's parent-teacher association, and the two women walked the five blocks to Intermediate School 131 to report for work as recruiters for TestQuest, a tutoring program. ''We're a team,'' Ms. Louisa said. ''I take the Spanish-speaking people aside, and when I'm done with my pitch, I send them to her to get the application.''
 Ms. Liverpool has been working with Ms. Louisa for only a few weeks, but she has already grown deeply attached to her. She is still miffed that Ms. Louisa passed up attending the graduation ceremony at the Global Business Institute, where she recently completed a computer course, because she couldn't afford the $25 for a cap and gown. 
 ''I wish she'd told me,'' Ms. Liverpool said. ''It hurts when I know she's struggling. I tell her, don't let the kids know, but the kids see it. People assume, just because the kids are dressed nice, that she's O.K. But she's not.''
 When the two women arrived at I.S. 131, their supervisor, Ideliza Duarte, whisked them to Middle School 80 in the West Bronx, where she was short on Spanish-speaking recruiters. As a sparse crowd listened to Ms. Duarte's presentation, Ms. Louisa explained why she liked this sort of work. 
 ''I was a founder of the Parent Action Committee at the New Settlement Apartments, where I used to live,'' she said. ''I don't have a college degree, I have a mother degree. My education is the kids.
 ''It's nice to help people, to talk to people, to be friendly with people. Because even though I'm poor, with my dungarees and my sneakers and my five kids, I deserve the same respect.''

Afternoon
 Around noon, Ms. Louisa returned to I.S. 174 to spend time volunteering before she returned to her official job. When she walked in, she heard some unfortunate news from David Kilgannon, the special ed teacher for her 13-year-old son, Michael. ''I had to give him detention this afternoon,'' he said. ''He just gets caught up with other kids. One kid will go off, and the other kids think they have permission to carry on. What's frustrating is he sees beyond the surface -- he has so much depth.''
 Ms. Louisa was unfazed, confident that Michael would eventually work things out on his own, and eagerly dug into a lunch of three pieces of fried chicken and soda, the $3.95 special at Mama's Fried Chicken, the fast-food place across the street. ''If I could,'' she said, ''I'd get our computer fixed so my kids could do their homework. I went to Fordham Road, and they told me it would run around $90.'' Evalise and Joseph are graduating from intermediate school this year, and they need $60 each for the senior trip, $19 for senior pictures and $35 for senior rings.
 ''I can't remember the last time we've been out to dinner as a family,'' Ms. Louisa said. ''And I haven't been to the beauty parlor for the longest time.
 ''When I was young,'' she continued, her mind drifting back to her early years in New York, ''I worked at Lord & Taylor as a stock girl. I used to like that because I could never afford those things. Those gloves they had, $60, $100, $300. I find that so exciting. To see how the other half lives, O.K.?'' 
 Down the hallway, Ms. Louisa ran into Diana Owens, the school's parent coordinator and someone she seems to love as much as she loves her children. Ms. Owens helped her get the job at TestQuest, takes her shopping for clothes and, in a monthly ritual, helps her work out a budget for her family's food expenses. ''When I get my food stamps at the beginning of the month,'' Ms. Louisa said, ''she tries to budget them enough so that by the 20th we'll still have money for food left.''
 Typically, Ms. Louisa buys a family pack of beef for $35, which will be used to make six dinners, along with two bags of chicken legs for $11 each, yielding eight meals, and a five-pound bag of ground meat for $11, good for three meals. A 20-pound bag of rice goes for $3.98, beans are 57 cents a 15-ounce can, and to wash it down, Ms. Louisa stocks her fridge with soda, at $1 for a two-liter container, and powdered iced tea, at $4.98 for a can that makes 20 quarts.
 Once a month, Ms. Owens picks up Ms. Louisa and the two of them take a drive along Bruckner Boulevard, just the two of them, no children. Ms. Owens thinks it's the least she can do in return for Ms. Louisa's volunteer work.
 ''Whenever I find myself in a difficult situation -- I have one kid, and sometimes it's too much for me -- I think of her,'' Ms. Owens said. ''She's such an inspiration, with what she faces, and she'll come here chugging along like the little train that could, always smiling.
 She added: ''She'll do what most parents won't do, like volunteer in the cafeteria for three periods. It's loud, crazy and hot, and she does it every single day.''
 After lunch, Ms. Louisa headed to the post office to see if a $40 check from her mother, who has moved back to Puerto Rico, had arrived. She hoped to use the money for Joseph's and Evalise's graduation dues or just to buy more food. The postal worker explained that the priority mail was out with the driver, and told Ms. Louisa to come back the next day. 
 Around 2, Ms. Louisa headed back to I.S. 131 for more outdoor recruiting with Ms. Liverpool. Several parents stopped and listened as she made her pitch in English, Spanish and Spanglish. When one woman asked to apply, Ms. Louisa was clearly elated; for each person who signs up, she gets a $5 bonus. 
 On the way home from work, she passed the Church of God, the Pentecostal church on Lacombe Avenue that she attends every Sunday and some weekday afternoons. ''I get a lot from the faith I have in God,'' she said. ''When I'm not volunteering, my free time is 11:30 to 2, so I go to church.
 ''Sometimes I have no money for the kids, and all of a sudden somebody calls me up and says, 'I have $20 for you.''' Ms. Louisa was referring to Andrea Case, the parent organizer supervisor from New Settlement Apartments. ''She bought the kids school supplies this year -- notebooks, pencils. She never tells me how much it cost her.'' 
 Before going home to meet Evalise, who would be cooking dinner that night, Ms. Louisa stopped at the Fine Fare supermarket on Castle Hill Avenue and bought two 10-packs of Capri Sun strawberry kiwi drinks ($5), four one-liter bottles of Pepsi ($5) and two bottles of Goya Cola Champagne ($1.98).
 ''The last time I went food shopping was two weeks ago,'' she said. ''But we still have a lot of food left. Hopefully I'll get my mother's check tomorrow.''

Evening
 Soon after Ms. Louisa arrived home, her children began filtering in from school, and Evalise had commandeered the kitchen and was making fried chicken cutlets.
 Evalise's tall, lithe frame prompts her mother to say she could be a model, although Evalise insists she wants to be a cop. This day, Evalise was sharply dressed in clothes she had bought from her $5.5o-an-hour earnings as a summer lifeguard at the Y on the Grand Concourse, a $25 Baby Phat skirt from a local store called Pretty Girl and a $3 white shirt.
 ''I would really like a pair of Jordans or Timberlands, or one of those suits that Rocawear came out with,'' she said as she tossed bread crumbs into the frying pan. ''But I don't like to ask if I know I can't get it.''
 After dinner, as her children milled around the living room, Ms. Louisa talked a little about her life before Clason Point. She has had two partners, both of whom, she said, were physically abusive. Three years ago, when her second partner moved to Virginia, Ms. Louisa briefly moved her family to Tampa, but the move didn't work out, and she returned to New York with few prospects. 
 The family's time in a homeless center was especially painful. 
 ''They stole Joey's baseball glove and bat; the kids had nothing to eat,'' Ms. Louisa said. ''They've been through a lot. But Evalise can sing, Marylynne is going to take her G.E.D., Joey wants to play baseball, Michael wants to be a comedian. 
 ''I want them to be what I'm not, so I'm trying to give them every chance in life, but they're snotty.'' Everyone laughed.
 ''I don't think we're snotty,'' Marylynne interjected. ''We're just, you know, angry.''
 ''She feels angry because she doesn't have a nice bedroom set,'' Ms. Louisa said, ''and I can't buy her clothes.'' 
 ''We should be all right; Mom's got a job,'' Evalise chimed in.
 ''But the job only pays $10 an hour,'' Michael pointed out.
 ''And as soon as the welfare finds out I'm working, they'll lower my rent assistance and the food stamps, so I lose anyway,'' Ms. Louisa added. ''It's a hard life.''
 Reverberating down the hall from the girls' room, a Jay-Z song caterwauled its way to the living room. ''It's a hard knock life,'' Evalise sang along, perfectly imitating the high-pitched chorus of children's voices.
 In an age when so many young people seem diffident if not outright alienated, the Louisa clan seems remarkable in the way its members share a single lively space. The living room walls, covered almost entirely with portraits of the children at various ages, capture a thriving togetherness.
 Children raced in and out of the house as hip-hop blared through damaged and taped-up doors. Later, they played Xbox video games: baseball, basketball, Spider-Man, Superman. Michael lamented the fact that his mother could not get him a Rottweiler from a local animal shelter because it would have required a $150 donation. Jasmine, 11, industriously cut out a story from The Daily News with the headline ''Mob Picked Dock Union Boss, Rat Says'' for her current events class. 
 In the kitchen, their mother hand-washed their shirts and pants for the next day while plotting the tasks that lay ahead. ''I'm behind on both the Con Ed bill and the cable and phone,'' Ms. Louisa said. ''I'm going to have to call them tomorrow to make sure they don't cut it off.''
 By 11 p.m., all the children had showered, brushed their teeth and been marched off to bed. ''Kiss them, are you kidding?'' their mother said. ''It's more like I'm fighting with them to go to sleep.''
 And then?
 ''Sometimes I sit and watch TV until 12 o'clock by myself,'' she said. ''I don't have a life; my life is the kids. Or I'll pick up the Bible and read Psalm 23, about the shepherd, and walking through the darkness. Me siento a llorar a veces. I sit and cry sometimes. Oh, my God, por que no me escuchas? Why don't you listen to me? My kids think I'm going mental. And then sometimes I say, God, thank you for listening to me, because at least I have food for today.'' 

 LESS THAN HIGH SCHOOL: 19.6%
HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE: 28.6%
SOME COLLEGE: 27.4%
BACHELOR'S DEGREE OR HIGHER: 24.4%

INFANT MORTALITY RATE
(Number of deaths under 1 year of age, per thousand births) for the Bronx compared to New York City and the U.S. since 1980.

(Sources by the U.S. Census Bureau, 2004 American Community Survey; Bureau of Labor Statistics; New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene)(pg. 8)

GRAPHIC: Photos: A PATCHWORK LIFE -- Nilda Louisa and her five children in their Clason Point apartment. (Photo by Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
7:30 A.M. Braiding Jasmine's hair.
8:15 A.M. En route to school with Michael and Jasmine.
3 P.M. Grocery shopping at Fine Fare.
 3:45 P.M. Heading home to her apartment, and, below, a brief break. (Photographs by Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. 8)Chart: ''Struggling''The Bronx has greatly improved since the dreary, fire-riddled 70's, but by several current economic and social measures it lags behind both the city and the nation.MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME (2004)Bronx: $28,705New York City: $41,509U.S.: $44,684UNEMPLOYMENT RATE (AUG. 2005)Bronx: 6.7%New York City: 5.1U.S.: 4.9POVERTY RATE, 2004(Percentage of population below poverty line)Bronx: 30.6%New York City: 20.3U.S.: 12.7EDUCATION LEVEL, 2000BronxLESS THAN HIGH SCHOOL: 37.7%HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE: 25.8%SOME COLLEGE: 21.8%BACHELOR'S DEGREE OR HIGHER: 14.6%New York CityLESS THAN HIGH SCHOOL: 27.7%HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE: 24.4%SOME COLLEGE: 20.4%BACHELOR'S DEGREE OR HIGHER: 27.4%United States

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY RATES (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (77%); STATISTICS (72%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (71%); HOMELESSNESS (71%); RENTAL PROPERTY (70%); COST OF LIVING (66%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (61%); CENSUS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



176 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; THE AGE OF DISSONANCE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Great Expectations

BYLINE: By BOB MORRIS

 BODY:
Lauren Brody, a senior editor at Glamour, was looking forward to her 10th high school reunion. She couldn't wait to go back down South and walk into a room full of great-looking overachievers from her prestigious private school, feeling better about herself than she had as a student. She was married and making it big in Manhattan. 
 ''I'm just happy about where I am now,'' she said before going. ''Everything in my life turned out better than I had expected.'' 
Except of course for the reunion. That didn't work out at all. 
 Arriving in a sparkly top and four-inch heels, she immediately felt overdressed. It got worse when she realized that many of the ''stars'' of her class weren't even there. 
 ''I guess they had better things to do,'' she said. ''So I ended up feeling like a loser for going and caring so much. And then I felt silly for thinking I had something to prove.''
 Well, in a culture in which validation is all -- from peer reviews to ''American Idol'' -- reunions are harder to take than ever. And after all, this is the culture of the reunion. 
 What else to expect when a population of narcissistic navel gazers gets egged on by businesses like Classmates.com and Reunions.com? Is any nation more obsessed with high school? Many psychologists believe that it all goes back to high school, where your place in the social order emerges. In ''The Rise and Fall of the American Teenager'' Thomas Hine writes, ''Figuring out where they fit in -- to the universe, the economy, their social circle, their family -- is a project on which teenagers spend a lot of their time and energy.''
 No wonder the film ''Romy and Michele's High School Reunion'' is a cult favorite. Lisa Kudrow and Mira Sorvino play best friends who attend their 10th reunion planning to validate themselves in the eyes of their former classmates by pretending they are rich, successful and in love when they aren't.
 ''So all we need are, like, better jobs and boyfriends, right?'' one asks.
 Actually, all they need is some self-worth.
 ''If you continually need validation externally,'' said Martha Straus, a clinical psychologist from Putney, Vt., ''it's like your bucket has a leak. Validation never really holds when it comes from the outside.'' 
 I should have been on her couch before attending my 20th high school reunion. Feeling superior, I showed up in a too-stylish blazer wanting classmates from my parochial Long Island suburb to care that I had a sophisticated Manhattan life. 
 Naturally, I left feeling sorely invalidated.
 But not as invalidated as Tori von Studnitz, who had always felt good about her high school years in Los Angeles. Then, at her 20th reunion, she and a friend gave an impromptu after-party and waited for hours for the ''cute guys'' and ''cool people.'' 
 ''But the only guy to show up was the one nobody liked,'' she said. 
 Yes, because it's only the people you can't get validation from (like your parents and ''cool'' classmates) that you need it from, right? It makes me wonder if the happiest people are the ones who actually don't need much of anything from high school reunions. 
 ''I just enjoy saying hello and seeing people who didn't age well,'' said Ira, my spouse, ''and then that's enough. I go home.'' Last weekend we attended his 25th reunion for the Bronx High School of Science.
 As I watched him work the room in a paisley Prada jacket, getting compliments for still being the best dressed and most worldly guy in his class, I realized that he required absolutely no validation from his high school classmates. Is that why he is so confident today? Or is it that he didn't care quite so much about high school even when he was in it, because he had so much else going on upon the larger stage of Manhattan? 
 Maybe what reunions really have to offer is perspective, not validation. 
 Certainly, that's what Ms. Brody got from hers when it was over. 
 ''After that reunion,'' she said, ''I knew it was time to get over high school.''
 Let us wish her luck in doing so. Then let's wish us all the same thing.


GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



177 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 420 words

HEADLINE: Where Home Prices Rise Steeply, Bankruptcies Fall 

BYLINE: By FORD FESSENDEN

 BODY:
A NEW bankruptcy law takes effect this month in the midst of an insolvency epidemic: personal bankruptcies have been rising steadily since 2000, and will most likely reach an all-time high this year.
 The law, which will make it harder for many people to clear away credit card debt, takes effect on Oct. 17 and has touched off a rush to the courts. In the bankruptcy court for the northern district of Texas, for example, filings for September were 46 percent greater than in September 2004. 
Yet the rise in bankruptcies since 2000 has been far from uniform around the country. While there have been large increases in much of the South and Midwest, sections of the East and West Coast have had declines in filings over the last five years.
 To some extent, the increases in the South and Midwest reflect job losses from manufacturing and agriculture.
 ''Bankruptcy results from a mismatch between income and expenses,'' said Jason Kilborn, a law professor at Louisiana State University. ''These are places where you find really serious job instability -- people who have relatively well-paying jobs, and thus the impression that they can live at a certain level. All of a sudden the job goes under, and they have no alternatives.''
 But even in these regions, there are some bright spots with better economic conditions. Higher oil prices may be contributing to a decline in bankruptcies in West Texas, for instance.
 There is also strong evidence that home equity borrowing is providing a further bulwark against disaster, allowing people to refinance their debt. Many places where bankruptcy is declining -- California, South Florida and the suburbs of New York, Boston and Washington -- are areas where home values have risen steeply.
 An analysis by Ryan Ratcliff, an economist with U.C.L.A. Anderson Forecast, a service of the University of California, Los Angeles, shows that unemployment rates tend to be the most important predictors of bankruptcy in a state. But, he said, ''There is still a strong relationship between higher home prices and lower bankruptcy.'' 
 Economists say that as housing markets begin to cool, bankruptcies are likely to increase. ''At some point you will get a combination of falling values combined with rising payments on adjustable mortgages, which will result in more bankruptcy,'' said Mark Zandi of the research firm Economy.com. ''For these areas of the country that are enjoying such wonderful conditions right now, it will become much less wonderful a few years down the road.''


GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''Change in Bankruptcy Rates By County, 2000 to 2005''Low populations may result in widely diverging rates in some neighboring counties, especially in the rural West.(Source by United States Bankruptcy Court)Map of United States highlighting change in bankruptcy rates by county, 2000 to 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (93%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



178 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1579 words

HEADLINE: Constitution Or Divorce Agreement?

BYLINE: By JAMES GLANZ

 BODY:
IF Iraq's draft constitution were an orchestral score, it would be one that let a majority vote of the woodwinds determine what key they ought to be playing in. The strings could overrule the conductor's time signature in their section of the pit. The brass and percussion sections could band together and play almost anything they wanted, although they could not secede from the orchestra.
 The constitution, set to be approved or rejected by the Iraqi people in a referendum next Saturday, would allow provincial councils -- the rough equivalent of statehouses -- to cancel or change federal laws they did not like in all but a handful of narrowly defined areas, like drawing up foreign policy and defending Iraq's international borders.
Some constitutional authorities believe the chances are slim that this charter could keep all these disparate entities playing the same song. 
 ''It will be, to me, the beginning of the end of Iraq as a nation-state, but it will be done through constitutional means,'' said Nathan J. Brown, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and author of ''Constitutions in a Nonconstitutional World: Arab Basic Laws and the Prospects for Accountable Government'' (SUNY Press, 2001).
 '''Death certificate' is too strong,'' Mr. Brown said of the draft charter. ''It's a separation agreement.''
 Others see this constitution in an entirely different light, contending that its highly general language could still be molded by legislation and precedent into a subtle intermingling of the Islamic and the democratic that could form the basis for a form of government that would be revolutionary in the Middle East.
 As an illustration of the practical challenges that a country under this charter would face, councils could nullify unwanted federal taxes or declare laws governing marriage, divorce and other family matters to be either largely secular in nature or based much more strictly on Koranic principles. Local militias could be nationalized and declared ''regional guards,'' responsible for the internal security of a province or collection of provinces.
 Still, a constitutional democracy with regions that are out of step with one another would be a more coherent and presumably more peaceful thing than what Iraq is threatening to become: a collection of independent fiefs, none truly viable as full-fledged nations, that are locked in a civil war. 
 That, at least, appears to be the assumption by the United States, whose ambassador to Iraq, Zalmay Khalilzad, spent months bargaining and arm-twisting to obtain this charter.
 In the end, leaders of all but the disaffected Sunni minority agreed on a formula that kept Baghdad as the national capital but drained away to the provinces large amounts of its historical powers -- wielded for decades by the Sunnis.
 Now, people in both Iraq and the West are asking whether that charter has a chance of promoting a semblance of unity, or whether it simply codifies the centripetal forces that threaten to tear the country apart. The issue is so fraught that some analysts are already looking beyond the document and asserting that simply getting political leaders to play out the constitutional process is a sign of progress all by itself.
 ''What's really important is the emergence of a political class that would agree on the rules of the game,'' said Fouad Ajami, who teaches international relations at Johns Hopkins University.
 ''I don't think the constitution will make or break Iraq,'' Mr. Ajami said. ''What will make or break Iraq is the coalition of this national will.''
 It is, nevertheless, the bare text of the constitution that the voters will be focusing on at least over the next week. On that score, there is an equally wide divergence of views, with some experts asserting that the language does an admirable job on things like protecting minority rights and parceling out wealth from the nation's mighty oil industry. Others contend that the same language is vague and unworkable.
 And hanging over all of those calculations is a set of much broader questions on whether the details of the language matter at all given that the Sunnis, whose people form the base of the insurgency, have not agreed on the draft and that even the finest-sounding constitutions in the Middle East are ignored by the ruling elite in country after country.
 As Mr. Ajami delicately put it, ''I don't think countries in the region are ruled by constitutions.''
 With all those questions hanging over the charter even before the referendum, how is it possible to gauge its chances of becoming a functioning document that keeps Iraq from crumbling?
 The first thing to keep in mind, said Noah Feldman, a professor at the New York University School of Law who advised the Coalition Provisional Authority in the early days of the occupation, is that the natural American confidence in the power of a well-written constitution is out of place in Iraq.
 Even in the early days of the American republic, Mr. Feldman said, the constitutional framers understood that if their text tried to undermine accepted common law and religious rulings on the family, then the people would ignore the charter and it would never become a legislative backbone. Provisions like the Bill of Rights, wrote James Madison, would become mere ''parchment barriers'' where they were opposed by a clear majority of the populace.
 In Iraq, as in young America, the constitution must start by creating a rule of law that is broadly consistent with local custom, Mr. Feldman said.
 ''I don't want to say that the text of the document itself is a sideshow,'' he said. But a natural mistake for Americans today, he said, ''is thinking that a constitution is going to shape the facts on the ground, when in fact it's the other way around.''
 That view casts a positive light that is rarely seen in the West on the constitutional provisions that cover family law and the rights of women. Much attention has been showered on a provision letting the rules of a person's specific religious sect govern disputes on marriage, divorce, inheritance and the like. Women's groups have expressed fears that the provision opens the way to clerical rule.
 BUT because human rights, the rights of women and the role of Islam in the government are not powers granted exclusively to the federal government in this constitution, they automatically go to the regions, said Peter W. Galbraith, a former United States ambassador who is the senior diplomatic fellow at the Center for Arms Control and Nonproliferation, and who advised the Iraqi Kurds during the drafting of the constitution.
 That regional flexibility means that the Kurdish north can maintain courts that are entirely secular, Mr. Galbraith said. ''Conversely, the south can apply religious law strictly,'' he said.
 As helpful as that freedom could be for popular acceptance of the constitution, it could further stoke concerns that the Shiite south is well on its way to becoming an Iranian-style theocracy. Moreover, there is another critical area in which the same sort of flexibility could work against the constitution's effectiveness: the distribution of Iraq's vast oil and gas resources.
 Constitutional experts say that of all the things a charter can do to produce an accord among warring groups, perhaps the most important is fairly distributing a country's natural wealth. Daniel L. Rubinfeld, a professor of law and of economics at the University of California at Berkeley who is visiting N.Y.U., said that some specific language helped insure those rights in the new South African constitution, parts of which he helped write in the 1990's.
 ''The constitution needs to set up a framework that assures the ability of the minorities to extract something from the majority,'' said Mr. Rubinfeld, who cautioned that he was not an expert on the Iraqi charter.
 The challenge in Iraq is that the oil reserves are concentrated in the Shiite south and the Kurdish north, seemingly leaving the minority Sunnis vulnerable. The constitution gives control of existing wells to the federal government and of those developed in the future to the regions.
 Because the wording is extremely general, said Amatzia Baram, a senior fellow at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington and a professor of Middle Eastern history at the University of Haifa in Israel, two possibilities may present themselves to the Sunnis: They may decide they have been dealt out and withdraw from the entire process, or they may hope that by voting in future elections, they can elect legislators who can turn the vague language to the Sunnis' advantage, by firming it up with laws that protect minority rights. Their decision will be critical, Mr. Baram said.
 ''If they are being convinced that all is lost, then certainly this constitution will be dividing the Sunnis from the rest of the population,'' he said. ''And that would be very, very sad.''
 Mr. Galbraith, who said the Sunnis should realize substantial revenues from the oil fields, suggested there was not much point in complaining about any dissonances in the music that Iraq and the rest of the world will hear if the constitution is ratified. Given the realities in Iraq, this was the best anyone could have done, he said.
 ''There wouldn't have been a constitution if there wasn't this one,'' Mr. Galbraith said. ''And not having a constitution would have broken the country up.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); FAMILY LAW (85%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (73%); APPROVALS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); RELIGION (68%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (67%); CIVIL WAR (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



179 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Where To Be Jobless In Europe

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
EUROPEANS are famous for trying to take the sting out of unemployment, with generous and long-lasting jobless benefits. Even when political and business leaders have warned that their societies can no longer afford such largess, the European public has clung to these safety nets.
 But even within Western Europe, some countries are more accommodating to those out of work than others. So it is tempting to ask: Where is it easiest to be unemployed? 
 The answer, predictably, can depend on an individual's situation: whether one is young or old, single or married, childless or with a family, recently out of work or chronically unemployed. But attitude also plays a role: Is the person eager to find another job or looking for a life of leisure? And is the country trying hard to get the employee back to work?
 In Denmark, said David B. Grubb, an economist at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a typical unemployed person might get 80 percent of past income for four years. ''But after the first year,'' he said, ''you've got to spend a lot of your time in temporary jobs or training programs.''
 Europe's lush benefits are often blamed for helping to perpetuate its high unemployment, though it should be noted that Denmark, with perhaps the softest touch of all, has a jobless rate of 4.8 percent, roughly equivalent to the United States'. In addition to the emphasis on job seeking, Denmark has relatively weak job-protection rules, which make it easier for companies to fire workers in the first place, opening up the labor market.
 Mr. Grubb, who has compared unemployment benefits in 26 countries, offers one general rule: the most generous countries are also the ones most likely to put the most pressure on recipients to find new jobs. 
 Germany has historically catered to both those in and out of work. Thanks to its still-powerful labor movement, job protection laws here are among the strictest in Europe. As for taking care of the unemployed, the generosity was epitomized by the notorious 2003 case of ''Florida Rolf,'' a former banker found living in Miami in an apartment near the beach that he paid for with $2,200 a month in German welfare checks.
 In Germany, people who lose their jobs receive 60 percent of their salaries for 12 months to 36 months. Following that, they previously were able to draw long-term assistance and other benefits that could total 53 percent of their wages.
 But Chancellor Gerhard Schroder cut back the long-term payments, and as of next February, Germans who are out of work for more than a year will be entitled to benefits similar to ordinary welfare -- about $414 a month, plus money for rent and utilities.
 That cutback, however, has probably put a firm brake on any further changes to the system. In the national election last month, the voters punished Mr. Schroder by refusing to give him a renewed mandate. But at the same time the electorate denied a majority to his conservative challenger, Angela Merkel, who had advocated even stronger free-market medicine. The likely outcome is government by an alliance of the two major parties, each feeling it imperative not to mess with unemployment benefits.
 Voters reacted so negatively because the government's parsimony coincided with a wave of job cuts that have helped raise the unemployment rate to 9.6 percent. 
 German officials said the change in long-term benefits was intended to discourage able-bodied people from permanently opting out of the work force. But other benefits are also available, and it is unclear whether some people might still get paid more not to work rather than to find a new job.
 ''This is a difficult question that occupies us as well,'' said Eugen Spitznagel, a researcher at the state-run Institute of Employment Research in Nuremberg. ''It's a hypothesis that is plausible, but difficult to prove. We don't have the empirical data yet to answer it directly.''
 Among other European countries, the Netherlands, Norway and Portugal are viewed as particularly generous to the unemployed, while Britain and Greece are seen as among the stingiest. 
 France might be the cushiest alternative of all, however. France not only offers generous compensation, but it has yet to organize an efficient network of job training and placement centers. So in pratcical terms, the most an out-of-work person has to do to maintain benefits, Mr. Grubb said, is to call in every six months to confirm that no new job has been found. 
 The French government is trying to change this laissez-faire approach -- in part by adding yet another benefit. Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin has proposed giving the unemployed a bonus of 1,000 euros, or about $1,200, for taking a job, even as the government weighs a three-strikes rule, under which jobless people would lose their unemployment compensation if they turned down three job offers. 
 The French government is also trying to make it easier for small companies to lay off workers. But that proposal provoked thousands of strikers to take to the streets last week in Paris and other cities. Mrs. Merkel floated a similar idea in Germany, and it did her little good at the polls. Still, some European experts say that French and German leaders are at least looking at the heart of the unemployment problem: that companies are not likely to hire more freely unless they can fire more freely. 
 As Katinka Barysch, the chief economist of the Center for European Reform in London, put it, ''the best place to lose your job is in a country where it's easiest to find a new job.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 16, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about variations in unemployment benefits in Europe misstated a provision of the French system as explained by David B. Grubb, an economist at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. In France, he said, unemployed people must contact authorities once a month -- not every six months -- to confirm that they have not found a job. (Typically, they must be interviewed in person every six months about their efforts to find work.)

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Hunt -- A Frenchman checks jobs at a Paris unemployment office. France does not have a good network of job-training centers. (Photo by Lucas Schifres/Bloomberg News)Chart: ''While out of work, a single, childless 40-year-old gets ...''DenmarkHOW MUCH -- 90 percent of gross wages, to a ceiling of $1,994 a month. It is all taxable.FOR HOW LONG -- Four years.OBLIGATIONS -- Must participate in labor training or other job reintegration programs.WHO IS ELIGIBLE -- Workers who were employed for 52 weeks during the preceding three years and paid into the voluntary plan (as 90 percent do) for one year.FranceHOW MUCH -- 57.4 percent of gross salary, to a maximum payment of $7,015 a month. But payments are taxed, especially at high income levels.FOR HOW LONG -- Up to 23 months, depending on employment history.OBLIGATIONS -- France has had mixed success at plan to tie benefits to searching for a new job.WHO IS ELIGIBLE -- Under the mandatory plan, workers with six months of employment within the 22 preceding months.GermanyHOW MUCH -- 60 percent of net wages to a ceiling of $2,018 per month.FOR HOW LONG -- 12 months, effective February 2006.OBLIGATIONS -- Germany has expanded its training programs and cut benefits that kick in once the unemployment insurance runs out.WHO IS ELIGIBLE -- Those with yearly earnings up to $74,880 in western Germany and $63,360 in eastern Germany who have been employed for at least 12 months during the preceding three years. The plan is mandatory.The United States (Pennsylvania and Louisiana)HOW MUCH -- States vary, but up to $486 a week in Pennsylvania, and $258 a week in Louisiana. Federal tax applies.FOR HOW LONG -- 16 to 26 weeks in Pennsylvania, 21 to 26 in Louisiana, unless Washington makes extended benefits available in special circumstances.OBLIGATIONS -- Must be able and available to work (both states). Louisiana requires acceptance of jobs paying 60 percent of previous wage.WHO COLLECTS -- Workers who earned a minimum amount in a one-year base period ($1,320 in Pennsylvania and $1,200 in Louisiana).(Illustrations by Headcase Design)(Sources by Research by Petra Kappl [Europe] and Maurice Emsellem, National Employment Law Project [U.S.])

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (56%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (59%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); FRANCE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); DENMARK (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



180 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Drink, Don't Drink. Drink, Don't Drink.

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

 BODY:
IN April, Kansas tightened its drunken-driving law. It was nothing surprising: since the days when Carry Nation took a hatchet to its speakeasies, the state has tended to have a low drinking rate and an even lower tolerance for the recklessly inebriated. 
 Yet just a month later, the state relaxed its ban on the Sunday sale of liquor. In some parts, it is now as easy to buy a bottle of gin after church as a stick of butter. 
If Kansas seems at cross-purposes, then consider the zigs and zags of the television industry. In recent years, liquor commercials have sprouted in vast numbers on cable stations and affiliates of the major broadcast networks. But the networks themselves continue to bar them, even as they run beer commercials with bikini-clad women. Liquor commercials, the networks worry, might offend people's sensibilities. 
 Unlike, say, the French or Italians, Americans have often regarded drinking with a kind of unease that gives rise to contradictions and dissonance and boomerang shifts in attitudes. Lately, as the alcohol industry pushes to increase sales by trying to remove some of the regulations and stigma surrounding it, and advocacy groups and health experts push back, these strains seem all the more evident.
 States are tightening some alcohol laws and loosening others, including repealing bans on Sunday sales and liquor billboards, and permitting stores to hold free tasting events for hard liquor. Businesses are embracing alcohol and the dollars it brings, while trying to convey that they do so only halfheartedly.
 Wal-Mart is plunging into liquor retailing, even as it maintains a longstanding ban on alcohol at its headquarters and at all corporate events. Nascar is allowing Jim Beam and other liquor brands to festoon its cars with the emblems of sponsorship, but promises that their messages will be ''strongly grounded in responsibility.'' So television networks that bar liquor commercials are broadcasting races where liquor advertising is prominent.
 ''There are these really ambiguous messages about alcohol that you end up receiving from the leadership of the country,'' said Paul M. Roman, a sociologist at the University of Georgia. ''The messages end up being very mixed up and very confusing. And this ambivalence has been around a long time.''
 In fact, it dates to before independence. Policies regarding alcohol have been shaped by sometimes clashing beliefs. Personal freedom is valued, but a puritanical streak lingers. There is trust in free markets but also a wariness of treating alcohol as just any product.
 Consumption levels have oscillated wildly in American history. They have dropped in recent years, in part because of warnings about drunken driving and the health effects of heavy drinking. Consumption of hard alcohol sagged by roughly 40 percent between 1980 and 2002, according to the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism. (Consumption of beer was down 10 percent; consumption of wine was stable.)
 This collapse in sales has led the alcohol industry, especially distillers, to challenge the boundaries of television advertising and state liquor laws. A voluntary agreement to keep liquor commercials off television fell apart in the mid-1990's. But the ads have proliferated only in the last few years. The number of liquor commercials on national cable networks jumped to more than 37,000 in 2004 from 645 in 2001, according to the Center on Alcohol Marketing and Youth at Georgetown University.
 The major broadcast networks will not show the ads -- though cable stations that have the same owners do. 
 Under the current voluntary practices, for example, the Fox Sports cable network will run liquor commercials after 10 p.m., but its corporate cousin, the Fox broadcast network, will not run them when it shows its own nighttime sports programming.
 The distinctions can have little to do with the shows that the commercials will interrupt. Jack Daniels can advertise on the serious-minded ''NewsNight With Aaron Brown'' on CNN, which began accepting liquor ads this year, but not on the commercial time on ''Desperate Housewives'' sold by the ABC network. .
 The major broadcast networks say they are far more regulated than cable stations, so they are leery of offending federal officials, and they reach households across the nation, including areas that frown on drinking. Of course, the cable stations are almost as widely available, though not as widely viewed. What it comes down to is a perception that liquor commercials on the major networks would symbolize that liquor is nearly as unexceptional as Diet Coke, and the nation may not be ready for that.
 A few years ago, NBC tried to become the first broadcast network to run liquor commercials, but retreated under fire from some officials and advocacy groups. ''There is so much sensitivity toward alcohol and how it is consumed,'' explained Alan Wurtzel, president of research at NBC Universal.
 But what about beer commercials? 
 The fissures are also revealed in the debates over bans on Sunday sales of liquor. Twelve states, including Kansas and New York, have now scaled back these laws in some form in recent years, leaving 16 states that still have strict bans on Sunday sales of liquor, according to the Distilled Spirits Council.
 Distillers and merchants have lobbied for the repeals, and lawmakers often agree in hopes that they will reap more taxes from increased sales. Still, the states wind up with their own tangle of messages. On the one hand, officials urge people to drink only in moderation, if at all, and to give the car keys to someone else if they are intoxicated. On the other hand, officials are making alcohol more accessible and visible -- and studies suggest that easier access to alcohol may lead to more social problems, like alcoholism, violence and drunken driving. That is why states raised the drinking age to 21 in the first place.
 In Kansas, some lawmakers expressed these concerns, but a majority in the Legislature sided with distillers and liquor stores in border areas who complained that they were losing business to other states on Sundays.
 ''This was an economic issue,'' said Tom Groneman, director of Alcohol Beverage Control in Kansas. ''It keeps the dollars in Kansas.''
 While the law now offers localities the option of approving or rejecting Sunday sales, it makes one Sunday sacrosanct. No matter what the localities decide, no liquor store in Kansas can open on Easter.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Dizzying -- The networks don't run liquor ads, but they show the races that show the cars that feature the ads. A federal poster from 1937 projects a different message. (Photo by Nick Laham/Getty Images)
 (Photo by Robert Lachenmann/Corbis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (93%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (90%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (90%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (89%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (89%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (89%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (89%); BEER & ALE (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); NETWORK TELEVISION (74%); CABLE TELEVISION (70%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (67%); SOCIOLOGY (66%); NASCAR RACING (63%); CONSUMPTION (63%); HISTORY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



181 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Lights, Camera, Labor Dispute

BYLINE: By Thomas Conoscenti. 
Thomas Conoscenti is an economist who works for the Association for a Better Long Island, among other groups.

DATELINE: Setauket 

 BODY:
LONG ISLAND has begun to develop a potentially potent economic sector, its very own film and television production industry. Its efforts, however, could be stunted if a labor dispute playing out on the East End moves beyond controversy and into impasse.
 At issue is a disagreement between the Writers Guild of America East and Big Big Productions, which is using the new Wainscott Studios in East Hampton. The dispute involves money, and how big a salary the writers of shows produced at the studios should pocket. But the issue has far more importance than a writer's take-home pay and benefits. For Long Island, the future of the Wainscott Studios may determine if the region can make it in show biz. 
To put into perspective what is at stake for Long Island, the five productions shot at the Silvercup Studios in Queens generate $15 million for New York City's economy. The film industry as a whole employs 100,000 New Yorkers and puts $5 billion into the city's economic coffers. These are stunning numbers that underscore the importance of movie and television productions. The issue is of such importance to Mayor Michael Bloomberg that his commissioner of films, theater and broadcasting is backed up by a host of economic incentives that open doors for the film industry throughout the five boroughs. 
 Steve Levy, Suffolk County's executive, can read a ledger with equal skill. As a result, he has strengthened his cultural affairs office and coordinated its efforts with his economic development office. Mr. Levy's Suffolk County film office now provides a virtual concierge service to the industry, finding locations and accommodations while walking producers through special permits and other requirements. More important, Suffolk officials are not only attracting location productions, they are also bringing business to studios like Wainscott. 
 For Long Island, this opportunity is a second chance. When movies were first recognized as powerful entertainment in the early 1900's, the Vitagraph Company opened a studio in Bay Shore where the ''Keystone Cops'' and ''Our Gang'' comedies had their start. The film technicians behind primitive movie cameras found that the south shore, with its southern exposure, offered perfect conditions for filming. 
 And it wasn't just Bay Shore. Port Washington, with its sand pits, stood in for the Sahara. Legendary heartthrob Rudolph Valentino played his desert scenes in the Hamptons and Long Beach. With access to New York money and the Long Island Rail Road, producers, actors and studio technicians regularly headed east from their Astoria studios to film on location. In time, however, Hollywood became a more compelling location, and the region's film industry declined, until now. 
 The current Writers Guild attack on Big Big Productions is a dispute that's as old as the film industry itself with labor pushing back against anything that strikes them as new and therefore threatening. But Long Island is no stranger to labor disputes. The giant rat inflated at contested job sites is well known -- and as ubiquitous as a Friday night traffic jam on the Long Island Expressway. Nor does the role of celebrities' signatures on guild petitions make Long Islanders more compelled to side with the writers versus management. 
 But we all have a stake in the outcome of this confrontation. While we tend to downplay the competitive nature between New York City and Long Island, city officials will not be displeased if the Wainscott studio is run aground. They know only too well the benefits that a vibrant entertainment industry brings to New York's economy and they have no reason to see their market share eroded. If the guild cripples Wainscott by bleeding its production company, a door that has begun to open for Long Island will start to close. 
 Much as carriage makers had to accept the arrival of the automobile 100 years ago, the Writers Guild should deflate the rat and come to terms with a production company that is leveraging 21st century information technology to produce entertainment. Create a compromise before one side or the other is fatally wounded. In the meantime, the bicounty region needs to take a cue from Mr. Levy and become an advocate of incentives that allow us to strengthen Wainscott Studios and others who wish to follow in its wake on Long Island.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (92%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); MAYORS (76%); COUNTIES (71%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (68%) Motion Pictures; Labor; Wages and Salaries

ORGANIZATION: Writers Guild of America; wainscott studios (east hampton, ny)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (52%) Thomas Conoscenti

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Long Island (NY); East Hampton (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



182 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: In Nassau, 3 Countywide Races to Watch

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
VOTERS don't often pay close attention to races for countywide offices other than the top job, county executive. But this year, the action in Nassau is farther down the ticket, in hard-fought races for district attorney, county comptroller and county clerk that have big political implications. 
 In all three, Republicans are desperate either to hold their ground or to score an upset in a year when they have little hope of unseating Thomas R. Suozzi, the county executive. The Democrats hope to use Mr. Suozzi's popularity to solidify their hold on the county and to continue the string of surprising advances that began six years ago, when they first won a majority in the County Legislature.
 Denis Dillon, the Nassau district attorney, has not faced a serious political challenge since 1974, when he first won office. Now as he runs for his ninth term, Mr. Dillon, a Republican, enjoys many of the advantages of a long incumbency. But he has also met a surprisingly tough opponent in Kathleen Rice, a Democrat. 
 A 40-year-old Garden City native who interned for Mr. Dillon in 1989 when she was a law student, Ms. Rice has already landed one political blow against Mr. Dillon, who is 71 and lives in Rockville Centre: she beat him in the Independence Party primary last month. Ms. Rice has also raised more than $300,000 for her campaign, much more than previous challengers.
 As evidence of how threatened Mr. Dillon is by Ms. Rice, Democrats point to Republican legal action intended to stop the Board of Elections from certifying results of the Independence primary. The case hinges on whether both factions of the party had the right to select slates of candidates, with Ms. Rice on one and Mr. Dillon on the other.
 ''The Republicans wouldn't be willing to stand before the public and say 'I don't care how you voted,' unless they were worried that the outcome could be worse,'' said Jay Jacobs, the Nassau Democratic chairman. ''Clearly, what they're afraid of is that Dillon could lose,'' he said.
 Mr. Dillon distanced himself from the effort to cancel out the primary. ''I'm named in the motion, but I'm not pushing anything,'' he said. ''I'd like to have the Independence line, but it's not vital. I've never needed any of the third-party lines to win.''
 The situation is reversed in the race for comptroller, where Howard Weitzman, the Democratic incumbent, faces a tough challenge from an energetic young Republican opponent, Donald Clavin, Hempstead's receiver of taxes who beat him in the Independence primary. 
 The county clerk seat is open this year; the present clerk, Karen Murphy, a Republican, is running for a state Supreme Court judgeship instead of seeking re-election. Maureen C. O'Connell, an eight-year Republican assemblywoman from East Williston, is running against Tricia Ferrell, the Democratic candidate and an assistant district attorney from Uniondale. Democrats say she could be the first black official elected countywide. 
 Republicans are counting on Mr. Dillon, their highest-ranking incumbent, to be a top vote-getter once again. ''Denis is completely independent as a district attorney, and that's how people view him,'' said Joseph Mondello, the chairman of the Nassau Republican Party. ''I expect enough votes from him to help other candidates on the line.''
 Mr. Dillon contends that his office has achieved a 98 percent felony conviction rate, the highest in the nation for counties of one million people or more. His staff says the felony conviction rate has stood at 95 percent or higher since 1983,
 But Ms. Rice calls the 98 percent statistic artificial, saying that Mr. Dillon's office offered plea bargains in 72 percent of violent felony cases and took only 3 percent of felony indictments to trial. ''This is not being tough on crime,'' she said. ''At some point, you have to worry about meting out justice, rather than just keeping up statistics.'' 
 Mr. Dillon said that his office does offer plea deals, ''but we only plead down one degree, and it moves cases quickly.'' The low trial rate, he said, was actually a sign of a well-run office: ''We take everything that the police bring in, and we prosecute vigorously, and we have extraordinary results.''
 His opponent's criticisms, he added, were a sign of inexperience. ''She has no knowledge of what it takes to manage other lawyers, or to run a district attorney's office,'' he said. 
 Ms. Rice worked as an assistant district attorney in Brooklyn, and she resigned as a federal prosecutor in Philadelphia in the spring to return to Long Island for the race. 
 Mr. Dillon began his political career as a Democrat, but he left the party in 1988 over the abortion issue; he is an outspoken opponent of abortion. When demonstrators opposed to abortion were arrested in 1986, Mr. Dillon turned the cases over to a special prosecutor instead of having his office handle them.
 Ms. Rice called the practice ''a glaring example of how he has chosen to put his personal views above his job.'' Mr. Dillon said it was an appropriate step to avoid a potential conflict of interest. 
 While Ms. Rice has run a spirited campaign, Mr. Dillon may be as unbeatable as his Manhattan counterpart, Robert M. Morgenthau, was in the Democratic primary last month. 
 ''It's exceptionally difficult to defeat an icon, especially when there's no overwhelming argument to get rid of him,'' said Hank Sheinkopf, a Democratic political consultant. 
 In the comptroller's race, Mr. Weitzman, a first-term incumbent, has a feisty opponent in Mr. Clavin. ''The comptroller is supposed to provide checks and balances in government, but my opponent just hasn't done his job,'' Mr. Clavin said. ''He's the administration's lap dog, and he does what he's told.''
 Mr. Weitzman considers himself part of the Suozzi team, as reflected in his campaign fliers and television commercials. ''But it's ludicrous to call me a rubber stamp of the administration,'' Mr. Weitzman said, ''because my opponents use my audit reports to criticize Tom Suozzi.'' 
 He pointed to a recent audit that found shoddy management and excessive overtime at the county jail, and another that revealed mismanagement and negligence in the county's economic development agencies, as signs of his willingness to hold officials of his own party to account. 
 Still, Republican leaders say that Mr. Weitzman uses his office to go after agencies run by Republicans, like some of the special sanitary districts in the Town of Hempstead, where Mr. Weitzman says that he found waste, chaotic bookkeeping and excessive costs to homeowners. Republicans called the sanitary district audits an election-year stunt meant to help a fellow Democrat, Harvey Levinson, the county assessor, in his race for Hempstead town supervisor. 
 Mr. Weitzman said he was not playing politics. ''Most of my audits were aimed at county departments, but I can't audit Democrats all of the time,'' he said. ''The bigger question regarding the sanitary districts is, why haven't they called for reform in these hidden governments, because clearly the abuses we've pointed out are outrageous.''
 Leaders from both parties hope success in the district attorney's and comptroller's races will trickle down to the clerk's seat. Ms. O'Connell, the Republican, is well known in her Assembly district but has had little success outside it; she was defeated twice, in 1997 and 1999, in races for North Hempstead supervisor. Ms. Ferrell is a political newcomer. 
 Even Mr. Jacobs, the Democratic Party chairman, said, ''That's a seat that's hard to get people charged up about, but we hope that people will see that the clerk's officehas been part of the Republican patronage mill for too long.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The two district attorney candidates at the Long Beach Irish-American parade last weekend: Kathleen Rice, above, with Thomas R. Suozzi, and Denis Dillon, left, the Republican incumbent. (Photographs by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTY GOVERNMENT (92%); COUNTIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); LAWYERS (77%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (74%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); JUDGES (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



183 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: New Ideas in Nassau

 BODY:
Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, would be the first to tell you that he has tackled his job with imagination and creativity. Vision is his thing. Let other politicians muddle along with their middling ambitions and small-bore wish lists; for big, bold ideas, Tom is your guy. 
 So it has always seemed a little strange that in imagining the future of the most valuable piece of open land on all Long Island, the 77 acres around the Nassau Coliseum in Uniondale, Mr. Suozzi has clung so firmly to one idea only: a deal with Charles Wang, the software billionaire who owns the Islanders hockey team, to fix the arena and build lots of shops, offices and apartments around it. If you were surprised to learn last week that other developers have their own ideas for the site -- like a minor-league ballpark proposed by the Mets organization, or a new county government center -- it's because Mr. Suozzi wasn't really looking for them, having long ago decided to go the Wang way. 
It's not that the Wang project isn't bold. It includes a 60-story lighthouse, after all, which is so bold for these parts that it almost counts as surreal. What is annoying has been Mr. Suozzi's insistence that this is the only good idea, the best of all possible outcomes, even though the National Hockey League has shown itself to be an iffy business prospect (it canceled last season and few seemed to care) and even after the Wang project notably failed to capture the public's imagination or much support in the county Legislature.
 Ever since Mr. Suozzi signed a tentative deal with Mr. Wang last October without a formal appraisal or solicitation of other proposals, critics have been tearing into it. They accused Mr. Suozzi of reviving a bad old Nassau habit of signing away vast tracts of county property to developers with cheap 99-year leases. They pressed for open competition for the site, encouraged by the Jets stadium bidding war, which sent the price of Manhattan's West Side rail yards soaring.
 Mr. Suozzi resisted. ''If somebody has a better idea, please feel free to contact us,'' he said, but you never really felt that he meant it.
 But with the project stalled in this re-election year, Mr. Suozzi finally put out a request for proposals, and the 45-day period ended last week with the filing of three new ones -- for the ballpark, a new county seat, and a complex of condominiums and office towers. Each plan includes new housing, a vital need in Nassau. 
 The Wang deal is blessedly free of the corporate extortion that so many other communities endure to keep beloved teams in town, and Mr. Suozzi may yet be proven right that it is the best deal. But it's important that the new proposals be carefully considered, with a transparent process of review and the full involvement of the Legislature.
 This is not just because competition might squeeze more dollars from the Coliseum site, but also because the parcel is part of something much bigger and more complex. The Coliseum is a huge piece of Mr. Suozzi's grand plan for all of central Nassau -- for an integrated hub as the engine of economic resurgence, providing new jobs, more housing and lower taxes. But there is much else to do before that happens, like solving the mass transit puzzle, getting the Town of Hempstead to cooperate and finally deciding what we think about that lighthouse. So it is important that the county get this right.
 Mr. Suozzi, who is itching to be governor, may be long gone by then. But those of us who are going to stay here and be stuck with the details deserve a full, open airing of all the options. The county needs to decide where it wants to go, and how best to get there. And while Mr. Suozzi has done an excellent job of leading the way so far, he should do it with more ideas, not fewer, and more discussion, not less.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); POLITICS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (88%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); BASEBALL (74%); CONDOMINIUMS (74%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Hockey, Ice; Nassau Coliseum; Editorials; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Stadiums and Arenas ; Housing; Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Hockey, Ice; Area Planning and Renewal

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (83%); DALLAS STARS (54%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (54%); EDMONTON OILERS (54%) New York Islanders

PERSON: Charles Wang

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Uniondale (NY); Nassau County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



184 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; L.I. @ WORK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: The Islanders Are Back and So Is Business

BYLINE: By STEWART AIN

 BODY:
THE New York Islanders' home opener this weekend was welcomed not only by the fans but also by hundreds of others whose livelihood depends in part on the hockey enthusiasts who attend the games -- ushers, parking attendants, food vendors, and restaurant owners and their staff among them. 
 And with last season wiped out because of a lockout by the National Hockey League owners, the Islanders' return came not a moment too soon.
''My bank account went down a lot because of the Islanders not playing,'' said Jillian M. Mager, 23, of Lindenhurst, a waitress at the Hooters restaurant on Hempstead Turnpike in East Meadow. ''I lost half of what I'd make during the Islanders' season.''
 She said that when the Islanders play at the Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum in Uniondale, less than a mile from the restaurant, the line of people waiting for tables extends out the door. 
 ''People would sit here and watch the game on TV, and we would get crowds both before and after the game,'' Miss Mager said. 
 Adam Seaman, the restaurant's manager, said an Islanders home game brought in as many as an additional 500 customers, translating into perhaps another $3,000 for the night. 
 Another waitress at Hooters, Jaimie Greenside, 29, of Islip Terrace, said that because of last year's canceled season, the restaurant did not hire extra waitresses for Islanders game nights, and the staff did not work as many hours.
 ''Now we're working more and making more,'' she said. ''Everybody was really happy when we heard they were coming back.''
 Borrelli's Italian Restaurant, on Hempstead Turnpike in East Meadow, has relied on Islanders games for a long time.
 ''Islander fans have been coming here for 30 years,'' said the owner, Frank Borrelli Jr., standing at a bar whose shelves held two autographed pictures of players and an Islanders helmet. ''We get a crowd both before and after the games.''
 Mr. Borrelli estimated that the games brought in an additional 150 to 300 customers each, or about $2,000 for the night. He said he adds two waitresses when there is a game.
 One of his waitresses, Courtney A. McDonough, said she earned an extra $100 on game nights in tips and salary. ''We're excited they're back,'' she said.
 So is Mr. Borrelli, who bought discounted tickets from the Islanders in order to sell a $40 package -- a ticket and a $25 meal -- to several games, in celebration of the team's return and his restaurant's 50th anniversary. 
 At the Coliseum itself, the hockey lockout affected the food-service staff of about 150, said Bill Cupo, the general manager there for the Aramark Corporation. The employees, all of them from Long Island, work part time, he said.
 ''It's a second job for most of the people, and many of them have been here many, many years,'' Mr. Cupo said. 
 Most of the employees -- about 110 -- are cashier and concession workers, and 20 or so are servers in the dining room and private suites. There are also a dozen cooks and dishwashers, and 10 employees are assigned to the cleaning and warehouse crews. 
 ''A lot of them had to go out and find other jobs last year,'' Mr. Cupo said, and some did not return this year. 
 He said that he had spoken with a few of the returning employees and that they were glad to work the games again because ''they enjoy it and look for the extra income.''
 Another 50 people, hired by the team, sell Islanders merchandise at the Coliseum during games, said Chris Botta, an Islanders spokesman. 
 Chris Wright, the general manager for the Coliseum's management company, SMG, said he hires 600 to 700 people for each game, including security guards, parking attendants, ushers and those who take care of the ice.
 Some were reassigned to other sites during the lockout, and others worked fewer hours. Mr. Wright said he was able to fill 10 of the 41 canceled Islanders dates with other events, including an Indian concert and an Olympic gymnastics competition, which enabled him to use many of those employees. 
 Anthony M. Cancellieri, a deputy Nassau County executive, said that the Islanders pump $65 million into the Nassau County economy, including revenue from tickets, sales tax, hotels, restaurants, related retail sales, salaries of those who work directly or indirectly for the Islanders, and money spent in the county by those who are paid by the Islanders.
 In addition to the regular-season games they will play, the Islanders had one exhibition game at home, against the Rangers on Sept. 20. Mr. Botta said 12,700 tickets were sold for it; the Coliseum seats 16,300.
 Erica Halstead-Johnson, the supervisor of Champions Sports Bar and Restaurant at the Long Island Marriott next door to the Coliseum, said her restaurant was swamped the night of the Rangers game.
 ''People we hadn't seen in a long time were here, and it was wonderful to welcome everyone back,'' she said. ''When the Islanders play, all the TV's here are tuned to the Islander game and we have a big party. And when they win, people come back and celebrate.''
 Jerry Rizzo, the hotel's director of food and beverages, said customers were ''lined up three deep at the bar and every table was full'' for that game. The hotel's more upscale restaurant, Prime Seasons, attracted some of the overflow pregame crowd by changing its menu and offering a steak and seafood buffet, he said.
 ''It was like old times,'' Mr. Rizzo said, recalling that to attract fans last winter he resorted to playing videos of the Islanders' glory years in the early 1980's, when they won four consecutive Stanley Cup titles. 
 Krystyn Rutzel, 22, of Levittown, a waitress at Champions, said its proximity to the Coliseum makes the restaurant popular.
 ''Fans park in our lot, come in before the game, eat and relax and wait for the start of the game,'' she said. ''Then they just walk out the door and they're at the entrance of the Coliseum. It's pretty convenient.''
 Mr. Rizzo estimated that with both restaurants and the lobby bar, as many as 1,000 fans come into the Marriott before or after a game or to watch on TV's placed around the Champions restaurant alongside Islanders memorabilia. 
 ''This is the place to be,'' he said. ''If they win, it's just crazy in here.''
 The lost hockey season did not force him to lay off anyone, Mr. Rizzo said, but he reduced his staff through attrition. 
 ''Now I'm playing catch-up to get more staff in,'' he said. 
 Michelle Healey, who has been a waitress at Champions for 16 years, said she expected to see fans return to the Coliseum despite the cancellation of last season.
 ''When I started, it was very busy here,'' Mrs. Healey said. ''Then there was a lull, and now people are coming back.''
 Also glad to see the Islanders return to the ice is Cesar E. Garcia, the manager of the Coliseum Deli and Caterers, directly across Hempstead Turnpike from the Coliseum.
 ''We had to modify the hours of our store last year because it was a ghost town here,'' he said. ''We closed at 6 instead of 9. Now we're open until 9 again, and when there is a game I get more help. We have fans coming in with their jerseys and the whole town looks alive.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Frank Borrelli Jr. says Islander games at Nassau Coliseum help his restaurant attract 150 to 300 more customers. Jillian M. Mager, a waitress, says that during the canceled season, her earnings were half what they would have been. (Photographs by Susan Farley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); SPORTS FANS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); TICKET SALES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%) Hockey, Ice; Labor; Lockouts; Nassau Coliseum; Finances

COMPANY: HOOTERS OF AMERICA INC (73%); ARAMARK CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (94%); DALLAS STARS (57%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (57%); EDMONTON OILERS (57%) New York Islanders

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (73%); NAICS722310 FOOD SERVICE CONTRACTORS (60%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); SIC7299 MISCELLANEOUS PERSONAL SERVICES, NEC (60%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (60%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (60%)

PERSON: Anthony Cancellieri; Stewart Ain

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Nassau County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



185 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-20

Deadly Quake Hits South Asia
A powerful earthquake centered in the Hindu Kush mountains of Pakistan sent tremors across South Asia, killing more than 18,000 people, including at least 1,600 in remote northern Pakistan, among them hundreds across both sides of disputed Kashmir. 1

Militias Above Law in Basra
In an ominous example of the degree to which militias have come to dominate Basra, Iraq, a group of 200 to 300 rogue police officiers who answer to the leaders of sectarian militias now dominate the local police force. 1

Bali Suspects Elude Capture
Three men wanted in connection with bombings in Bali that killed 222 people over three years, narrowly escaped capture in the last two days, two in the Philippines and one in Indonesia, according to officials in those countries. 6

Iran's Stocks Plummet
Iran's government and Parliament held emergency meetings last week on the country's plummeting stock market. The decline began after the International Atomic Energy Agency passed a resolution referring Iran to the United Nations Security Council for violating its nuclear obligations. 9

NATIONAL 23-34

Bush Defends Court Choice
The White House is scrambling to control a conservative uprising over the nomination of Harriet E. Miers to the Supreme Court, with President Bush pitching his choice directly to the public as his Republican allies try to shore up support. 1

Bus Company Forced to Close
Federal officials have ordered the shutdown of a company that operated a bus involved in a fire last month that killed 23 elderly hurricane evacuees along a Texas highway. 26

Delphi Files for Bankruptcy
Delphi, the nation's largest auto supplier, filed for bankruptcy protection, the largest such filing ever in the domestic auto industry. The move reinforces the industry's deepening financial crisis and is a sign that the labor upheavals in the airline and steel industries have reached Detroit. 28

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Bird Flu Pandemic Concerns
Crucial needs are being left unmet in Southeast Asia and other front lines of the world's defense against the bird flu, in some cases for lack of a few million dollars, international health officials said. 10

NEW YORK/REGION 37-43

New Yorkers, Via Katrina
More than 4,000 people affected by Hurricane Katrina have come to New York City, according to federal officials, many seeking shelter with friends and family, while others have seized the unexpected opportunity to finally make a move. 41

Gifts for Journalism Schools
The graduate journalism schools at Columbia University and the City University of New York will each receive $4 million from members of the Sulzberger family in honor of Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, the former publisher of The New York Times. 39

OBITUARIES 44

Jerry Juhl
An Emmy-Award winning writer who gave life to Jim Henson's whimsically irreverent Muppets on television and film, he was 67. 44

Chess 42
Weather 45

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); JOURNALISM (83%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); CONSERVATISM (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (77%); POLICE FORCES (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); HURRICANES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (71%); HURRICANE KATRINA (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (67%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (67%); EPIDEMICS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (65%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (64%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (63%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (63%); INFLUENZA (62%); WRITERS (60%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%); ARTHUR SULZBERGER JR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); KASHMIR (92%) ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); IRAQ (92%); SOUTHERN ASIA (91%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



186 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 6; New Jersey Weekly Desk; BRIEFS: ECONOMY; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 232 words

HEADLINE: STATE'S ECONOMY STUMBLES 

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
Even before hurricanes spurred a surge in energy costs, New Jersey's economy was being slowed by higher gasoline prices and its employment posture had softened, according to reports released last Tuesday. Both reports predicted continued, if slower, growth for the state's economy. 
''The outlook is still positive, but we see expansion moderating a bit,'' said Kathy Kalser, regional manager of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's Division of Insurance and Research. The reports cover periods before August's and September's devastating hurricanes, which the F.D.I.C. said would slow the nation's economy for the rest of the year. In New Jersey, ''No doubt, heating prices will be higher this winter, at least temporarily, because of the shortages due to the hurricane,'' Ms. Kalser said. The F.D.I.C. found that the state added jobs in the spring but not at the rates recorded in the three previous quarters, leaving job growth in the Garden State running slightly below the national rate. Consumer-driven industries, like housing construction and mortgage services, are credited with nearly two-thirds of new jobs in the second quarter, the F.D.I.C. said. The report said job growth was strongest in and around Camden because of professional and business services, and Trenton, because of state government. Atlantic City and Newark, however, lost jobs during the quarter ending June 30.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); WEATHER (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (77%); INSURANCE (76%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (76%); NATURAL DISASTERS (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (66%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Rita (Storm)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Deposit Insurance Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (84%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (73%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (73%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey; Louisiana; Mississippi ; New Jersey; New Orleans (La); Gulf of Mexico

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



187 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: The Discreet Masochism of the Bourgeoisie 

BYLINE: By A.O. SCOTT

 BODY:
TONIGHT, the 43rd New York Film Festival will conclude with Michael Haneke's ''Cache'' (''Hidden''), a formally dexterous, nerve-rackingly suspenseful movie about parental anxiety, bourgeois bad faith and the fragile, illusory nature of security in the modern world. In it, Daniel Auteuil and Juliette Binoche play Georges and Anne Laurent, a cultured, comfortable and perhaps complacent Parisian couple whose lives are rattled when videotapes and sinister drawings begin arriving on their doorstep. 
 With their book-lined house, their quietly chic dinner parties and their irreproachably high-toned careers -- she works at a publishing house, while he is the host of a popular literary talk show on television -- Anne and Georges should feel right at home at Lincoln Center. Not only do they represent French social types familiar from past programs (last year's festival opener, ''Look at Me,'' for instance, or any number of selections in the Film Society of Lincoln Center's annual Rendezvous With French Cinema), but they may also provoke a murmur of recognition from the audience. If they lived in New York, that is, the chances are good that Georges and Anne would be in the audience. (And if they lived in Brooklyn, they could be the dysfunctional parents in ''The Squid and the Whale,'' Noah Baumbach's contribution to the festival, which opened in theaters last week.) 
In describing himself and his wife, Georges Laurent uses the word ''bobo.'' The term was popularized a few years ago by the conservative social critic David Brooks (now an op-ed columnist for The New York Times), and it gains something in translation, because the upper-middle-class bohemianism it denotes occupies a more secure and visible place in French culture than it does here. In any case, one feature of the sensibility that Mr. Haneke's characters share with the film's likely viewers is a disposition toward masochism. Not as a sexual practice so much as a matter of aesthetics, and perhaps of politics as well. ''Cache'' takes in lives of privilege and self-satisfaction and gives back punishment. The psychological torments aimed at Anne and Georges seem utterly irrational and unmotivated, the kind of experiences that lead one to ask, ''What have I done to deserve this?''
 In Mr. Haneke's view, this is not a rhetorical question. Where there is punishment, there must be a crime. In previous movies like ''Code Inconnu'' and ''The Time of the Wolf,'' he has never been one to grant his characters the presumption of innocence, and their culpability tends to be both individual and collective. He holds to a secular vision of original sin, which is to say, one without a compensatory notion of redemption. Grace is conceivable in small doses -- meager acts of kindness or love that hardly measure up to the enormities of inequality, abused power and unthinking cruelty. Usually, these have at least an implicit political dimension. The secret sin behind the Laurents' benign facade is rooted in France's colonialist past and, more indirectly, its present-day indifference to its immigrant population. (The American literary couple in ''The Squid and the Whale,'' meanwhile, bear no such world-historical stigma; they are guilty only of messing up their kids.)
 The stain of racism -- and its refusal to fade from one generation to the next -- is also the subject of Lars von Trier's ''Manderlay,'' which, like ''Cache,'' made the voyage from Cannes to New York. (Both will arrive in American theaters before too long.) Mr. von Trier's cynical view of human nature can make Mr. Haneke look like Frank Capra, and in his latest parable he presents a familiar spectacle of abused innocence. This time, the director conjures up a plantation in the American South where blacks are still held in slavery 70 years after the end of the Civil War. It may be hard to take Mr. von Trier's curious ideas about American history seriously, but like Mr. Haneke, he seems especially interested in turning the sadistic force of his imagination against his presumed audience. On screen, the brunt of his contempt is directed at the film's designated liberal, an authoritarian busybody who meddles where she does not belong. 
 Some critics have theorized that ''Manderlay'' is less about race than about Iraq; in freeing the slaves and trying to reform the plantation's economy, the protagonist, a gangster's daughter named Grace, supposedly represents the arrogance of trying to impose democracy on people who may not want it. It seems more likely that ''Manderlay'' is a free-swinging assault on political correctness and blue-stocking social engineering wrapped in facile anti-Americanism. In any event it is Grace's moral hubris -- which is to say, her belief in progress, decency and the improvement of society -- that marks her as a hypocrite and a fool. 
 She is also, like Anne and Georges Laurent, a surrogate for the audience. Not explicitly, of course; she is no bobo. But if the Laurents are intellectuals in the generic, sociological sense of reading the right books and holding the right opinions, Grace, played by Bryce Dallas Howard, is the genuine article. Ruled by ideas, she tries to bring reality into conformity with them, with disastrous consequences that she herself never has to face fully. 
 But she does suffer, and so do we. The sting of movies like ''Manderlay'' and ''Cache'' can have a salutary effect, since the discomfort they provoke, even when it takes the form of defensive anger, is an antidote to the soothing reassurance that we find elsewhere. But the masochistic embrace of art that tries to hit us where we live can provide its own perverse form of comfort. Feeling bad about ourselves can become a way of affirming our own goodness, a sign of moral virtue and political concern that costs nothing more than the price of a ticket.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Daniel Auteuil and Juliette Binoche in Michael Haneke's new suspense film, ''Cache.'' (Photo by Les Films du Losange and Sony Pictures Classics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (92%); FILM (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS (89%); LITERATURE (75%); WRITERS (75%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); PUBLISHING (70%); CONSERVATISM (68%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (54%) Motion Pictures; New York Film Festival

PERSON: JULIETTE BINOCHE (73%); DANIEL AUTEUIL (73%) A O Scott; Michael Haneke; Lars Von Trier

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



188 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2307 words

HEADLINE: Power Couple

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
IT is probably the most important business relationship on Long Island: KeySpan and the Long Island Power Authority. And it seems like a rocky marriage, with the two sides pulling in different directions and chafing under the vows and prenuptial agreements that bind them. They may be headed for a breakup.
 Those watching from the outside say that despite their troubles, ranging from private disputes over contracts to public tiffs over who deserves credit for what, the two partners have nonetheless succeeded in delivering reliable and not too outrageously priced electricity to 1.1 million customers for nearly eight years.
 ''It has always been difficult and contentious -- it's the way it is structured,'' said Ashok Gupta, the director of air and energy programs for the Natural Resources Defense Council in Manhattan. ''That they haven't managed to make things worse with all the havoc is pretty amazing.'' 
 LIPA's chairman and chief executive, Richard M. Kessel, and KeySpan's chairman and chief executive, Robert B. Catell, are friends, and in separate interviews they brushed off talk that all is not well. ''There are bumps along the way, but over all the relationship is very good,'' Mr. Kessel said. Mr. Catell said that despite the complexities of the situation, ''the good news is that eight years later it's working and it's been great for the consumers.'' 
 But now a crucial juncture is near for the relationship that couples LIPA, the state-sponsored not-for-profit authority created to succeed the Long Island Lighting Company and contain the cost of electricity for the Island's homes and businesses, and KeySpan, the for-profit corporation that began nearly a century ago as Brooklyn Union Gas and now has visions of becoming the premier energy company in the Northeast. 
 Decisions are looming about who will own the Island's power plants; when and how they will be repowered, or upgraded to be more efficient and less polluting; how to add generating capacity; and which alternative sources of energy and conservation efforts to pursue. And as these decisions approach, underlying strains that may have a lasting impact on Long Island's energy future are beginning to show more clearly.
 A complete divorce, most agree, could be perilous to the region and is probably not viable. But whether the two entities can get along well enough, in a period when soaring energy costs are becoming an overriding issue for the nation in general and Long Island in particular, remains a question.
 Few doubt the importance of the outcome. ''The relationship between LIPA and KeySpan is absolutely fundamental to the economic well-being of Long Island,'' said Matthew T. Crosson, the president of the Long Island Association, a business group.
 In a sign of the worsening toll of higher energy costs, Mr. Kessel on Sept. 30 announced an increase of 5.5 percent in the existing fuel surcharge, which will cost the average residential electric customer an extra $24 a month. He attributed the new increase to global gas and oil prices and the impact of Hurricane Katrina. LIPA, he said, was absorbing $150 million to avoid an 11.5 percent increase. 
 KeySpan is separately passing on higher fuel costs to its natural gas customers, and home heating-oil customers are also paying more. The LIPA rates reflect the cost of imported power and of oil and gas that KeySpan burns at its Long Island plants. 
 The higher energy prices and what LIPA and KeySpan can do to lessen the blow are the backdrop for renewed pressure for repowering. That would involve converting one or more KeySpan plants to what is called combined cycle technology, which could roughly double its capacity while using up to 30 percent less natural gas and cutting airborne emissions by up to 90 percent. 
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York and a leading advocate of repowering, has called on LIPA and KeySpan to report by January on steps to begin repowering, which also has strong support from environmental groups.
 More support for conversion came from the Suffolk County Legislature, which voted unanimously on Sept. 27 for a measure calling for the repowering or rebuilding of KeySpan's Northport plant. The plant, built in the 1960's and 1970's, has four 375-megawatt units fueled by oil and natural gas. Environmental groups have identified it as the second-highest emitter of carbon dioxide among power plants in the Northeast, and the resolution's sponsor, Jon Cooper, Democrat of Lloyd Neck, called the Northport plant a health risk. 
 Mr. Kessel and Mr. Catell both expressed interest in a repowering project but said it would have to wait until the Island had enough electricity to take a generating plant out of service during the summer, when electricity demand peaks. Repowering projects are estimated to take 12 to 18 months.
 ''If we all of a sudden took away 300 or 400 or 500 megawatts, we would be very close to a dangerous margin if something went wrong,'' Mr. Kessel said. 
 But first on LIPA's agenda is a decision, already delayed twice, on whether to buy the electric generators that KeySpan took over when it merged with the Long Island Lighting Company in 1998. That same year, LIPA took over Lilco's transmission and delivery system.
 The takeover deal gave LIPA a one-time option to buy more than 50 KeySpan generators, including aging plants in Northport, Port Jefferson, Island Park, Glenwood Landing and Far Rockaway. The five plants produce more than 4,000 megawatts of electricity and are the backbone of Long Island's electric supply. 
 LIPA has until Dec. 15 to decide whether to buy the plants. Both Mr. Kessel and Mr. Catell said a further delay was unlikely. 
 KeySpan sells power from the plants to LIPA and manages the LIPA delivery system under an agreement that runs until 2013 and two other contracts that are worth more than $300 million annually. 
 KeySpan has more than 4,000 employees, mostly unionized workers in its Long Island electric and gas operations; many are former Lilco employees. LIPA, a thin executive shell over the KeySpan operations, has fewer than 100 employees.
 A takeover of the KeySpan plants would make LIPA one of the largest fully integrated municipal power systems in the country but would also increase what financial analysts say is an already high level of bonded debt -- now $7 billion -- and put pressure on electric rates. KeySpan would continue to own and operate the natural gas delivery system it acquired in the merger with Lilco.
 LIPA is continuing a protracted analysis of its future. It has been a year since it hired Bear Stearns, a financial adviser, as well as Hawkins Delafield & Wood, its bond counsel, and others to study the options. Talks between LIPA and KeySpan are also continuing, but Mr. Kessel and Mr. Catell gave few details.
 Under one option, municipalization, LIPA would buy the KeySpan plants and become a full-scale public power company. A second option, privatization, would involve selling the transmission and delivery system to KeySpan or some other private company. A third option -- and perhaps the most likely -- would maintain the LIPA-KeySpan status quo with some contractual fine-tuning.
 Another possibility would be for LIPA eventually to replace KeySpan with another system manager. KeySpan argues that with its Long Island workforce and experience running the LIPA system, it would be tough to replace. 
 Mr. Kessel said LIPA was considering all the options, including a purchase of the KeySpan plants. Mr. Catell said KeySpan would await a decision but believed a takeover of its plants would be a mistake. 
 ''I don't think Richie or the governor would do something that is not in the best interest of the consumer,'' he said of Mr. Kessel. ''The option agreement requires them to pay market value for our plants. I find it very difficult for them to pay market value and still keep rates down.'' 
 He estimated that the market value of the KeySpan plants would be more than $1 billion. 
 Gov. George E. Pataki brokered the 1998 deal that replaced the Long Island Lighting Company with KeySpan and LIPA. Mr. Kessel serves as the chairman of the LIPA board at Mr. Pataki's pleasure. Mr. Pataki's views on which option LIPA chooses would weigh heavily, many who are following the situation said; he has not publicly disclosed his views.
 Mr. Catell said KeySpan was interested in buying the LIPA transmission and delivery system if LIPA chooses to sell its assets and if the purchase was good for consumers and company shareholders. 
 ''We think that privatization is a viable option and we think there could be a scenario developed that could be good for the consumer,'' he said. ''But we would have to sit down with LIPA and the other government officials involved and develop that.''
 Such a purchase would make KeySpan Long Island's full-service gas and electric private utility. The company is already the largest distributor of natural gas in the Northeast, where it has 2.6 million customers, including those served by gas utilities it owns in Massachusetts and New Hampshire. 
 KeySpan is also the largest generator of electricity in New York, but on Long Island it remains LIPA's hired hand. LIPA officials have been unhappy with a KeySpan advertising campaign that they thought overstated the KeySpan role. Mr. Catell restated the theme in a recent interview. ''I like to think of it as KeySpan essentially being the energy company on Long Island,'' he said. 
 Mr. Kessel saw it differently. ''In terms of the electric system, LIPA owns the system and we give direction and they follow it,'' he said. ''It's in our contract. We're the electric company, they're the gas company. Get used to it.''
 Under Mr. Kessel, LIPA has reached beyond KeySpan for 330 megawatts of power imported over the Cross Sound Cable from Connecticut and 660 megawatts from the planned Neptune cable from New Jersey, which is due to begin operating in 2007. 
 In another move that would bring in power from outside KeySpan, LIPA is also backing a wind turbine complex in an eight-square-mile area off the South Shore, 3.7 miles southwest of Robert Moses State Park. The 40 wind turbines would produce up to 140 megawatts of electricity. The turbine towers would be 260 feet high with blades reaching more than 400 feet high and visible from the shore. The Army Corps of Engineers is reviewing the project.
 A group called the Ad Hoc Save Jones Beach Committee, whose members include several South Shore civic associations, says the project is an offshore industrial park that would forever ruin ocean views. But environmental groups on the Island and beyond strongly support the project.
 Mr. Kessel said the outcome would show whether Long Island was ready to move beyond fossil fuels. ''If we can't stick our feet in the water and say it is time to declare independence from OPEC and the oil companies through this wind project, then I think we have a very bleak economic future in this country,'' he said. 
 Mr. Catell, meanwhile, has been trying to win LIPA's support for a ''virtual repowering'' in which KeySpan would build a 250-megawatt combined-cycle generating plant on Spagnoli Road in Melville to allow an older, less efficient unit to shut down. In a combined-cycle plant, waste heat is used to make steam to drive a secondary turbine. 
 KeySpan has a state permit to build the plant, but it needs a long-term agreement from LIPA to buy power before it will proceed. After a bidding process for new capacity in which KeySpan competed, though, LIPA backed a 350-megawatt plant that Caithness Energy plans in North Bellport instead. 
 Mr. Kessel said state law required the bidding. ''I am not going to violate state law because Spagnoli Road may or may not be a good idea,'' he said. ''It did not win, it didn't come close to winning, and I would have no justification for bypassing more economical proposals.'' 
 He said that repowering older plants might be possible once the Caithness plant and the Neptune cable were operating.
 With future ownership of the aging main plants up to LIPA, KeySpan has had no incentive to repower, Mr. Gupta of the Natural Resources Defense Council said. ''Why would they make the investment, not knowing if they will own them?'' he said. 
 Even if KeySpan continues to own the plants, LIPA's participation in repowering would be essential. Mr. Catell said KeySpan would need a long-term agreement from LIPA to buy power before it would undertake a repowering project. 
 LIPA could also assist in a financial arrangement with KeySpan that took advantage of its tax-exempt status. ''That certainly would be helpful,'' Mr. Catell said, adding that KeySpan also had the ability to use tax-exempt financing. 
 Matthew C. Cordaro, the director of the Center for Management Analysis at the C.W. Post campus of Long Island University, said repowering was overdue and should be given highest priority as LIPA and KeySpan redefine their relationship. ''Whatever the outcome, repowering makes sense,'' said Mr. Cordaro, a former Lilco vice president and the author of a 2002 report detailing how KeySpan plants could be converted to the combined-cycle technology.
 The report identified the E.F. Barrett plant in Island Park as an ideal candidate for conversion. But Mr. Catell and Mr. Kessel gave no hint that they were close to announcing a conversion project there or elsewhere. 
 Mr. Kessel said a LIPA analysis showed lesser advantages from repowering than in Mr. Cordaro's report. 
 ''I like Matt Cordaro, but he was one of the architects of Shoreham,'' he said, referring to Mr. Cordaro's part as a Lilco executive in promoting the aborted Shoreham nuclear power plant project. ''We are not going to use the analysis of someone who was behind the biggest white elephant in the history of the world.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert B. Catell, left, of KeySpan and Richard M. Kessel of the Long Island Power Authority dismiss talk that all is not well. (Photo by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)
(Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Richard Kessel, left, of LIPA, and Robert Catell, right, of KeySpan, often make joint public appearances. They met with the Island's two county executives in September to discuss hurricane preparedness. (Photo by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 11)Chart:: ''Power Sources''KeySpan is the major supplier of electric power to the Long Island Power Authority, but the authority also taps other sources on or off the Island. Here is a breakdown of power capacity available to LIPA.66%: KEYSPAN -- 4,032 megawattsFive main generating stations in Port Jefferson, Northport, Glenwood Landing, Island Park and Far Rockaway, plus a number of small gas turbines and other facilities around the Island.14%: INDEPENDENT PRODUCERS -- 853 megawattsMunicipal solid waste plants, the New York Power Authority plant in Holtsville and other sources on the Island.5%: CROSS-SOUND CABLE FROM NEW ENGLAND -- 330 megawatts15%: OTHER CABLES FROM UPSTATE NEW YORK -- 932 megawatts(Source by LIPA)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PREMARITAL AGREEMENTS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); FAMILY LAW (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (94%); LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (56%)

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (94%); NG (LSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (94%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (94%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (94%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (94%)

PERSON: ROBERT B CATELL (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



189 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 2284 words

HEADLINE: Taking Credit For Rebound That Remade City Economy 

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
Of all the things that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg boasts about on the campaign trail, perhaps none is closer to his heart than his contention that New York City's economy has rebounded with a vigor unfathomable four years ago -- thanks to his administration.
 The terrorist attack of Sept. 11, 2001, punched a huge hole in the city's budget, pushed a foundering economy to its knees and raised concerns about whether the financial industry was too exposed to security threats in New York. Empty hotels were forced to cut their rates, downtown restaurateurs fond of velvet ropes were begging regular New York folks to patronize them, and major companies were poised to flee.
Nearly four years after Mr. Bloomberg took office, unemployment in the city is at a 20-year low. Tourists are arriving in droves and major companies have stayed put. Cuts to balance the city budget -- $3.6 billion to date -- did not result in the dire erosion of services foretold by critics on the left, nor did tax increases hamper economic growth, as conservatives had warned they would. 
 From the perspective of many of the city's employers, the Bloomberg administration has been far more proactive than any other City Hall in recent memory in stimulating economic development through rezoning policies, neighborhood improvements and the active seduction of companies and new industries.
 ''He basically has restructured and transformed the city's economic development functions,'' said Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the New York City Partnership, a consortium of business leaders, who was once banned from City Hall under the Giuliani administration for being critical of its strategies.
 ''Instead of waiting for someone to come and say they want subsidies, they consider it the responsibility of the economic development folks to cultivate relationships with key industries.'' 
 On the economic front, Mr. Bloomberg has his share of detractors, whose two central complaints are echoed -- but only privately -- by administration supporters. 
 The first is widespread remonstrance over the administration's obsession with building a stadium on the Far West Side of Manhattan, a plan that went down in flames, but only after charring many interests along the way.
 Business leaders and elected officials complained that the mayor and his senior staff were often unavailable over the last year to address important economic issues while they fought for the stadium.
 In particular, they complain that while the mayor was vigorous in pushing the West Side plan, he has been inattentive to the city's infrastructure -- especially transportation and power, which are critical as the city grows.
 ''I think Mike has done a pretty good job,'' said one highly regarded chief executive and mayoral ally, who spoke on the condition of anonymity so as not to alienate City Hall. ''I would say great except for the Olympics. There are only so many hours in all of our days, and attention and resources were diverted.''
 Second, the Bloomberg administration has faced complaints that it favors the interests of large companies and developers, who get sweet deals from government, over those of small merchants and artisans, and that it has had a tin ear for local politics within economic debates. 
 ''Countless politicians have said that small businesses are the backbone of New York City, and yet we're getting steamrolled over here,'' said Stanley Mayer, the president of the Bronx Terminal Market Preservation Association, which has been at war with the Bloomberg administration over its plans to displace merchants there as it redevelops the land. ''Their basic overall economic strategy is to favor the bigger people.''
 And on the fiscal front, while it is true that the administration has kept its budget balanced with targeted cuts, tax increases and surging tax revenues from a booming real estate market, it has failed to grapple with longer-term structural deficits caused by creeping increases in the number of city employees (something the mayor controls) and rising pension and Medicaid costs (something he does not). 
 The Bloomberg team brushes off such complaints, arguing that any mistakes they have made are eclipsed by the sinewy state of the economy. ''I think the results speak for themselves,'' said Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor in charge of economic development.

Even Critics Offer Praise
 But even the mayor's critics have strong praise for his management of the city's overall economy. ''This administration has really transformed economic development,'' said Jonthan Bowles, the research director for the Center for an Urban Future, who is a frequent critic of the mayor's policies. 
 He added: ''They are going after sectors of the economy with assertiveness that wasn't there before. Their focus on the boroughs outside New York is impressive. I don't see eye-to-eye with him on the stadium or a couple of other projects, but I do credit the administration for trying to diversify the economy and thinking more strategically.''
 Mr. Bloomberg's Democratic challenger, Fernando Ferrer, did not respond to several requests for comment on Mr. Bloomberg's economic development record.
 The conventional wisdom about Mr. Bloomberg's private-sector background is that it has helped mold his leadership style, in that he treats the city like a business, for better or worse.
 But in trying to steer the city's economy, that has meant a reliance on management strategies and good connections.
 For instance, the administration started its term by bringing in a firm to dispassionately evaluate the city's economy, and created a task force with many executives to figure out what industries should be courted to lay down roots or locate corporate headquarters in New York.
 Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Doctoroff sought to bring a more professional quality to the city's Economic Development Corporation, which previously had a reputation not only for being an employer for political patrons, but also for being less than aggressive in courting new businesses. The two brought on Andrew M. Alper, a former partner at Goldman Sachs, to run the agency. The three wealthy men earn a combined $3 a year for their services.
 Mr. Alper and Mr. Doctoroff began to fly around the country and the world -- generally paying the airfare themselves -- trying to persuade companies to bring their corporate headquarters here. Corporation officials have met with more than 300 companies in 23 cities around the world.
 ''This is not just E.D.C. trolling around the world,'' said Mr. Doctoroff. ''This is a major change from how E.D.C. was run before.''
 The city's most prominent success has been in the decades-long pursuit of a viable biotechnology industry in New York City, a business the city had failed to woo as it gravitated to the West Coast, Boston and other cities in recent years. 
 The city recently announced that a California real estate firm would erect a $700 million complex of commercial health care laboratories on the campus of Bellevue Hospital Center.
 ''Historically,'' said Harold Varmus, the president of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, ''there has been a lot of interest and not much action,'' on the part of city government. ''With this deal, I am feeling 100 times more optimistic than I did before.''
 And Mr. Bloomberg has not been shy about using his connections in the business world to lobby for the city. When he wanted to keep companies from leaving New York after Sept. 11, he called up Kenneth I. Chenault, the chief executive of American Express, and appealed to his civic pride.
 When he needed money for the Republican National Convention or a Sept. 11 commemoration, he called in chits with friends like E. John Rosenwald Jr., the vice chairman of Bear, Stearns & Company, whose causes he had financially supported in the past, and asked them to open their checkbooks.

Tourists Abound Again
 There is a longstanding theory among some urban-policy experts -- a theory embraced by former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani -- that if crime and other quality-of-life problems are kept in check, a city's economy will benefit, too. One area where this theory appears to have borne fruit is tourism. As anyone who has dodged the hordes of theater-bound, sneaker-clad masses on any given Wednesday over the last few years knows, tourism has fully rebounded from its low before the Sept. 11 attack. 
 New York's low crime rate and almost ostentatious official cheerfulness (this is the city that offered discounts at Applebee's to protesters during the Republican National Convention) appear to have worn down even the most skittish outsiders.
 In 2004, the number of tourists visiting the city hit nearly 40 million, a 6 percent increase over 2003. The number of coveted, often free-spending international visitors grew 10 percent in 2004.
 Those increases, fueled in part by a weak dollar, have translated into jobs. Over the last two years, the leisure and hospitality sector of the New York economy grew by 8.3 percent, compared with the 2 percent increase in the city's total employment base, according to Department of Labor data. 
 Of course, much of this growth came off a low base after the 2001 recession, and many of the jobs are low paying. However, ''These tourism jobs are directly a result of improved infrastructure and crime, which he can take credit for,'' Barbara Byrne Denham, an economist at Jones Lang LaSalle in New York, said of Mr. Bloomberg.
 A booming economy has produced concern about what many say is unchecked development around the city. In 2004, the city approved the construction of 25,208 housing units, more than in any other year since 1972, a figure that the city is expected to surpass this year.
 From Staten Island to the northern Bronx and everywhere in between, there are residents who complain that shady developers lay down concrete while zoning changes are being contemplated, work illegal hours and create housing that ruins the character of neighborhoods and is too expensive to boot.
 ''Growth is always good, but you have to be guarded about it,'' said Chuck Apelian, vice chairman of Community Board 7 in Queens. ''I wish I knew who could pay $500 a foot for these new apartments here. I'd marry them.''
 In part to manage growth, the city is undertaking its greatest rezoning effort in decades, which has paved the way for significant economic development in long-ignored corners of New York. In the past four years, the city has rezoned 52 areas covering more than 4,000 blocks, with the goal of adding 40 million square feet of commercial space. From the Far West Side of Manhattan -- absent a new stadium -- to Downtown Brooklyn to Flushing to Morrisania, underused or vacant space is now in some stage of development, often with government investment in the surrounding area. 
 In May, city officials agreed to let developers erect residential towers and retail stores on the decaying north Brooklyn waterfront. The plan included an industrial business zone designed to appease the city's dwindling and largely ignored manufacturing base, with a $4 million fund to help preserve manufacturing jobs in that area.
 ''The waterfront represents a very aggressive turnaround for government,'' Ms. Wylde, the New York City Partnership president, said. ''In the past, the city has waited for a private developer to come along and propose rezoning and typically most of the benefits went to the developer. But on the West Side and the Brooklyn waterfront, City Planning is investing in the predevelopment work and undertaking these major rezoning actions with the result that the city will capture far more of the value.''

Digging Out of a Hole
 The booming property market has helped the city balance its budgets, but its fiscal prospects looked dire when Mr. Bloomberg took office.
 With the prospect of a $6 billion deficit, Mr. Bloomberg was forced to break his 2001 campaign pledge and raise sales, property and some income taxes and persuade the state to restructure some of the city's debt from the 1970's.
 None of these moves were remotely popular. Homeowners and landlords were appalled by the tax increases. Fiscal-policy experts clucked that the debt restructuring was imprudent. And Mr. Bloomberg was widely mocked for not squeezing more help from Gov. George E. Pataki, a fellow Republican. 
 While many fiscal experts sympathize with Mr. Bloomberg's handling of the budget, others suggest he has failed to tackle the costly ''nondiscretionary'' obligations that saddle the city. For instance, budget watchdogs say, he could push Albany harder for things like a new pension tier that would give newly hired city workers less-generous pensions, or he could pressure municipal unions to pay some of their members' health care costs. ''That is what really frustrates us,'' said Charles Brecher, the executive vice president of the Citizen's Budget Commission.
 But the mayor's initial approach of tax increases to solve the budget deficit he initially faced, combined with the booming tax receipts from a superheated real estate market, got the city out of the $6.4 billion hole it faced when he took office. His operating mantra in 2002 -- that he would rather raise taxes than allow the city to fall into the lamentable state of the 1970's -- now seems prescient, as even his critics concede.
 ''He stepped into a very difficult situation,'' Mr. Brecher said. ''And he has managed to balance the budget, and you have to give him credit for that.''

The Bloomberg Record
 This is the second in a series about Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's record. An earlier article examined his performance on crime. It is online at nytimes.com/metrocampaigns.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Tourism in New York City is booming again, and many of the visitors are drawn to Broadway shows. (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)
Business at restaurants and bars, like this one in the East Village, has rebounded after a post-9/11 downturn. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times)(pg. 40)Chart: ''Bouncing Back''Four years after the the terrorist attack of Sept. 11, 2001, the New York City economy is rebounding, particularly in the tourist and entertainment sectors. Figures are through August.Total employment, in thousandsALLPercentage change: from January, '01: -4.6%from August, '03: +2.0%RETAIL TRADEfrom January, '01: -1.0%from November, '01: +5.3%LEISURE AND HOSPITALITYfrom January, '01: +6.1%from January, '02: +13.4%RESTAURANTS AND BARSfrom January, '01: +5.4%from January, '02: +12.2%(Sources by Jones Lang LaSalle
 New York State Department of Labor)(pg. 40)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); CITIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); TERRORISM (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ZONING (69%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



190 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Banking on the Bottom

BYLINE: By Mark Winston Griffith. 
Mark Winston Griffith, a former chairman of the Central Brooklyn Federal Credit Union, is a fellow at the Drum Major Institute for Public Policy.

 BODY:
IF you want a reality check on national efforts to stop banks from discriminating against low-income customers, spend five minutes in the lobby of the Rite Check check-cashing outlet on 138th Street in the South Bronx. That's where I met a 26-year-old mother who, after cashing a check for a fee and buying a MetroCard, told me she hasn't felt welcomed at a bank since she closed her Chase account 11 years ago. 
 ''It would be good to have a bank account for the sake of saving money and building something for your children,'' she said, ''but it's a headache because you have to deal with things like minimum amounts.''
Judging by this woman, and the millions more like her living without bank accounts, one of America's most celebrated civil rights campaigns is in need of repair. For almost 30 years, activists have relied on the Community Reinvestment Act, which requires commercial banks and savings institutions to disclose information about where and with whom they do business, to ensure that low-income communities have fair access to quality financial services. 
 But while this law helped spur banks to commit $4.2 trillion in investments, according to the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, it is now inadequate for improving financial services in poor areas. It's time to look beyond this law and develop a policy that holds traditional banks more accountable to low-income consumers and establishes a higher standard of conduct for all financial service providers, including ones not regulated by the reinvestment act. 
 The problem is that banks are no longer the financial service center for low-income minority neighborhoods. Instead, storefront check cashers, rent-to-own shops, money transfer operators and high-interest mortgage lenders are the de facto bankers for these poor communities.
 In the first 18 years after the Community Reinvestment Act went into effect in 1977, the number of bank branches actually decreased in low-income areas while it rose in wealthy ones. The Social Compact, a group that promotes business investment in lower-income neighborhoods, estimates that as many as 62 percent of households in Harlem do not have bank accounts. 
 Meanwhile, the alternative financial services industry, which charges high fees for check cashing, money orders and short-term loans in poor neighborhoods, is doing more than a quarter-trillion dollars in annual sales nationwide. In the ZIP codes encompassing the Brooklyn neighborhoods of Ocean Hill-Brownsville, there are 13 check cashers, while the telephone directory lists only four bank branches. 
 Like everyone else, low-income and immigrant strivers look for ways to save and build assets. But what they need to survive is liquidity, convenience, reasonable identification requirements and no minimum balances. Check-cashing stores and other unregulated financial providers are only too willing to fill this need. Although racism has progressed beyond segregated water fountains, the growth of a two-tier financial system -- one that excludes poor people and another one that feeds off them -- represents a more sophisticated system of racial and economic discrimination than existed 28 years ago. 
 The Community Reinvestment Act has provided the country with a good way to talk about civil rights and financial services, but now we must go a step further. Community advocates and regulators should start by establishing a new generation of pricing and quality standards for both banks and nondepository financial institutions. The government should set up tighter safeguards to prevent banks from charging higher rates and prices in poor communities than in other areas, as well as establish curbs on overseas money transfer fees; standard consumer protections and fee ceilings on stored value cards like prepaid debit cards; universal identification rules, especially for noncitizens; and even requirements for institutions like check cashers to reinvest in areas where they do business. 
 Actions like these could form the basis for a scorecard that individuals could use to protect themselves against shady credit arrangements, and that community groups could use to press for financial products that help poor people save and build assets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); CREDIT REGULATION (87%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANK BRANCHES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); WIRE TRANSFERS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); ETHICS (73%); RETAILERS (69%); DEREGULATION (69%); SALES FINANCING (67%); CONSUMER GOODS RENTAL (50%) Banks and Banking; Law and Legislation; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Banks and Banking

PERSON: Mark Winston Griffith

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



191 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: In Canada's Wilderness, Measuring the Cost of Oil Profits 

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: FORT McMURRAY, Alberta 

 BODY:
Just north of this boomtown of saloons and strip malls, a moonscape is expanding along with the price of oil.
 Deep craters wider than football fields are being dug out of the pine and spruce forests and muskeg swamps by many of the largest multinational oil companies. Huge refineries that burn natural gas to refine the excavated gooey sands into synthetic oil are spreading where wolves and coyotes once roamed.
Beside the mining pits, propane cannons and scarecrows installed by the companies shoo away migrating birds from giant toxic lakes filled with water that was used in the process that separates oil sands from clay and dirt. 
 About 82,000 acres of forest and wetlands have been cleared or otherwise disturbed since development of oil sands began in earnest here in the late 1960's, and that is just the start. It is estimated that the current daily production of just over one million barrels of oil -- the equivalent of Texas' daily production, and 5 percent of the United States' daily consumption -- will triple by 2015 and sextuple by 2030. The pockets of oil sands in northern Alberta -- which all together equal the size of Florida -- are only beginning to be developed. 
 Because the oil sands region is so remote, the environmental damage receives little attention from the Canadian news media or public comment from Prime Minister Paul Martin's government. But industry leaders acknowledge that they face an enormous challenge because refining oil sands is several times more energy intensive than conventional oil production. In addition, the process is a major source of heat-trapping gases and far more destructive to the landscape than traditional drilling.
 ''There is a significant environmental footprint associated with the development of the resource, and that could become a potential constraint to growth,'' Gordon Lambert, vice president for sustainable development at Suncor Energy Inc., said in an interview. But he added that with technological improvements in extraction and refining, ''we're bending the curve on a number of these historic environmental issues.''
 Oil sands development was once considered a crazy dream, too expensive and polluting to be profitable. But with oil prices exceeding $60 a barrel, companies like ExxonMobil, Royal Dutch Shell and Chevron Texaco are committing large investments to new projects, and some companies are offering record-breaking bids to lease growing amounts of land for future development. Energy-hungry China has noticed, and Chinese companies are investing in oil sands projects and a pipeline to take the fuel to the Pacific coast for export.
 In a neighboring and politically stable country, the oil sands are destined to become an increasingly important source of energy for the United States market for decades. The industry and government say the northern Alberta sands hold proven reserves of 175 billion barrels, a claim some experts dispute. But if it is true, only Saudi Arabia may have more oil.
 But environmentalists have a list of warnings, starting with the energy costs of extracting the oil. 
 ''What bugs me about oil sands is that it is a resource that is being inefficiently used,'' said Marlo Raynolds, executive director of the Pembina Institute, an environmental research group based in Calgary. ''We're using natural gas, which is the cleanest fossil fuel, to wash sand and make a dirtier fuel. It's like using caviar to make fake crabmeat.''
 The environmentalists also warn that the growing oil sands industry threatens to tear up a huge stretch of Canada's boreal forest, which is a nursery for hundreds of bird species and where bogs filter water and store carbon that would otherwise be released into the atmosphere. They say the enormous volume of water the industry needs threatens fish in the Athabasca River, the principal water source. They predict that increases in emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide will increase levels of acid rain and destroy lake fish across northern Canada.
 They also say that Canada, already behind in its commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions under the Kyoto Protocol on climate change, will not be able to reach its Kyoto targets if production of oil sands keeps rising at the current rate.
 Few Canadians seem to be complaining. This year, every Albertan -- even children -- is receiving a $400 check in the mail from the provincial government, whose budget surplus has exploded from oil revenue. While Fort McMurray is among the fastest-growing cities in Canada, real estate prices are climbing across the province.
 The few protesters tend to be local Indians, although many of the local bands are getting into the oil sands business or supplying projects with services.
 ''There are no moose, no rabbits, no squirrels anymore,'' complained Howard Lacorde, 59, a Cree trapper whose trapline has been interrupted by a new oil sands project developed by Canadian Natural Resources. ''The land is dead,'' he added, shaking in anger, as he walked through a construction site that was once his trapline.
 Suncor, the EnCana Corporation and Shell Canada Ltd. are talking about setting up a cooperative effort to capture, transport and sell carbon dioxide that otherwise would be released into the air from oil sands production. Total S.A. is considering building a nuclear power plant here to extract the oil sands without having to use increasingly expensive natural gas and reduce emissions of heat-trapping gases, which many scientists associate with global warming.
 The companies say they are committed to restoring the lands they drill and mine to a state as close to natural as possible, and they note that advanced technologies are decreasing the amounts of gas released per barrel of oil they produce.
 So far they have reclaimed 13,000 acres of forest and wetlands, about 15 percent of the land disturbed. But the provincial government has approved oil-sand work on more than 230,000 additional acres over the next 60 years, and applications for new projects are proliferating.
 Suncor, the earliest major operator and still one of the biggest, has made a public commitment to environmental responsibility. It has planted 3.1 million trees, taking cuttings from shrubs and native vegetation. The company says it is recycling 90 percent of the water it uses, and it boasts that one species of toad considered at risk is thriving in its reclaimed ponds.
 On a new production site using steam injection to liquefy rather than mine the raw material of oil sands and raise it to the surface, Suncor will reuse water from the mining operation instead of using fresh river water.
 ''With concerted effort and the technology in play, we will be taking on the environmental challenge aggressively,'' Mr. Lambert of Suncor said. But he conceded that ''the economic growth we are experiencing means a rising greenhouse gas production profile.''
 The only thing likely to slow production is a sustained decline in oil prices, something few energy specialists predict.
 ''There is no environmental minister on earth who can stop the oil from coming out of the sand, because the money is too big,'' said Canada's environment minister, Stephane Dion, in an interview. ''But we have to be very strict on environmental impact.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''The land is dead,'' Howard Lacorde said of a site where he once hunted near Fort MacKay, Alberta, that had been cleared for oil sand removal. (Photo by Ian Jackson for The New York Times)Chart: ''Barrel for Barrel''Pollution produced from refining oil sands is much higher than conventional oil production. Large sulfur and nitrogen emissions can cause acid rain, and water, once used, is too contaminated to be returned to rivers.Per barrel of oilSulfur dioxide (Grams)OIL SANDS: 106CONVENTIONAL OIL: 43Nitrogen oxides (Grams)OIL SANDS: 132CONVENTIONAL OIL: 95Greenhouse gases (Kilograms)OIL SANDS: 78CONVENTIONAL OIL: 29Water use (Barrels)OIL SANDS: 3 to 5CONVENTIONAL OIL: 0Oil sands: synthetic crude, conventional oil: light/medium crude.(Source by Pembina Institute)Map of Alberta, Canada, highlighting Fort McMurray and the Alberta oil sands.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SANDS (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); PROPANE (78%); WETLANDS (77%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (77%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (76%); MINING OUTPUT (76%); WATER POLLUTION (75%); COASTAL AREAS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); RETAILERS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); BIRDS (70%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (69%) 

COMPANY: SUNCOR ENERGY INC (64%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (63%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (54%); CHEVRON CORP (51%)

TICKER: SU (TSX) (64%); SU (NYSE) (64%); RDSA (LSE) (63%); RDSA (AMS) (63%); RDS.B (NYSE) (63%); RDS.A (NYSE) (63%); XOM (NYSE) (54%); CVX (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (64%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (64%); NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (64%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (63%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (51%)

PERSON: PAUL MARTIN (50%) Clifford Krauss

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBERTA, CANADA (97%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) CANADA (97%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) Canada; Alberta (Canada)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



192 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Compton Journal; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: For City Enshrined in Rap, Victory Is a Starbucks Latte

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: COMPTON, Calif., Oct. 8 

 BODY:
The mayor steers his sport utility vehicle into the parking lot of a shopping center and heads for one of this depressed city's crown jewels, something that has stirred the masses and fired hope about better days to come, a herald of economic vitality: a Starbucks.
 Yes, Mayor Eric J. Perrodin would like the world to know that Compton --the birthplace of gangsta rap and one of the most violent cities in America -- has a Starbucks. And another, complete with a drive-through, is on the way.
''To most people it might seem like nothing,'' Mr. Perrodin said, ''But to us, it is major.'' 
 Here is a city with 96,000 residents, 15 miles south of downtown Los Angeles, where any hint of suburban normalcy, like the recent opening of a Sav-On drugstore outlet, is celebrated with marching bands; where pastel ranch homes with well-watered lawns sit behind fences marked with gang graffiti; where mayors and City Council members have been prosecuted for corruption with disturbing regularity.
 Whatever is left of the largely black middle class is dwindling, and the killings that in the past provided grist for the music of rap luminaries like N.W.A. (''Straight Outta Compton'') are rising again, after having fallen for several years.
 So far, 52 people have been killed this year, after a 20-year low of 39 last year. Compton is still not as murderous as it was in the early 1990's, when it sometimes averaged nearly 90 murders a year, most gang-related, but the surge has alarmed image-conscious civic leaders frustrated that the violence has overshadowed the city's gains, such as they are.
 Chief among the boosters is Mr. Perrodin, 46, who just began a second four-year term and is mounting the latest effort -- with mixed success, residents and outside observers say -- to clean things up and reverse the notoriety of a city that, as he never fails to point out, was also the home of President Bush and his father for a brief period in the late 1950's. The tennis players Venus and Serena Williams are also from here.
 Mr. Perrodin brings an unusual pedigree to the job. He cruised these streets for several years as a gang investigator with the Compton Police Department before it was disbanded in 2000 amid increasing crime and a dispute between the mayor at the time and the police union. 
 ''There goes Big Mike,'' Mr. Perrodin said, giving the man, an original gangsta, a quick wave hello from his passing car. In case the encounters are less friendly, Mr. Perrodin carries a licensed handgun.
 Mr. Perrodin is big on keeping up appearances and increasing the professionalism of the city staff, to the point that he spent some 20 minutes at a recent council meeting haranguing employees over everything from failing to cover up graffiti before the drugstore opening to stringing unsightly wires over the council chamber doors for the television cameras recording the meeting.
 ''This is a new day in Compton,'' he told them. ''Your mentality has to change.''
 His main accomplishments, Mr. Perrodin said, include bringing to the small municipal airport a program that teaches young people to fly, clearing away obstacles to the development of housing by a local church and stoking new business development like Starbucks and plans for Gateway Towne Center, which would be Compton's largest commercial development in 25 years, complete with big-box retailers and other stores, on a forlorn 50-acre patch near a freeway.
 He grudgingly gave credit to his predecessor, Omar Bradley, who made headlines when he called himself a ''gangster mayor,'' for starting housing developments and businesses, too. But Mr. Perrodin scorned his predecessor for running afoul of the law and said he was keeping the city clean, literally and figuratively.
 Mr. Bradley is free on bail pending an appeal of his conviction on federal corruption charges in a case that also led to guilty verdicts for a former councilman and city administrator. Mr. Bradley succeeded Walter R. Tucker, a former congressman who was convicted in 1996 on federal extortion and tax fraud charges for crimes that occurred while he was mayor; a councilwoman was also convicted in that case on similar charges.
 Mr. Perrodin has largely evaded the whiff of scandal, though he did raise eyebrows by taking a campaign contribution in 2001 from the rap label Death Row Records -- a mistake, he now says -- and putting his brother on the city payroll after he promised to end nepotism and cronyism.
 Residents say that after the troubles of his predecessors, simply not getting indicted may be his biggest achievement, giving the city a sense of stability.
 ''City Hall is quieter now,'' said Gladys M. Russell, 79, who has lived in Compton since 1956 and has been active in civic affairs. ''His intentions are good, but we have to see what he gets done.''
 Barbara Levine, a regional manager with the Los Angeles County Economic Development Corporation, a private, nonprofit group, said Mr. Perrodin had brought a calm to the city that had many businesses at least considering locating there.
 ''They are going in the right direction, and I think they are cleaning up many questionable elements,'' Ms. Levine said.
 The Starbucks opened here under a partnership with the Johnson Development Corporation, led by the NBA star Magic Johnson, which seeks to bring businesses to inner-city areas like Compton. ''It is a city that is thriving and definitely a city we did not want to overlook,'' said Kimberly Thompson, executive vice president at Johnson Development.
 Compton has gone from being predominantly white and middle class in the 1940's and 1950's to predominantly black in the 1960's and 1970's and is now at least 60 percent Hispanic, though blacks still dominate political and government leadership.
 There has been tension, with some blacks blaming the growth of the Hispanic population for the city's ills and Latinos expressing dismay at their lack of power and access at City Hall.
 ''They were going to have this town hall meeting soon, and I was asking, 'What about Spanish-language literature for this, because if you don't have it you won't have Latinos there,''' said Elias Acevedo, a Mexican-American community advocate who ran unsuccessfully for city clerk this year. ''They said they didn't have enough time to get that done. That's the problem we have. If you don't communicate with Latinos, you are never going to get Latino participation. It's like they don't want to give up power.''
 Other community advocates have said Mr. Perrodin has been slow to address the gang problem, saying he takes a hard-line, us-versus-them approach rather than delving deeply into the causes.
 Mr. Perrodin shows little sympathy toward the gang members. ''Some of these guys just need to grow up,'' he said. But last month he and the council brought in a gang intervention program, Amer-I-Can, which was founded by the football great Jim Brown and uses former convicts and former gang members to counsel youths out of trouble.
 Rudolph Johnson, a former Compton gang member who will lead the program, said people should not expect fast results, because the gangs were so entrenched.
 ''I can't say we are going to be a gang buster, but I can say we will bring change,'' Mr. Johnson said.
 Mr. Perrodin has also discussed the possibility of seeking a court injunction against certain gangs that would subject their members to arrest if they gather in some areas.
 The Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department now protects the city and has added deputies and gang detectives in recent months in response to the increase in killings.
 While Mr. Perrodin sees a ''new day'' in Compton, he sometimes faces weary residents.
 At the Starbucks he bumped into Jenise Davis, 32, who gave him an earful.
 ''I'll give you some credit,'' Ms. Davis told him, praising him for the new stores, but then told of someone getting shot in the head across the street from her house. ''It's going to take a lot to clean up this city.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Eric J. Perrodin of Compton, Calif., greets Kenny Roy, who is participating in a program that teaches Compton youths to fly airplanes. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)Map of Los Angeles highlighting the location of Compton: Officials in Compton, Calif., have been trying to clean up its image.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); MAYORS (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); HIP HOP CULTURE (76%); RAP MUSIC (76%); VANDALISM (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ATHLETES (73%); MURDER (71%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (69%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (68%); CORRUPTION (67%); GRAFFITI (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%) 

COMPANY: STARBUCKS CORP (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Starbucks Corp

TICKER: SBUX (NASDAQ) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (93%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (93%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%); SERENA WILLIAMS (50%); VENUS WILLIAMS (50%) Randal C Archibold; Eric J (Mayor) Perrodin

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Compton (Calif); Compton (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



193 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: Auto Supplier Delphi Files for Bankruptcy, and G.M. Will Share Some of the Fallout

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM; Jeremy W. Peters contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
Delphi, the nation's largest auto supplier, filed for bankruptcy protection on Saturday, the largest such filing ever in the domestic auto industry. 
 The move reinforces the industry's deepening financial crisis and is a sign that the labor upheavals in the airline and steel industries have reached Detroit. It is also the latest economic blow to Michigan, where Delphi, based in Troy, is one of the largest employers.
And it will likely cost General Motors, Delphi's former parent company, billions of dollars, because G.M. made commitments to pay for much of Delphi's retiree pension, health and life insurance benefits in the event of a bankruptcy. In its filing on Saturday, Delphi said it would file a motion to end health and life insurance benefits in mid-December for its roughly 12,000 American retirees. 
 The company is also seeking to cut wages of its nearly 35,000 hourly American workers by up to two-thirds, to as little as $10 an hour, though it is not clear whether they will succeed in doing so. 
 ''Delphi's decision is obviously an extremely bitter pill,'' said Ron Gettelfinger, the president of the United Automobile Workers union, in a written statement. 
 Robert S. Miller, chairman and chief executive of Delphi, said in his own written statement: ''We took this action because we are determined to achieve competitiveness for Delphi's core United States operations.''
 ''We simply cannot afford to continue to be encumbered by high legacy issues and burdensome restrictions under current labor agreements that impair our ability to compete,'' he added. 
 G.M. said the filing could increase its future liabilities by as much as $11 billion, or possibly far less. Looking for a silver lining, G.M. also said it could reap as much as $2 billion in annual savings if Delphi's parts were more competitively priced once it restructures.
 The company filed in Federal Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan under Chapter 11 of federal bankruptcy regulations, which provides protection from creditors. The move came after Mr. Miller failed to secure a multibillion-dollar bailout package from G.M. along with sweeping wage and benefit concessions from its unions, the largest of which is the U.A.W. The company's American work force earns far more in wages and benefits than workers doing similar jobs in countries like Mexico and China, a legacy of labor contracts negotiated by G.M. over several decades. 
 Mr. Miller said he expected his company to emerge from bankruptcy proceedings by early to mid-2007. The filing applies to Delphi's American operations, not its overseas businesses. 
 Delphi, which listed global assets of $17.1 billion and liabilities of $22.2 billion, has $4.5 billion worth of credit lined up and said in its statement that it would continue to produce and deliver its parts on schedule. Delphi's customers include all of the industry's major automakers, but the largest is G.M., which spun off Delphi in 1999.
 The government may have to assume responsibility for a pension fund that is nearly $11 billion short of its obligations, according to a calculation by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation obtained by The New York Times, though it is not a foregone conclusion. Delphi's separate calculation, which assumes the plan would not be terminated and would continue to receive new money, indicates that it is about $4 billion short of its obligations.
 Delphi, which has 185,000 workers worldwide, has reported losses of $5.5 billion in the last six quarters, and its cash reserves have dwindled. With half of its business coming from G.M., its fortunes have waned along with those of its former parent, and Delphi's executive suite has been largely purged in the wake of an accounting scandal. The company makes a range of auto parts, from air bags to instrument panels, that are installed in about 75 million cars and trucks. 
 Three months ago, Delphi's board hired Mr. Miller, an executive with a history of turnarounds. Mr. Miller had said the company would file before a major change in bankruptcy laws took effect on Oct. 17, unless G.M. and Delphi's unions agreed to his demands. 
 This week, hopes that such a complex deal would emerge were dashed, with local union leaders saying they simply could not accept the sharp cuts. 
 Delphi wanted workers to accept wages of $10 to $12 an hour, compared with the $26 to $30 an hour most make today. One union local pointed out to members in a letter last week that they would likely no longer be able to afford new cars with Delphi parts if such wages were put in place, but it conceded that a better deal was not likely in bankruptcy court. The company also wants to close some of its plants and stop paying 4,000 workers who no longer have jobs to do, as required by their current contract. 
 On Friday, in a move that dismayed the union, Delphi sweetened severance packages available to its top 21 executives, a move the company said was necessary to retain its newly assembled management team. Union leaders, however, said it showed a lack of shared sacrifice.
 ''Once again, we see the disgusting spectacle of the people at the top taking care of themselves at the same time they are demanding extraordinary sacrifices from their hourly workers, engineers, administrative and support staff, midlevel managers and others,'' Mr. Gettelfinger said.
 Most workers have seen the writing on the wall. 
 On Thursday, Dayna Delling, a 49-year-old electrician at a Delphi plant in Flint, Mich., said she could not get used to the thought of a bankruptcy. 
 ''You feel like throwing up,'' she said. ''You try not to think about it too much.''
 Donnell Smith, an assembly line worker at the plant, said he thought a bankruptcy filing was inevitable because it would allow Delphi to impose the wage and benefits cuts it is seeking. ''They're better off filing for bankruptcy,'' Mr. Smith, 52, said. ''That's bad news for us.''
 From Mr. Miller's perspective, and in the view of many financial analysts, the company cannot continue to support the high cost of paying its United States work force. 
 ''There are all kinds of things other than just wages that need to be dealt with here,'' Mr. Miller said in a recent interview. 
 The domestic auto industry faces the same kinds of labor problems that have bedeviled airlines and steel companies, with too few workers trying to support too many retirees, and too many workers being paid for not working. Health care costs are an increasingly onerous burden. G.M. pays $1,500 in health care costs for every vehicle produced in the United States, exceeding the cost of steel, while rivals like Toyota of Japan have nationalized health care at home and support very few American retirees.
 Competitive pressures on the domestic automakers have been passed on to their domestic suppliers, and several of them have previously filed for bankruptcy. Delphi is now the largest to do so in the industry. The company had $28.62 billion in annual revenue last year and is ranked 63rd on the most recent Fortune 500 list of the nation's largest companies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); LIFE INSURANCE (75%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); EXECUTIVES (66%) 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp; Delphi Corp

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



194 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Kazakhstan Says End of Bomb-Grade Uranium Is in Sight

BYLINE: By ETHAN WILENSKY-LANFORD

DATELINE: UST-KAMENOGORSK, Kazakhstan, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
More than a decade after pledging to give up its nuclear arsenal, Kazakhstan announced Saturday that it was moving closer to a second goal: ridding itself of highly enriched nuclear reactor fuel, which terrorists could use to construct a crude nuclear bomb.
 The announcement in this distant industrial outpost on the Kazakh steppe was made as Kazakhstan's national atomic company, Kazatomprom, and the Nuclear Threat Initiative, an American nonprofit organization, neared the completion of blending down roughly 6,600 pounds of highly enriched uranium to a different form that is suitable for civilian use but is not weapons-grade.
President Nursultan Nazarbayev hailed the news at a gathering of non-proliferation officials here, adding in an interview that his nation would convert its remaining nuclear reactor fuel, and perhaps try to convert fuel from other nations as well.
 ''Now we are capable of converting the highly enriched uranium, or any remains of that uranium, into low-enriched uranium,'' Mr. Nazarbayev said. ''Maybe one day our factory here in Kazakhstan can be a place where highly enriched uranium from other countries can be processed into a low-enriched form.'' 
 The announcement underscored the quiet sense of urgency among nonproliferation officials since the terrorist attacks in the United States in 2001. It also demonstrated a continued area of collaboration between the West and a centralized post-Soviet government in a region where relations have been strained by the slow pace of political and economic changes.
 Kazakhstan, the only Central Asian nation left with nuclear weapons after the break up of the Soviet Union, inherited 1,410 atomic warheads in 1991, giving it the fourth-largest nuclear inventory in the world. 
 Mr. Nazarbayev, the former Communist official who has led the nation throughout its independence, committed to destroy or return to Russia all of its arsenal, and the country swiftly rid itself of nuclear weapons -- a decision that Western officials said influenced similar choices by Ukraine and Belarus. ''I know what a powerful influence that was,'' said former Senator Sam Nunn, of Georgia, who worked extensively on non-proliferation issues in the Senate and is a co-chairman of the Nuclear Threat Initiative.
 But in addition to its vast nuclear arsenal, Kazakhstan also inherited five aging nuclear reactors, all of which used highly enriched uranium, posing a threat of a different sort.
 According to the International Atomic Energy Agency, the world's central nuclear regulatory body, as little as 60 pounds of highly enriched uranium is sufficient to make a nuclear weapon.
 Given the potential dangers, the United States, along with other nations and the International Atomic Energy Agency, has been helping to underwrite the more secure storage and conversion of highly enriched reactor fuel.
 The work has been quietly conducted in several nations, including Romania, Bulgaria and Latvia, and has gone forward in nations that have had strained relations with the United States. For example, the United States National Nuclear Security Administration, the semiautonomous agency in the Department of Energy that works on nonproliferation projects, removed highly enriched fuel from reactors in Libya and Uzbekistan in 2004.
 The United States has also encouraged the closure of nuclear reactors that use the highly enriched fuel, or their conversion to use the less dangerous low enriched fuel.
 The project here is a cooperative undertaking of the Nuclear Threat Initiative, an organization financed principally by Ted Turner that complements the government's work, and Kazatomprom. It began in 2001, when the Nuclear Threat Initiative approached Kazakhstan and offered to help move the fuel from a reactor near the border with Iran and to the site here, and convert it to low enriched uranium, Mr. Nunn said.
 A vice president for the group, Laura Holgate, said it proposed the project because the fresh fuel from Aktau was ''falling through the cracks'' of programs run by the United States. Kazatomprom and the Nuclear Threat Initiative split the $2 million cost, which included upgrading the plant where fuel is converted. Once the conversion is completed, the fuel will be sold for use in civilian electricity production.
 Although Kazakhstan has only a fraction of its former material that could be used for a weapons, non-proliferation experts said its work was not completed. There remains an undisclosed quantity of highly enriched uranium at one other Kazakh research reactor. Mr. Nazarbayev also vowed to convert this fuel.
 ''If in that reactor there is some highly enriched uranium which can be converted,'' he said, ''we will make sure it will be converted.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sam Nunn, right, the former Georgia senator and a chairman of the Nuclear Threat Initiative, an American group that works to control nuclear weapons, at a plant yesterday in Ust-Kamenogorsk, Kazakhstan. (Photo by Mikhail Metzel/Associated Press)Map of Kazakhstan highlighting Ust-Kamenogorsk: A plant in Ust-Kamenogorsk converts uranium to nonbomb form.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (94%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); TERRORISM (90%); NUCLEAR FUEL MFG (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%) 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (59%) International Atomic Energy Agency; Kazatomprom; Nuclear Threat Initiative (Orgn)

PERSON: Ethan Wilensky-Lanford

GEOGRAPHIC: KAZAKHSTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA (90%); UKRAINE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ASIA (79%); BELARUS (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); BULGARIA (78%); LATVIA (69%) Kazakhstan; Kazakhstan

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



195 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; On Baseball; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1532 words

HEADLINE: Swimming With the Sharks, and Devil Rays

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
TEN days before he was to replace Vince Naimoli as managing partner of the Tampa Bay Devil Rays, Stuart Sternberg was talking about his impending elevation to the position of controlling owner, but not too loudly. Sternberg was concerned that if Naimoli heard or read he was talking about the change before it occurred, he might try to stall the turnover.
 ''There's not a lot I can say about anything given the contract,'' Sternberg said. ''We're in a very touchy time right now. Vince and I have been talking on and off since we signed the deal a year and four months ago. We've talked about pushing the date back, moving it up. It's been changing since the date we signed the agreement.''
Sternberg, a 46-year-old New Yorker, who will try to resuscitate the Devil Rays' lamentable franchise, was genuinely concerned that Naimoli could still foul up the plans even though they were stipulated in a contract. 
 ''I don't know if I can talk about that,'' he said, responding to a question about Naimoli. ''It's just got to wait some period of time, not to say it's a long period of time. If anything came out, it would be damaging for my ability to go forward and get this deal done.''
 The deal is done. It was announced Thursday, and there is nothing Naimoli can do to upset it. Naimoli, the man who took baseball to the west coast of Florida, then wrecked it single-handedly, has the title of chairman emeritus, but it is a title only. It does not entitle him to do anything that would affect the operation of the Devil Rays. He has done enough in the past eight years to affect the operation, nothing good.
 Now it is in Sternberg's hands to bring the franchise to life. This is where he starts.
 The Devil Rays tied for the second-worst record in the major leagues this year and had the smallest attendance. After a 2004 season in which they won a franchise-record 70 games and did not finish in last place for the first time in seven years, they reverted to 67 victories and last place. 
 Sternberg is nevertheless confident he can turn things around. ''As long as people don't expect anything to happen overnight,'' he said. ''You have to change things when you go into a business.''
 Sternberg has begun the changes, dismissing Chuck LaMar, the only general manager the team has had, and two of his chief aides. Sternberg will also need a new manager because Lou Piniella did not stick around for the last year of his contract, taking a $2.2 million buyout instead of waiting to get his $4.4 million salary.
 Sternberg said he would look for a manager ''who wants to work with younger players and get out in the community.''
 On the business side, he said, Matt Silverman, a 29-year-old Harvard graduate, will be the president and run the team day to day. It remains to be seen how much economic energy Sternberg will put into the Devil Rays, whose $30 million payroll was the lowest in the majors this year. 
 ''There's a lot of work to be done,'' Sternberg said. ''You like to be able to build something.''
 Why did he choose to buy into the Devil Rays? Sternberg said that he had looked into the possibility of buying a small interest in the Mets, but that it did not work out.
 ''Baseball,'' he said. ''It was simple as that. I've been put in a position where I can afford to do it. I didn't think the economics were atrocious. It wouldn't be a good business investment if it were tires, but it's baseball.''
 Might he have been foolish, though, to have gone into the baseball business with Naimoli?
 ''It's been suggested, but I try to look past individuals and look at the big picture,'' he said. ''I did it with the feeling that at some point I'll be able to put my stamp on it. We liked the opportunity of the marketplace, but we knew there was going to be a challenge.''
 Sternberg and his five partners are believed to have paid $65 million for 48 percent of the team, then made an additional payment to induce Naimoli to leave now rather than after the 2006 season, as the original agreement provided. 
 Sternberg was in position to buy into the Devil Rays because in 2000, Goldman Sachs bought Spear, Leeds & Kellogg, an options-trading firm in which Sternberg was a partner, for a reported $6.5 billion. Some of his partners in Spear are now his partners in the Devil Rays.
 Sternberg grew up in Brooklyn and started working on Wall Street getting coffee in the 1970's. He lives in Westchester County and has an office in Manhattan.
 ''Business expertise I have certainly,'' he said. ''I have no more baseball expertise than probably a ton of fans out there, but that's a passionate bunch. And a well-read bunch. I consider myself both, with a very good business background.''
 As his first steps toward changing the face of the franchise, Sternberg said, he will ''reach out to the surrounding communities and the entire region and try to make them care and have them care about the team.''
 He knows his task will not be easy. ''The whole concept of baseball was in free fall,'' he said, but he added optimistically, ''We should be able to get this into the middle of the pack in three to five years.''
 First, owners of the other 29 teams have to approve him, but that is a formality. In fact, Naimoli was held in such low esteem in baseball that the owners will probably approve Sternberg with a standing ovation.

Reds Put Their Trust in Narron
 Of the four managers who assumed command of their teams during the season, only Jerry Narron of Cincinnati avoided a losing record and only Narron has been hired for next season. Cincinnati had a 46-46 record under Narron, Pittsburgh was 12-14 under Pete Mackanin, Baltimore was 23-32 under Sam Perlozzo and Kansas City struggled to a 43-69 record under Buddy Bell.
 On the day that the Reds named Narron as their manager for next season, Doug Melvin, his minor league roommate and battery mate, was in the process of having his contract extended as the general manager of the Milwaukee Brewers. 
 ''We played together in the Yankee system in 1976 in the Florida State League, and then went to the Eastern League and played together in '77,'' Melvin said. ''We became good friends. Jerry was traded to Seattle, and there were years when we didn't see each other, but our paths crossed later on.''
 When Melvin was no longer pitching but Narron was still catching, Melvin, then Baltimore's minor league director, signed him to play in the Orioles' system. 
 '''Jerry, I don't think you're as much a prospect now, but I'd like you to come to Rochester and be a team leader''' Melvin said he told Narron. '''Afterwards you could become a coach and a manager.'''
 Narron followed Melvin's outline, impressed Johnny Oates, then Rochester's manager, and Birdie Tebbetts, an Orioles scout, and eventually became the Texas Rangers' manager when Oates's cancer was diagnosed.
 When they roomed together in the minors, Melvin recalled, they had a third roommate, a trainer, and the apartment had only one bedroom.
 ''We flipped a coin to see who would sleep in a walk-in closest,'' Melvin said. ''Jerry lost the flip, and he slept in the closet all year.''
 As he climbed the managerial ladder, Narron's living accommodations became better. 

Unhappiness Loves Company
 Unlike the Mets, who finished the season strong under their rookie manager, Willie Randolph, the Marlins and the Orioles have much resuscitation work to do before next season. The Orioles, to be sure, had an unusual distraction with Rafael Palmeiro's shocking suspension for steroids use, but he had not been an integral part of their offense, and the other players should have been able to overcome the development. They did not, and neither did the team as a whole. 
 Peter Angelos, the unhappy owner, could make a clean sweep of the people in charge and start anew once more. He has to make decisions about two general managers and a manager.
 Jeffrey Loria, the Marlins' owner, did not want to talk about his team, and who could blame him? Considered by many as the best team in the National League East, not to mention the wild-card favorite, the Marlins had a one-game wild-card lead after the games of Sept. 13, then lost two games to Houston, two of three to the Phillies and to the Mets, and three each to the Braves and to the Nationals, 12 losses in 14 games.
 The team erupted in the hottest display of clubhouse dissension seen in recent years. Like Angelos, Loria has a lot of work to do, and he may start by trading Carlos Delgado, whose contract he may consider too expensive to retain.

There's Evil and Then There's Evil
 Nearly three years ago, the Yankees and the Red Sox fought over the services of Jose Contreras, a Cuban defector, whose decision to sign with the Yankees prompted Larry Lucchino, the Red Sox' president, to refer to the Yankees as the evil empire. Contreras did not pitch particularly well for the Yankees, and they traded him to the White Sox.
 This season, especially late this season, he has sparkled for the White Sox, winning his last nine starts, including his playoff start against the Red Sox on Tuesday. He will either pitch against the Yankees or the Angels in the league championship series this week.
 Now who's evil?


GRAPHIC: Photos: Stuart Sternberg, a 46-year-old native New Yorker, made millions on Wall Street and will try to turn around the moribund Tampa Bay Devil Rays. (Photo by James Borchuck/St. Petersburg Times)
 Vince Naimoli: addition by subtraction. (Photo by Robert Azmitia/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%) Baseball

ORGANIZATION: TAMPA BAY DEVIL RAYS (94%) Tampa Bay Devil Rays

PERSON: Murray Chass; Stuart Sternberg

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005



196 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Continents Apart, Two Odysseys on Parallel Tracks

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
Enterprise is more easily rewarded in the theater than in film or television, primarily because the price tag isn't so high. Aspiring filmmakers need a whole apparatus to support them, not to mention a big checkbook, but theatrical talent just needs somebody to lend a stage, somebody to lend an ear and somebody to spread the word.
 Danai Gurira and Nikkole Salter, the authors and performers of the new play ''In the Continuum,'' are appearing only two nights a week at the 59E59 Theaters, courtesy of Primary Stages, but these fiercely talented young women won't be spending much downtime in the near future, if their ambition meets with the success it deserves.
The play, adroitly directed by Robert O'Hara, is a kaleidoscopic diptych of two black women -- one a middle-class wife and mother in Zimbabwe, the other a 19-year-old at loose ends in Los Angeles -- whose lives are suddenly upended by H.I.V. diagnoses. Moving, smart, spirited and powerfully funny, it happens to boast a flawless cast, too: Ms. Gurira and Ms. Salter, who met as acting graduate students at New York University, possess the strong presence and confident technique needed to bring out the subtle force and potent flavoring in their writing. 
 ''It sounds depressing,'' whined the friend I invited when I described the play's worthy journalistic subject matter. Worthy it certainly is, but ''In the Continuum'' emphatically is not a downer. And while that equally uninviting epithet ''thought provoking'' applies, the disturbing points the play gently makes about the status of black women both in America and in Africa are humanized with such emotional vibrancy that the play leaves little aftertaste of sorrow.
 Much has been written about the alarming susceptibility of black women to H.I.V. infection, and its rampaging progress in Africa. But Ms. Gurira and Ms. Salter write the story in flesh and blood -- in the medium of life, which is realized most immediately onstage. And life, hard as it has suddenly become for the central characters in ''In the Continuum,'' is never just something to shed tears over.
 The stories of Abigail (Ms. Gurira), a news reader at the government broadcast service in Zimbabwe, and Nia (Ms. Salter), a Nordstrom employee fired for taking a five-finger discount one time too many, proceed along separate tracks that run parallel at telling moments, and intersect, at least on a dramatic plane, at others.
 Abigail, smart, ambitious and self-confident, clings uncertainly to her middle-class status as the economy of Robert Mugabe's Zimbabwe collapses around her. She is first seen blithely chattering to colleagues about her young son and her inattentive husband. She is hoping that a new pregnancy will keep him closer to home. ''He'll come around, he just needs another boy, that will help,'' Ms. Gurira briskly says in her wonderfully melodious voice. ''A girl?'' she sniffs. ''What am I going to do in this world with a girl?''
 Nia, gleaming with sass and attitude, is first introduced lecturing her friend Trina in the bathroom of a nightclub. Nia has pinned her hopes for the future on her boyfriend, Darnell, a basketball star who has his pick of college scholarships. Despite a bumpy past and a few stints in foster homes, Nia could still make something of herself, too. She won $500 in a poetry contest, after all, and, in one of the show's funniest interludes, she shares with Trina the mechanics of writing haiku, whipping up an impromptu piece to illustrate the form's syllabic simplicities. The first line, addressed to a female rival, is unprintable, but the poem concludes: ''Wit yo' crunchy baby hair -- seven! Leave Darnell alone -- five.''
 One of the most tensely powerful moments comes soon thereafter, in a deftly staged sequence in which Ms. Gurira is seen in the role of a nurse casually giving Abigail the news that she has tested H.I.V.-positive. Instead of Abigail's reaction, we witness Nia's brassy mask melt away as she absorbs the same news from a nurse at the hospital where she and Trina have landed after a shooting at the club.
 Abigail and Nia's odysseys then diverge, even as Ms. Gurira and Ms. Salter continue to underscore the ways in which these women living in disparate cultures, with vastly different economic and social climates, struggle with the same essential quandry: how to move ahead in a world in which everything has changed and yet nothing has changed. Their problems have multiplied, but their opportunities are still largely tied to the chance of getting -- or hanging on to -- a male provider, in both cases the man who infected them.
 Shortly after receiving their diagnoses, Abigail and Nia recede into the background as Ms. Gurira and Ms. Salter portray the people they turn to for guidance and comfort. As they move among these characters, the actresses display the breadth of their acting skills as well as the meticulous attention they've paid to the construction of character. Each portrait comes through in sharp, photographic detail.
 But it's here that the play's beginnings as an acting-school project become discernible. Stronger development of the central characters would probably be more satisfying, and some of the supplementary ones -- a witch doctor, Nia's guidance counselor -- are drawn too satirically. But if Abigail and Nia's disappearance is a dramatic liability, their evaporation from the narrative of their lives is also a potent metaphor for the simultaneous absence and presence of H.I.V.-positive women in their communities, in which taboos about AIDS are still a powerful and destructive force.
 Nia and Abigail's stories dovetail again as the play concludes, on a slightly contrived note of symmetry, with each facing a chance to confront the man who has infected her, and to bring to light the anguish each has been grappling with alone. But neither the play's flaws nor its grim subject can chill the warm afterglow it leaves behind, of human struggles explored, illumined and embraced.

In the Continuum

Written and performed by Danai Gurira and Nikkole Salter; directed by Robert O'Hara. Costumes by Sarah Hillard; lighting by Jim French; sound by Lindsay Jones; properties design by Jay Duckworth; production supervision, PRF Productions; production stage manager, Kate Hefel; director of marketing, Louis Bavaro; associate artistic director, Tyler Marchant. Presented by Primary Stages, Casey Childs, founder and executive producer; Andrew Leynse, artistic director; Elliot Fox, managing director. At 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, between Park and Madison Avenues; (212)279-4200. Through Oct. 30. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Danai Gurira, who wrote ''In the Continuum'' with Nikkole Salter, plays a Zimbabwean woman whose life is changed by an H.I.V. diagnosis. (Photo by Richard Termine for The New York Times)(pg. E7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); WRITERS (76%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); THEATER (58%) Theater; Reviews

PERSON: Charles Isherwood; Danai Gurira; Nikkole Salter; Robert O'hara

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) ZIMBABWE (93%); AFRICA (90%); UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2005



197 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 380 words

 BODY:
WHAT ABOUT GALBRAITH? -- The winner of this year's Nobel in economics is being announced today, and there are candidates aplenty. One giant of the field, John Kenneth Galbraith, below, who administered price controls under Franklin D. Roosevelt and who will turn 97 on Saturday, has never received the honor. His most recent work, ''The Economics of Innocent Fraud,'' was published last year. 
 TRADE PARLEY -- The United States is playing host to trade ministers from 15 World Trade Organization members today in the hope of reaching a breakthrough accord on national subsidies to farmers, long a bone of contention between Washington and the European Union. Rob Portman, the trade representative, is hoping for a consensus on reducing subsidies and taking other market-opening measures. He is also expected to meet the European Union trade commissioner, Peter Mandelson, to talk about another enduring trade dispute, European subsidies to Airbus.
ENOUGH ABOUT INTEREST RATES -- Let's talk about exchange rates -- specifically, the reluctance of China's leaders to loosen the yuan's link to the dollar. Treasury Secretary John W. Snow and Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, head to Beijing, first to take part in meetings of finance ministers and central bank presidents, starting tomorrow. Then, on Sunday, Mr. Snow and Mr. Greenspan will open talks with Chinese officials on economic issues, notably American demands that the yuan be allowed to appreciate more rapidly against the dollar. The Treasury has postponed the release of a report on global currency practices and abuses, originally due out Saturday, until the two men return home.
 OH, ALL RIGHT, LET'S TALK ABOUT INTEREST RATES, TOO -- With inflation worries unnerving the markets last week, Friday is shaping up as a day of portents for the Fed's evolving interest rate policy. The Consumer Price Index for September will be released in the morning, and if it contains worse-than-expected news, brace yourself for turmoil in early trading. August's trade deficit will be reported on Thursday.
 EARNINGS SPOTLIGHT -- The third-quarter earnings season is under way. This week will feature Alcoa today, Apple and Merrill Lynch tomorrow, Johnson & Johnson and Monsanto on Wednesday and General Electric on Friday.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 11, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A report in the Looking Ahead column of Business Day yesterday about companies that are scheduled to report third-quarter results this week included one erroneously. Merrill Lynch has not disclosed its date.

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); INFLATION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (63%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); AIRBUS SAS (56%); ALCOA INC (52%); MONSANTO CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (63%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); AAI (ASX) (52%); AA (NYSE) (52%); MON (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (63%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (56%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (52%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (52%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (52%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (52%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (52%)

PERSON: PETER MANDELSON (56%); ROB PORTMAN (54%); ALAN GREENSPAN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (54%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (69%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2005



198 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

I.B.M. Plans Workplace Policy On Privacy of Genetic Information
Amid concerns that genetic information could become a modern tool of discrimination, I.B.M. plans to announce a new privacy policy covering the genetic data of its workers. [Page C1.]

Newspapers Face Economic and Societal Change
As newspapers confront flat ad revenues, rising costs and eroding circulation, their future is clouded by the rapid growth of the Internet. [C1.]

What the newspaper industry really needs is its own iPod -- a digital player for the eyes. David Carr. [C1.]

High Gas Prices Are a Boon to Internet Retailers
There's nothing like an energy squeeze to buoy the spirits of Internet merchants. Online shopping sites, already on a roll, are getting help from the high price of gasoline, which is prompting untold numbers of consumers to boot up their PC's instead of driving their S.U.V.'s to the mall. Matt Hyde, the senior vice president for merchandising and logistics at Recreational Equipment Inc., which operates REI.com, says it benefits in two ways: consumers are more likely to turn to the Web site, and they buy more bike-related products to avoid using gas. [C4.]

Delphi Filing Is a Challenge to Its Union
Delphi's bankruptcy filing will be a major test for the company's union, the United Auto Workers. [C1.]

Advertisers Are Told to Adapt to New Realities
At a conference of the Association of National Advertisers, speakers exhorted the more than 900 attendees to acknowledge and act on a new marketing reality: that major changes in consumer attitudes will require completely making over how products are advertised. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C7.]

Authors Identify a New Ideal Male for Marketers
The trend-spotting trio who popularized the term ''metrosexual'' say the new male ideal is now the ''ubersexual.'' [C7.]

Seventeen to Sponsor a Reality Show on MTV
Seventeen magazine has paired with MTV to produce a reality show with 17 young female contestants facing a series of challenges intended to test their characters. The contestants, ages 18 to 21, are judged based on their appearance, intelligence, loyalty and honesty. The winner, chosen during the last of the show's 10 episodes, gets an internship at Seventeen, a college scholarship and an appearance as the magazine's cover model. [C8.]

Music Industry in Japan Seeks IPod Fee
The music industry in Japan has asked the government there to charge a royalty that would be added to the price of portable digital music players. The fee, which will be probably be 2 to 5 percent of the retail price, would go to recording companies, songwriters and artists as compensation for lost revenue from home copying. [C4.]

Court Case Tests Anonymity of Bloggers
The Delaware Supreme Court has stated that plaintiffs ought to face high hurdles before being granted the right to strip anonymity from Internet posters -- even cranky, insulting ones. Tom Zeller Jr.: Link by Link. [C5.]

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RECORD REVENUES (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); MUSIC (87%); REALITY TELEVISION (86%); RECORD INDUSTRY (85%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (78%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (77%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (76%); GASOLINE PRICES (76%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (75%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); WRITERS (72%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (72%); WEB SITES (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (70%); SPONSORSHIP (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SONG WRITING (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT INC (69%); SEVENTEEN MAGAZINE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS (54%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451110 SPORTING GOODS STORES (69%); SIC5941 SPORTING GOODS STORES & BICYCLE SHOPS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (65%) JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2005



199 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Forget Blogs, Print Needs Its Own IPod

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR

 BODY:
SOMETIMES what appears to be a threat is actually a life preserver. 
 The poor defenseless music industry cowered -- then prosecuted -- when the monster of digital downloads came lurching over the horizon. Then the iPod came along and music looks like a business again -- a smaller business, eked out in 99- cent units -- but still a business.
Cable channels were supposed to gut network television, but instead have become a place where shows like ''Seinfeld'' and ''Law and Order'' are resold and rewatched. The movie industry reacted to DVD's as though they were a sign of the imminent apocalypse, and now studios are using their libraries to churn profits. 
 Which brings us to the last of the great analog technologies, the one many of you are using right now.
 The newspaper business is in a horrible state. It's not that papers don't make money. They make plenty. But not many people, or at least not many on Wall Street, see a future in them. In an attempt to leave the forest of dead trees and reach the high plains of digital media, every paper in the country is struggling mightily to digitize its content with Web sites, blogs, video and podcasts. 
 And they are half right. Putting print on the grid is a necessity, because the grid is where America lives. But what the newspaper industry really needs is an iPod moment. 
 According to a nifty piece of polling, directed by Bob Papper of Ball State University in Muncie, Ind., and released last week, average Americans spend more time online, on the phone, punching the remote, the radio and the game console than they do sleeping -- a total of nine hours a day. And much of the time, they are using more than one medium simultaneously, answering e-mail messages while returning calls with a TV buzzing in the background.
 For all the print newspaper's elegance -- it is a very portable, searchable technology -- it has some drawbacks. A paper is a static product in a dynamic news age, and while every medium is after eyeballs, the industry has to take that quite literally. You cannot read this story while driving in your car -- which is how most of America commutes -- and you cannot have it on in the background. America is hooked on ''companion'' media, a pet platform that sits in the corner and pays attention to you when you pay attention to it.
 No wonder that print is taking a hit. In the Ball State study, the Internet in all of its incarnations beat out reading print materials in all forms in every age bracket up to 65. 
 Print's anachronisms, whether it is the last-mile delivery, the slaying of forests, or the sale of thick packages that most consumers use only small slices of, make change inevitable once a better answer is available. 
 Consider if the line between the Web and print matter were erased by a device for data consumption, not data entry -- all screen, no baggage -- that was uplinked and updated constantly: a digital player for the eyes, with an iTunes-like array of content available at a ubiquitous volume and a low, digestible price. 
 Sure, there are tablet PC's and so-called viewpads out there, but they need to boot every time they are used -- they are just computers without keyboards. The iPod was not a new kind of CD player, it was a new way of listening to music. And the dangling white headphones became something that brought joy to the ears and also cachet to the wearer.
 ''There are all sorts of devices coming along,'' said Dick Brass, who built the first spelling checker that worked and a format for e-books for Microsoft. ''When something is good enough and close enough to paper for people to say, 'I want to use this,' then things will change quickly as they have with the iPod.''
 Newspapers might live long on such devices, but again, there are hurdles, some technical, some economic.
 ''It looks simple to come up with a tablet that works, but it is not,'' said Esther Dyson, a consultant on digital issues. ''In order to have the power and portability you need, you need power. The screen is the part of the device that uses the most power.'' 
 Mr. Brass and others have suggested that superthin lithium batteries will do the trick, or that the power source can be built into the spine of a fold-out two-page device.
 But even when such a gadget is finally in a form consumers will glom onto, newspapers will have to fight for space and mindshare. And it is axiomatic thus far that online customers are much lower-margin customers than print customers. Because there is no scarcity of ad space on the Web, you cannot charge nearly so much for a banner ad on a page with millions of hits as you can for a double-page spread in a national paper. 
 The real peril of the industry has been the uncoupling of the editorial model -- still salient if the Hurricane Katrina coverage is any indication -- from the business model, which relies in part on classified advertising. The Web gives classifieds a functionality that print will never match. (Thank you, Craigslist.) And everybody knows consumers on the Web do not want to pay for what they can get free, right?
 Maybe not. As iTunes has demonstrated, there is a vast swath of consumers who are willing to pay for what they want and avoid the moral taint of unauthorized use.
 There is already a crisscross of intention on the part of the current content providers. The primary gesture of Google and Yahoo -- search is actually content -- is now being woven with video, paid columnists and, ye gads, even some reporters. Television networks are beginning to explore whether people would pay for an on-demand version of their product. Blogs are federating into verticals of quality to be sold to advertisers. Broadcast radio worries about competition from satellite radio while satellite wonders if it can get people to unplug their iPods. 
 That is the future that newspapers have to prepare for. Readers no longer care so much who you are, they just want to know what you know.
 That may sound grim for big media brands, the kind of proposition that will not provide enough cash flow to finance a squad of reporters examining what a hurricane left behind or venturing out onto the streets of Baghdad. But in a frantic age where the quality of the information can be critical, being a reliable news source humming away in everyone's backpack sounds just useful enough to be a business.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RECORD REVENUES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); MOBILE MEDIA (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); PODCASTING (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (76%); FILM DIRECTORS (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); NETWORK TELEVISION (71%); CABLE TELEVISION (71%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2005



200 of 669 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: Lincoln National Is Poised To Buy a Smaller Insurer

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER and ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
The Lincoln National Corporation, a midsize life insurance company, is in advanced talks to buy a smaller rival, Jefferson Pilot Financial, for about $7.5 billion, according to people briefed on the transaction. 
 The deal, which could be announced as early as today, may be presented as a merger of equals, despite the disparity in size.
Lincoln, with assets of $91.7 billion, compared with $29.5 billion for Jefferson, is expected to pay a premium of about 10 percent over Jefferson's closing price on Friday of $50.79 a share. And Jon A. Boscia, the chief executive of Lincoln, is expected to take charge of the combined companies. People briefed on the transaction cautioned that negotiations had not yet been completed and that the talks could still collapse. 
 Spokesmen for the companies did not return phone calls for comment, but other industry executives said that midlevel executives at Lincoln had been instructed to call brokerage houses and other distributors of Lincoln's products as early as Monday to inform them of the merger. 
 Lincoln, which is based in Philadelphia, reported earnings of $707 million on revenue of $5.4 billion last year. Jefferson Pilot, whose main offices are in Greensboro, N.C., had net income of $546 million on $4.1 billion in revenue. Both companies have been in business for nearly 100 years.
 Last fall, Mr. Boscia signaled his intention to use acquisitions to move Lincoln up from the unheralded range of midsize companies. After the merger, Lincoln, which is already a leader in the sale of variable annuities (a combination of mutual funds and insurance), would rise in a merger from 16th to 12th in the rankings of American insurance companies, with $121 billion in assets, according to the A.M. Best Company, a rating agency. 
 A merger would also put Lincoln in fifth place after Prudential Financial in the sale of life insurance, and raise it to fifth place after MetLife in the rankings for sales of fixed annuities, which provide a modest but steady return without taxation until the savings are withdrawn. 
 Industry specialists said a deal with Jefferson could add stability to Lincoln's earnings, which are volatile because of its emphasis on variable annuities and their fluctuations in the stock market. But the specialists said that Jefferson's heavy lineup of sluggish and, at the moment, underperforming fixed annuities and traditional life insurance could also slow the pace of Lincoln's growth. 
 Even after a merger with Jefferson, Lincoln would lag far behind the giants of life insurance in size. Analysts estimate the assets of MetLife, the largest of the companies focusing on life insurance, at more than $400 billion. And Lincoln and Jefferson would have a combined market value of $15.5 billion, compared with $36.6 billion for MetLife. 
 Both Lincoln and Jefferson, the industry specialists said, have posted shrinking earnings on fixed annuities and traditional life insurance as interest rates have fallen. With those products, the insurers typically contracted to provide a return to investors of 3 percent or 4 percent. 
 The insurers aimed to earn much more by investing the premiums they received for the annuities and life insurance. But lower market interest rates have made that impossible. 
 Industry specialists said Jefferson Pilot had been looking for a merger partner for more than three years because its earnings have been stagnant and its ability to compete has been limited by its smaller size. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); LIFE INSURANCE (90%); MERGERS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ANNUITIES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); DIVESTITURES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) Life Insurance; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: LINCOLN NATIONAL CORP (96%); METLIFE INC (86%); A M BEST CO INC (65%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Lincoln National Corp; Jefferson-Pilot Corp

TICKER: LNC (NYSE) (96%); MET (NYSE) (86%); PRU (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (96%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (96%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (86%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (86%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (86%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (86%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (86%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (65%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (65%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (53%)

PERSON: Joseph B Treaster; Andrew Ross Sorkin

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (55%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2005

 
